ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Monika Gregorčič, Janez Janša, Dr. Anže Logar, Jože Tanko from 17:00 on, Predrag Baković from 14:00 to 18:00, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Franc Jurša until 2 p.m., Ferenc Horváth from 1 p.m. to 3.30 p.m., Iva Dimic from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Primož Siter and others. Franz Runk by 5 p.m. I welcome all those present once again! With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to 18. At the end of the day, it's for a re-decision on the law on non-profit mediation. At its 1st extraordinary meeting on 27 March 2018, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly decide again on the Real Estate Intermediation Act before the announcement. In order to explain the request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Matija Gorenščku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, Members and other guests! The reasons why the State Council voted veto on the Real Estate Intermediation Act are described in the material for today’s session, but allow me to summarize them briefly. The first reason is in the way of drafting a new law. In 2014, members of the Association of Real Estate Mediation Companies, Minister Irena Majcen, informed that important amendments to the Real Estate Intermediation Act were urgently needed. The Minister suggested that only the association should draw up an expert proposal for amendments and forward it to the Ministry. In this way, they formed a special expert group which, following the example of the legislation of other European countries, notably Austria, Germany and Croatia, prepared a new proposal for a law. In early 2016, the expert group also met with representatives of the market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and most of the solutions were also aligned with them. In May 2016, the proposal was finalised and as such forwarded to the Ministry. The Ministry then sent a draft law to the public debate at the end of June 2017, and the association replied to it within a period of time, as the draft law contained a number of amendments to their proposal, which they did not agree with. This was later followed by a new version of the draft. This version clearly put the first proposal on the head and it happened that the association of its law no longer recognized it, as it did not follow their basic proposals. In December, the Ministry submitted a proposal for a law to the Government and forwarded it through the Government into a further legislative procedure, where it was also adopted. In short, as a Chamber for Real Estate Intervention, they have asked the State to amend the law with the aim of abolishing anomalies in the old law and, as a result, after four years have been given a law that is contrary to the desired proposals, i.e. a new law that is worse than the previous one. The main substantive problem with the law is that it introduces regulation in the area of real estate transport where it is unnecessary. The regulation shall be introduced by the third paragraph of Article 27, which limits the actual costs of real estate. The proposal also prevents a different agreement between the parties in the procedure, so we believe that it is constitutionally incoherent because it restricts the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of economic initiative. It is also unnecessary to regulate the provision referred to in Article 23, paragraph 3, limiting the amount of the commission to be paid for the transfer of rental property to a maximum of one month’s rent. The law therefore introduces market regulation in real estate transactions, which is contrary to the practice of deregulation in all other areas of trade. The law regulates this activity where there is no mandatory participation of a real estate intermediary in transport, so transactions can also be concluded without them for transport, which citizens do very rarely or never in life. Many real estate transactions are of an investment character. When it comes to investment, it means that such investment is in a deprived position compared to other forms of investment when investments in securities, investment gold, art, as this market is not regulated. It is unusual to regulate the real estate market while the deregulated market for the sale of basic food goods such as heating or other basic necessities is. In short, market regulation in this area is totally unnecessary and is harmful to the functioning of the market and to the safety of citizens and the country, as it will negatively affect the legal security of citizens and significantly increase the number of disputes. It is also harmful for the country, as some real estate agencies will refuse to do business due to non-profitability, which will result in lower turnover for real estate companies and consequently lower inflows to the state treasury. The third problem is the intention of the State to deregulation an area that is in the interest of all stakeholders. With the new law, the state wants to abolish the compulsory supplementary training of real estate intermediaries, which is now prescribed every five years. The introduction of this obligation is the reason why the situation in this area has improved dramatically over the past ten years. It does not make sense for us to deregulation an area that introduces greater expertise in the work of real estate intermediaries and thus increases consumer safety. In view of all the above, we propose to the members of the National Assembly that they reject such a law and thus give the opportunity for stakeholders, together with the Minister, to prepare a new law that will be acceptable to both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you for your position. I now give the floor to Mr Edward Paulic, Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, which is the working body of the mother. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is sitting in session 7. 11. 2018 as a parent labour body treated the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Real Estate Intermediation Act. State Councillor Mitja Gorenšček pointed out in a more extensive explanation, among others, that the State Council's request for re-decision was based on the assessment that the way in which the draft law was prepared and the way in which the law was examined was not harmonised and the content of the law was inadequate and unclear. The key reason for the request is non-conclusion with the solutions provided for in Articles 23 and 27. Both provisions constitute a restriction on a free economic initiative without a valid reason. It also stressed that the abolition of compulsory supplementary training of real estate intermediaries is certainly harmful for all stakeholders in the long term. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Aleš Prijon, stressed that the reasons for the adoption of the new law were insufficient level of consumer protection and insufficient legal certainty. The law provides for a 4 % limitation on the payment to be made on the value of the property which is the subject of the intervention and remains at the same level as laid down in the law currently in force. The maximum allowable payment for intervention in a rental relationship of one month’s rent shall also be determined. The law, on the one hand, removes the restriction on payment for intervention in the conclusion of economic contracts and, on the other hand, still regulates payment for intervention in the purchase and sale of real estate of natural persons. With regard to the abolition of compulsory supplementary education of real estate intermediaries, however, he explained that the Ministry of Environment and Space had not found substantial reasons to condition the duration of the authorisation with compulsory supplementary education. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that one of the objectives of the law is to protect the public interest with a priority objective of protecting the contracting authority and that the purpose of the concrete solution is to prevent abuses that have occurred in practice. It assesses that there is a reasonable reason for such an arrangement, which, in accordance with a consistent constitutional judgment, is necessary to determine how the right to a free economic initiative is exercised. The rights acquired against legal proceedings with retroactive effect shall be protected by Article 155 of the Constitution. The law has no retroactive effect and there is no transitional provision in Article 45. The representative of the Levica Group expressed support for the request of the State Council and stressed that they would not support the law this time, as it represents a major deregulation of real estate intervention in favour of real estate companies. Many amendments in the form of amendments have already been proposed at the time of the adoption of the law, a large majority of which have not been adopted. Among other things, they proposed reintroduction of compulsory supplementary education for real estate intermediaries, and their proposal to increase fines for real estate operators was not supported, and they do not have a licence to do so, as well as a proposal to delete the possibility that the real estate companies have fiduciary accounts where the money of the contracting authorities is kept. In the SMC Group, they stressed that they support the law because it introduces greater security for consumers and solves certain problems that have in practice arisen in the implementation of the law so far in force. It is clear from the request of the State Council that the main problem is the provisions on the limitation of payments or the charging of costs in the transfer. The payment provided for in this Act is considered sufficient. Following the discussion, the Committee voted on the view that the Real Estate Intermediation Act was appropriate. The vote was 9 and 4 against. However, as the adoption of the opinion requires the majority of the votes of all the members and members of the Committee, i.e. 10, the Committee has not adopted the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Aleš Prijon, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, receives the text. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a real estate transfer law provides a new legal framework for the operation of real estate companies. The reasons for the adoption of the new law or the new regulation of real estate mediation are still at an insufficient level of consumer interest protection and insufficient or insufficient legal security for both consumers and real estate companies. We would like to point out that most of the difficulties in implementing the current law have been met by respect for the safe and sound operation of real estate companies, notably in identifying and informing the contracting authority of the legal and factual state of the property. On the basis of that proposal, the legislative text contains principles to be followed by all stakeholders in real estate. Thus, before concluding the real estate contract, the real estate company will have to verify the legal and factual status of the real estate and the contracting entity and also give written notice to the third party of any legal or other real estate errors. The real estate company shall be liable to the customer and to third parties for damage caused by legal or real errors resulting from the suspension of the obligation to verify the real estate and the warning of errors if it knew or should have known about the errors. The proposal protects consumers equally with regard to the limitation of payment against intervention of up to 4 % of the value of the property being transferred and remains at the same level as laid down in the applicable Real Estate Intermediation Act. The limitation of the payment for intervention in the conclusion of economic contracts is abolished for the purpose of releasing the intervention on the real estate market and for the sake of the freedom of the economic initiative. In this part, the Government, as a proponent, also follows the deregulation obligation laid down by the Internal Market Services Directive, while for the sake of consumer protection it proposes an exception and still regulates the payment for intervention in the purchase and sale of real estate of natural persons. Probably the most important novelty for consumers is to agree on the duration of the intervention contract and to regulate the exclusive intervention contract. The proposal also provides for a new procedure for the acquisition and termination of a real estate broker’s licence, and for the suspension of compulsory supplementary training of real estate intermediaries in accordance with the deregulation of professions. Finally, the proposal followed the principle of deregulation of the professions of a real estate intermediary, regulation of economic contracts, effective supervision, regulation of criminal provisions and, above all, greater legal certainty for consumers. Much effort has been made in the drafting of the law, coordination between conflicting positions of different interests and we consider the proposed law to be a good result of this process. That is why we appeal to you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. We are moving on to the views of the parliamentary groups. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of the Left, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The Real Estate Intermediation Act is a lobbyist law. It was outraged by the Chamber for Real Estate Intermediation; they also praised their achievements in the electronic communications sent by the parliamentary groups during the previous term. But the thing got complicated, she had an absurd turnaround. As the representative of the Council of State has already said before me, they have reconsidered in the Chamber for Real Estate Intermediation after the committee’s consideration and have withdrawn their support for the law. The reason for the withdrawal of support is that the Committee has adopted amendments which the Real Estate Chamber considers to be unconstitutional. It is against the Constitution to limit the additional costs that real estate intermediaries may charge at commissions. The anti-constitutional restriction of commissions that may be earned in the transfer of property rentals. All these things were supposed to be unconstitutional and went so far as to reach the procrastination veto of the State Council. In Levica, we agree with the Real Estate Intermediation Chamber on one thing, and this is that the law is still inadequate. However, not because of the alleged unconstitutionalities that they are talking about, but because of what has been left in the law despite corrections on the committee. The main purpose of this law is to deregulation of real estate transactions, which will result in the deterioration of consumer protection in the purchase and sale of real estate. The law thus, for example, abolishes compulsory supplementary education for real estate intermediaries, thus deregulation of the profession. As we know, deregulation of professions is one of the simplest ways of employers, at least those who have leverage on legislators to absorb the costs of their labour. The law further introduces the possibility for real estate companies to establish their fiduciary accounts on which they store the money of the contracting authorities. Today, only lawyers and notaries can accept the money of their clients for feeding, but they are subject to strict supervision. However, the law does not define control over fiduciary accounts to be managed by real estate intermediaries. The law does not say at any point why it introduces this possibility. Furthermore, fines for persons engaged in real estate transactions who do not have licences for them are laid down so low that they lose any deterrent effect. The highest envisaged fine is only EUR 5,000, which is, say, a value that can be earned by one single business when the commission is limited to 4% of the real estate broker. And lastly, the law provides that a real estate company is entitled to commission even in cases where its contracting entity finds the buyer. In other words, they took the right to payment even if their contracting authority sought the buyer or tenant for its property. Under the line, the current law isn't optimal, and I'd need a recast. In particular, this part, which has been introduced into the new amendment law, would require restrictions on commissions, additional costs and so on on real estate intermediaries. However, all the other things that I have now listed in the new law — from deregulation of the real estate broker’s profession, the introduction of fiduciary accounts for real estate agencies to extremely low fines for those carrying out real estate transactions without a licence, and finally the right for real estate agencies to take the commission, even if the contracting entity finds itself a buyer or a tenant of real estate — are the reasons why we cannot support this law in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Aleksander Reberšek has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! In Novi Slovenija we opposed the adoption of the Real Estate Intermediation Act in March this year, and we will not change our position today. Our basic guide is a social market economy based on the principles of freedom, efficiency, responsibility and solidarity. The State must ensure conditions for competitiveness while ensuring effective and transparent control over the legality of economic activities. Healthy competition is a condition for better work, it is a driver of development and therefore the country in the social market economy has an obligation to protect such competition. The new Real Estate Intermediation Act, in our view, means the opposite. It means unnecessary market regulation where it is not necessary and deregulation where regulation is welcome. The law thus limits the amount of actual costs that real estate companies can charge to customers. To think logically, the actual costs incurred by the real estate company as an intermediary cannot be limited if they are indeed incurred. This means that we limit them only to artificial, administrative. If a person with a real estate agent freely agrees on the amount of payment for the service provided and is satisfied with it, why would the State then set a ceiling for his payment. Such behaviour limits the constitutionally guaranteed free economic initiative. The same considerations apply with regard to limiting the maximum payment when transferring to rental contracts. It is also illogical and, in terms of maintaining the professional competence of real estate intermediaries, to abolish their now mandatory supplementary training every five years. An intermediary who fails to train and train in his field of work will return in the long term, as the contracting authorities will most feel. It is a matter of lowering the applicable standards that ensure professionalism and better work. If the law wants to protect the interests of consumers, as stated by the Government, then it should not be allowed to do so. In our view, the Real Estate Intermediation Act does not bring additional value to consumers or real estate companies. According to the above, in New Slovenia we oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ivan Hršak has a position on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! In the Desus Group, we are concerned about the amendment of the Real Estate Intermediation Act, as it brings greater legal certainty to both consumers and real estate companies, according to our assessment, if compared to the law in force. The Real Estate Intermediation Chamber obviously has a very strong influence in the State Council, which we know is a representative of interest groups and not citizens. It is therefore also understandable that the State Council defends the interests of the Real Estate Chamber and not of consumers. As a result, however, the requirement for re-decision on an already approved law is a matter for re-decision. According to our assessment, it would make sense for the law to be reconfirmed, for there are many more protections for consumers than in the current one, although some argue quite the opposite. We must be aware that the consumer has, in particular, less knowledge than real estate companies and is a weaker customer in legal traffic with real estate, for example, the Ministry has decided to limit fees and costs. In the event that the transaction was not concluded, the inspectorate’s findings have shown that it has been nearly as much a commission as it would have been if the transaction had been concluded. As a harmful provision of the law, the State Council assesses the abolition of compulsory education for real estate intermediaries. It is understandable that the Real Estate Chamber opposes termination, since this additional education is carried out by the specifically mentioned Chamber – of course against payment. The Ministry of Additional Education has not banned further education, but has abolished its obligation to this profession since 2008. There is a national professional qualification that requires higher professional education and, according to the Ministry's assessment, ensures that the real estate intermediary works professionally. In addition, the deregulation of professions was proposed by the European Commission and not by the Ministry. There is therefore a need for additional education, but it does not necessarily have to be prescribed by law. We must not forget that the proposal for a law at the competent ministry has been coordinated with different stakeholders, such as the Consumer Union, the Market Inspectorate and the Real Estate Intermediation Chamber. Since the interests of consumers and real estate intermediaries are at odds with several issues, full harmonisation of the proposal has not been possible. The ministry has, we must admit, focused more on the protection of the public interest and consumer interest, as these are a weaker party in relation to real estate companies. Since in the Desus Group we still believe that the state must protect the weaker, and according to our assessment of the amendment of the Real Estate Intermediation Act, this will also allow this, this time we will also support the proposal of the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u14	President, thank you for your word. The purpose of the law is to regulate in detail the area of real estate services primarily with a view to ensuring the protection of participants in real estate transport, thereby raising the quality of the provision of real estate services. The fundamental principle of the bill is ensuring effective consumer protection. Effective consumer protection is the basic reason for regulating services in the real estate transfer market. The position of the Slovenian National Party is that we are against the adoption of this law and we fully agree with the comments of the Council of State. The consequences of implementing such a law will be far-reaching and negative for all who use it. Moreover, there is no reason for the adoption of the law to rush because the market is functioning normally. It's a bad marriage, so we won't support it. It needs to be completely rearranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Pavšič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. A few days ago, we discussed the construction law, which is also slightly intertwined by this redecision. For various reasons, the Council of State proposes re-decision on the law and proposes its rejection. However, there are no proposals to amend Article 26, which states that a real estate company and a real estate intermediary must, in an appropriate manner, inform the contracting authority of any circumstances relevant to the establishment of a real estate contract. We believe that the proposed solutions, which are in law and which limit the actual cost of 4% of the property value, are justified as they actually protect contractually weaker customers, i.e. natural persons, and prevent abuse in practice, not only in the area of purchase, but also in the area of rental of real estate. In our view, the restriction of the maximum allowed payment for the intervention of real estate constitutes a restriction on the freedom of economic initiative. According to the solutions provided by law, in the LMŠ Group we believe that the law is appropriate and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Prednik has the floor on behalf of the SD Group. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u18	President, Government representatives, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia is at its 1st extraordinary session of 27. 3. 2018 passed a request for the National Assembly to decide again on the Real Estate Intermediation Act. In his request for re-decision, the Council of State pointed out that it did not agree with the proposed text, as the law would bring a number of problems to the market. In their view, these problems would be caused by unclear provisions of the law and the law would have a negative impact on the legal security of all stakeholders in real estate. In the opinion of the Council of State, this law is intended to significantly increase the number of judicial and out-of-court disputes and the provisions of the law are intended to affect the rights already acquired. In this place, I should like to remind you immediately that the Law and Law Service has immediately rejected the last mentioned statement by the State Council. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stated that the Real Estate Intermediation Act constitutes a new legal framework for the operation of real estate companies, as real estate intervention is still at an insufficient level of consumer interest protection. Moreover, consumer security and real estate companies are still insufficient. Social Democrats are of the view that the Real Estate Intermediation Act needs to be reaffirmed, as it would only contribute to legal solutions that guarantee greater legal certainty for all players in real estate transport. The protection of the consumer, the limitation of the ceiling on the amount of costs that a real estate company could charge to its client, the clear rules on the rights of real estate companies to be paid for the transfer, the establishment of a central electronic record, the determination of obligations for real estate companies and the determination of the amount of fines that would enable effective inspection, are only a few of the solutions set out in the Real Estate Intermediation Act that will increase the level of consumer and real estate security. With renewed support for this law, and consequently with the adoption of the Real Estate Intermediation Act, in the opinion of our Group of Members, we will improve the position of the consumer, which is the most important. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will once again support the Real Estate Intermediation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Gregor Perič, you have the floor on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u20	President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have a re-decision on the Real Estate Intermediation Act, which was adopted by the National Assembly in the previous term. The basic objective of the law was to regulate the area of real estate intervention in a way that all parties present in this relationship would enjoy legal certainty. The main part of the law is therefore intended for safe and prudential solutions. However, the reasons for the new regulation of real estate intermediation stem from the insufficient level of consumer interest protection and the lack of legal certainty of consumers as well as of real estate companies. In practice, it has been shown that there have been difficulties in double-counting the payment for transmission, carrying out brokerage transactions without a licence, imposing a third party intervention contract, facilitating real estate inspection by concluding an intervention contract, difficulties in representing the sale of the investor’s real estate through intermediary companies, advertising and could also be listed. The Law on Real Estate Intermediation introduces the principle of consumer protection, introduces clear rules in which the real estate company has the right to payment for intervention, establishes the obligations of the real estate company which it has within the framework of an intervention, introduces the possibility of concluding exclusive intervention contracts and limits on the duration of such a contract, detailed procedures for obtaining and terminating the licence and for obtaining the status of the real estate intermediary, lays down the obligations of the investor with regard to the sale of real estate which it builds for the market, limits the ceiling on the actual costs of the real estate company which it may charge when it is not entitled to pay for the transaction, and establishes a central electronic record containing the necessary information to be made available to the public in respect of the registered real estate intermediaries. Within the framework of the inspection, the possibility of charging fines within the range shall be regulated and the amount of fines shall be determined to allow effective inspection. Today we have already heard parties that advocate more deregulation or less deregulation or more regulation and less regulation. In SMC we advocate more protection for customers or consumers, because we know that the buyer, if lucky, buys property once in a lifetime. There is a need for regulation, since in the past we have witnessed a number of real estate transactions where the buyers have briefly withdrawn. In the SMC Group, when adopting the law in the previous mandate, we stressed that it is high time to adopt legal solutions that ensure greater legal certainty for the transport of real estate and thus improve the quality of the provision of real estate services. We take the same position this time, and because we assess that the law improves the situation of consumers or contracting authorities, we support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision on that law will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Ms State Secretary Natalija Kovac Jereb.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u22	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The bill before you amends and complements the Law on corporate income tax with the two institutions set out in the Directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices that directly affect the functioning of the internal market. The Directive is hereby referred to as the ATAD Directive. The institutions are a general rule on the prevention of abuse or GAAR and a rule on the control of foreign companies or CFC rules that are transposed and represent part of the rules included in the ATAD Directive with the aim of combating tax abuse, providing single taxation and supporting a better business environment in the internal market. For a broader framework, however, we explain that, due to the emergence of the economic crisis in 2008, the international organisation OECD and G20, as well as the European Union, have encouraged them to adopt such measures or recommendations in the field of international taxation, which will on the one hand ensure that the tax is paid where profits are generated and, on the other hand, trust in the fairness of tax systems and thus enable governments to exercise their tax sovereignty effectively. These objectives have been translated into concrete recommendations at OECD level in the framework of a project to prevent erosion of the tax base and to redirect profits called BEPS. In order to implement the BEPS measures, the ATAD Directive was adopted in the field of corporate taxation. The GAAR Regulation or Institute is a general rule on the prevention of abuses not yet known by the applicable system of corporate income tax. GAAR is also involved in the fight against tax abuse practices in order to cover as wide a range of situations as possible which may lead to an abuse of a particular tax system, the rule being applied as the last rule, that is, when other tax rules no longer apply. The GAAR rule also covers all taxable persons under corporate income tax, but it follows from the content of the measure that the rule is aimed primarily at domestic and foreign multinational companies which, through their related persons, can structure schemes in a way that does not reflect the economic purpose of the business. The objective of this structured scheme is to obtain either the tax advantage or the tax benefit offered by the existing tax system or to make use of inconsistencies between the tax systems of individual countries. The essence of the GAAR Institute is to assess whether a legal transaction has a real economic purpose or whether it is a genuine business in the light of all the relevant facts and circumstances. This should also take into account the fact that the GAAR rule also has a preventive effect on aggressive tax planning. From the point of view of the European Union, uniform implementation and development of domestic and foreign case-law, which will shape the content of the terms at the GAAR Institute, is essential to ensure tax certainty. The second institute in the proposed novel is a rule on controlled foreign companies, this is a rule of CFC. This rule provides that the profits of a controlled foreign company, a related taxable person, are included in the taxable person’s tax base in the taxable person’s tax income, which is not sufficiently taxed or exempt under the jurisdiction of a controlled foreign company. The rule applies if the corporate income tax actually paid by this supervised foreign company is less than half of the corporate income tax that this supervised company had to pay if it were a taxable person in Slovenia. The latter means that the non-distributed income of CFC, established in a tax-favoured jurisdiction, will be taxed, namely that income consists primarily of passive income. In this context, it should also be noted that the CFC rule will apply only when the transfer price institution does not sufficiently prevent revenue spills into more favourable tax jurisdictions. It is concluded that the Government supports the amendments tabled by the Finance Committee to the draft law. In view of the above, the Government proposes to support the draft law to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you for your position, Madam Secretary of State. Mr Robert Polnar will speak as Chairman of the Committee on Finance, which is the working body of the mother. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its 2nd meeting, on 6 November 2018, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 12th meeting on 12 October this year that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Committee received the following materials as input for the meeting: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 23 October this year and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council of 26 October this year. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups on Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5. A representative and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Service and the Council of State took part in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives, principles and main solutions to the bill. It clarified that the transposition of the two institutions set out in the Council of Europe Directive of 12 July 2016 laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market. It is a matter of transposition of these Directives into the Slovenian legal order. It pointed out that the Institute should be transferred by 31 December of this year and should apply as from 1 January 2019. It further detailed the reasons for the adoption of measures in this area, both institutions, their scope and effects in terms of combating tax abuse and supporting a better business environment in the internal market. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly pointed out that the directive, which was supposed to be implemented in the Slovenian legal order, was almost literally a copy of what they had pointed out in their written opinion. Such a transposition of the Directive meant that the legal and legislative services were problematic in particular from a constitutional point of view. The representative of the Council of State stressed that the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supported the bill's proposal, as it was supposed to be a step towards regulating the tax environment. However, he drew attention to some of the concerns about the assessment of the financial effects of the draft law. The discussion focused on the indications of the Legislative and Legal Service regarding the potentially constitutionally disputed provisions of the bill. In this context, the opinion was expressed that the National Assembly should not adopt rules which could in any way contain constitutionally contested provisions. A question was also raised as to the impact of the proposed law on the implementation of the Law on Development Support to the Pomur region in the period 2010-2019. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance provided further clarifications on the concerns expressed in the debate, in particular on the specific application of the provisions of the proposed law under consideration and their actual effect. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the DZ Rules of Procedure, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are moving on to the views of the parliamentary groups. Mr Jožef Horvat will be the first to speak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you very much, distinguished Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! As with some other bills recently dealt with by the Committee on Finance, this proposal for a law is also being dealt with under an urgent procedure. However, the justification is similar to that of the other proposals. The proposal for a law shall be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the two institutes set out in the Directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices of 12 July 2016. This is the institute to be used with effect from 1 January 2019. The latter means that the Institute must be transferred by 31 December 2018 at the latest. In this case, too, time constraints resolve the use of an emergency procedure, for which the government certainly deserves criticism. While in New Slovenia we support the objectives of the directive, which focus mainly on preventing tax evasion in the internal market and redirecting profits from the internal market, often due to double taxation or undertaxation. Regrettably, however, the implementation of the transposition of the rules that pursue these objectives in the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is inadequate. This has also been highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service, which warns that we cannot implement the directive simply by means of its literal legislation in the articles of Slovenian law. The Directive, as a legal act of the European Union, refers to the Member States of the European Union and the law applies to persons under national jurisdiction, so often we cannot implement the directive simply by means of a literal copy of its text, but it takes much more effort and adaptation to the provisions of our Slovenian legislation. The Legal and Legislative Service further notes that the content of the Directive must be implemented in the legal order of the Member State of the European Union so that the legal provisions are operational and the law can be implemented. We have the highest concerns in this area: implementation of the law, operationality of the law. However, the text contains indeterminate, meaningfully open concepts that are not defined, without any substantive criteria on the basis of which it could be determined what they include. The Legislative and Legal Service also recalls the urgent compliance with Article 2 of the Constitution, or the principles of legal certainty, clarity and certainty of the rules resulting from the Constitution. The legislature considers that the proposal for a law to these cavaliers does not follow sufficiently. The Service also highlights the principle of legality under Article 120 of the Constitution and states that the proposed legal provisions should be more appropriate, since the provisions presented thus do not provide an adequate basis for the functioning of the competent authorities in the case of the issue of sub-legislative rules. At the time of the consideration of the proposal by the home labour body, the legislative and legal service assessed that the amendments that would resolve their essential comments had not been tabled. Due to the gravity of the legislative service's concerns and the fact that the government coalition has not responded to these concerns with appropriate amendments, in New Slovenia we cannot support the amendment of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Polnar, you have the floor on behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Amendments to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons bring two institutions into Slovenia's legal order that directly affect the functioning of the internal market. It is an institution which relates to the implementation of the general anti-abuse rule and rules on the supervision of foreign companies. Tax evasion is a legitimate way to reduce taxpayers' tax obligations by exploiting gaps, inconsistencies and inconsistencies in tax rules. The taxpayer always strives to reduce or eliminate the tax burden. His actions may be legal or illegal. Some of them do not affect the level of public revenues, while others reduce the level of public revenues. In countries with regulated tax systems, tax evasion in domestic business is quite rare and the phenomenon is quite common in international business. Developing countries have therefore paid great attention in recent decades to anti-tax avoidance measures. The prevention rule should have a preventive and, in particular, dissuasive effect on avoidance practices that have evolved in the field of corporate taxation. In particular, they have been identified in the field of cross-border business and international taxation. In view of the enforcement of this Act, it is expected that companies which abroad implement schemes for the purpose of abuse and avoidance of taxes will at least partially adapt their business operations or their investment firms. This means that the proposal of the law will prevent or restrict the structure of transactions in a way that would allow the tax not to be paid at all or that the taxpayer’s income would not be taxed. This will also ensure a basic tax principle, which is equal tax treatment of taxpayers in the same economic situation, which will help to reduce the unjustified competitive advantage. In the Desus Group we represent the view that it is crucial that we collect as much corporate income tax as possible in Slovenia. We condemn tax avoidance because it causes direct harm to citizens and citizens because it reduces funding for activities and investments, reduces budgetary revenues for the implementation of public services. This law will make tax avoidance impossible to a certain extent. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on corporate income tax for this very reason. However, we are not making any illusions that this is just one measure to prevent tax evasion and that similar measures will need to be taken at the level of the European Union and, consequently, at the level of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Ivanuša on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian National Party. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u30	Good-bye! President, thank you for your word. Ambassadors and MPs, Secretary of State with the team! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons by Emergency Procedure. The government sends him to the National Assembly because it is a difficult remedy for the functioning of the country. Two institutions in the Directive are indeed transposed in Slovenian law. This is the institute to be used with effect from 1 January 2019. It is a matter of establishing rules against tax avoidance practices that have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. It is a matter of implementing a general anti-abuse rule and rules on controlled foreign companies. The aim of the bill is to combat tax avoidance practices that affect the tax base of the country and the functioning of the internal market by rules which are common rules at the same time. The objective is to protect budgetary revenue from corporate income tax. The bill does not derogate from the basic principles on which the basic law is based, but the need to ensure that the tax is paid where profits and value are generated is stressed. The principles of the bill are fair and effective taxation. In addition, in conjunction with the newly proposed institutes, the prevention or elimination of double taxation is ensured. This is about transposition of EU legislation into national law. The government's impact assessment is that the overall impact of all changes under this bill on the revenue of the state budget will be positive. As regards the impact assessment, the proposal will not have significantly increased administrative implications in the proceedings or in the operations of the tax authority. The institutions set out in the bill are additional weapons that the tax authority will be able to use in preventing aggressive tax planning and tax abuse. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We're changing the law on corporate income tax. Why? Because there's supposed to be tax evasion. The law here and even the directive do not talk about whether it is legal or illegal evasion of taxes. The second issue, which this directive does not talk about, is the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the double taxation agreements that are more than 3,000 today. On the basis of these agreements, taxpayers, businesses – domestic, foreign, in whatever form they already have, are now planning fiscally. And these agreements are legal. This directive, which introduces enormous uncertainty into our tax system, is intended to limit or prevent so-called aggressive tax planning from attributable, for example, to a parent society in some proportion. However, if you look closely at the articles of the laws that are being amended or proposed, you can find that the tax administration will have many, if you want, arbitrary possibilities for interpreting these provisions, which will reduce the legal security of the taxpayers in Slovenia. This is also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service. This is also pointed out by many taxpayers when in fact the Financial Administration, with various opinions, which have not been published many times, taxes legal persons and, to a certain extent, natural persons. This is not the aim of having a transparent tax system in Slovenia, of course, but mainly in the direction of catching those taxpayers who, for such or other reasons, will not be interested in the financial administration or anyone who can influence the financial administration. By this legislation, which is a directive, and as the Legislative and Legal Service has already said that the directives are not copied but adapted, this legislation will reduce the legal security of taxpayers mainly because they will not know what and how to tax, but will simply leave it to the financial administration. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that it is necessary to make order in the field of corporate tax. The European Commission has been working on this for several decades and has failed. After all, it is weak in knowledge in this area. Much more knowledge is available to the OECD or the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in this field. That is also why the European Commission, by the way, is slightly undermining certain things from this organisation, then undermining itself a little bit in national legislation and then getting a simple conglomerate of tax rules that are legally unclear and allow not just one tax administration, but all the tax administrations of the 28 countries to interpret their own. For this reason, we also have an uneven system of taxation and tax practice in the field of corporate income tax. To some extent this law will change the way taxation is done, to some extent it will contribute to a more uniform interpretation, but it will in principle raise a number of questions. In the future, we recommend that the Government examine these directives more closely and that it actually adapts them to our legal order and to our tax environment. We will not oppose this directive in the Slovenian Democratic Party, nor will we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jože Lenart has the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues! The European Commission estimates that there are still many tax evasions, although much has been done in this area in recent years also in increasing good cooperation between the tax authorities of individual countries and countries of the European Union. The proposal for the amendment of the Law on corporate income tax in the Slovenian legal order brings two institutes of Directive 2016/1164 which describe the rules necessary to better protect fundamentals and prevent profits transfers. The essence of these rules is to prevent abuses and to act against tax avoidance practices. The novelty thus ensures coordinated action at European Union level and eliminates current inconsistencies in the functioning of tax rules and systems. The rate of tax avoidance has been the European Commission's rule for several years. The corporate income tax is one of the basic taxes of each government's budget. This is a very complex approach in calculating the base of taxation and requires thorough monitoring on the basis of the legislation adopted. The European Union has no direct role in collecting taxes and setting tax rates. The amount of tax to be paid by the State shall be determined by each State itself and not by the European Union. However, the European Union is monitoring national tax rules to ensure their compliance with certain policies of the European Union, such as promoting economic growth and creating new jobs, free movement of goods, services and capital in the European Union, ensuring that national companies have no more favourable position than competing companies from other countries, preventing discrimination against consumers, workers and businesses from other countries of the European Union. In the case of taxation of companies and personal income, the main task of the European Union is to ensure respect for the principles of discrimination and free movement in the single market. This requires more and more coordination at European Union level between all Member States, which also deal with addressing common challenges such as tax evasion. The European Union also has no say in how countries collect their revenue from taxes, but the economies of European countries are increasingly interdependent and countries with too much consumption and debt are threatening the economic growth of persons and the stability of the euro area. In order to reduce the risk, the European Union countries are working hard to harmonise their economic policies, taking into account the Commission's recommendations. Some of the recommendations also concern national tax policies that are supposed to be fairer, more efficient and more favourable to the economy. The single market allows free trade in goods and services across the European Union. In order to facilitate trade and avoid distortion of competition, the European Union countries agreed to harmonise their rules on the taxation of goods and services. The tax rules of one country should not allow citizens to avoid taxes in another country. In view of the cross-border nature of tax evasion and avoidance, action at European Union level is essential. In particular, the European Union is closely monitoring the taxation of companies. The legal loopholes between the tax systems of different countries allow some companies to use so-called aggressive tax planning to reduce their tax burden. The European Union wants to prevent such behaviour by testing the coordination and exchange of information between national tax administrations. The European Union countries must also ensure that their tax regimes are open and fair and are not designed by unfairly attracting companies from other countries of the European Union or by otherwise undermining the tax system of other countries. The European Union countries have therefore committed themselves to a code of conduct against such behaviour. We can conclude that it is very important for the State to exercise good control over the consistent and fair collection of taxes in order to prevent tax evasion and thus achieve a level playing field and competitiveness on the European Union's domestic and common market. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the Letters of Marjana Sharca, we will support the amendment of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Prednik, Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u36	One more good-bye to everyone. A week ago, we adopted amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. The reason was to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European directives which provide for additional rules in the field of taxation, aimed at simplifying the tax environment and preventing tax evasion, particularly for businesses operating in several countries' markets. Today, with the same set of rules, we also coordinate the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. In this area, too, we would like to prevent those who are committed to reducing their tax base by means of creative accounting and transferring their obligations between countries, or to transfer their obligation to where it is lower. Last week we expressed our support for the belief that the unification of tax rules between EU Member States means less senseless competition between Member States. Various rules allow companies operating on multiple markets to move their incomes and profits where tax treatment is more favourable and thus avoid paying taxes. The adoption of European directives is an important step in preventing such circumvention. The law thus brings new rules in line with the directives that prevent companies from so-called aggressive tax planning. This will take more into account the principle that the tax is paid in a country where profits are also made. Uniform expression and uniform practices across the EU will prevent differences between countries from being exploited for tax benefits while preventing the possibility of double taxation due to new rules. We will therefore support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Value Added Tax Act in the Group of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Mateja Udovč, Group of the Modern Centre Party. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u38	Your Honor! Today we are considering a law which, technically speaking, represents only the transposition of the two institutions set out in the Council of the European Union Directives laying down rules against tax avoidance practices that have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market in Slovenia's legal order. Nevertheless, we would like to point out in the SMC Group that Directive 2016/1164 requires Member States to write down certain rules in national legislation that prevent transactions or schemes by which the taxpayers have achieved non-taxation of their income. This is also followed by Slovenia. Therefore, a proposed amendment and additions have been tabled, allowing the tax authority to more effectively identify and sanction inappropriate tax practices. The discussion on the home working body focused mainly on the indications of the Legal and Legislative Service in relation to the way the Directive was transposed into the Slovenian legal order. In the debate, it was not enough to point out that the EU has launched a reform programme to ensure fair and effective taxation of the income of legal persons in the single market. Under this programme, Member States have responded to a common European approach to addressing external challenges for their tax bases, as the nature of the harmful tax competition and aggressive tax planning is global. The focus is on ensuring that profits generated in the internal market are effectively taxed where the activity is carried out. Aggressive tax planning means significant losses for all European taxpayers and not just for Slovenians. Loss of revenue from the spillover of profits is estimated at between €50 billion and €70 billion in the European Union alone. According to some estimates, the loss of global income is between 4% and 10% of total corporate tax revenue. Why should aggressive tax planning be curbed? Because it distorts a level playing field between companies successfully avoiding fair payment of their share of taxes and other companies that do not have access to equal opportunities for cross-border tax planning. Aggressive tax planning, mainly carried out by large multinationals, also negatively affects other taxpayers. Those who fulfil their obligations and pay their taxes see aggressive tax planning as an infringement that can encourage them to cease to fulfil their tax obligations. The recent scandal of Apple, Google, Amazon caused public dissatisfaction over the issue of tax avoidance. Tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning have reduced the tax base of the Member States. As a result, tax revenues, the inability of governments to provide public services such as education, social services, investment and more could be listed. Tax abuses can be limited by strengthening tax legislation, increasing transparency and intergovernmental cooperation at European Union and global level. The European Union can and must play an important role in the fight against tax avoidance and must therefore act in accordance with as harmonised and effective a tax order as possible. For this reason, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Finally, let me mention the report of the Tax Game: a bottom-up game – The role of Europe in supporting an unfair global tax system 2017, in which a broad coalition of civil society organisations analyses 18 European countries. In this report, Slovenia is presented in a very positive light as a country that is not an active participant in the bottom-up competition on tax policy. That is why in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will also strive to ensure that Slovenia insists on this tax policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. As a last resort, you have the word Mr Luka Mesec on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In principle, the Left supports the basic purpose of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The purpose of this law is to prevent the tax from being paid on the profits of companies. As the applicant correctly points out, i.e. the Government, because of differences in the tax laws of different countries, international companies are very easily transferring their profits from their home countries to countries where their subsidiaries have subsidiaries and paying a lower profit tax because they are lower there. Therefore, the new rules on controlled foreign companies transposed into our legislation by the European Directive are acting on the principle that the profits of companies should be taxed where a profitable economic activity is carried out. This is the only way to ensure payment of taxes, which then finance health care, education, pensions, infrastructure and so on. However, the law before us does not take on tax abuse wisely or strictly enough. In many cases, companies still allow profits to move to countries where taxation is lower. This is evident from the new definition of controlled foreign companies which has been transposed from the Directive into Slovenian legislation. Only minimum standards are introduced into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the most mild criteria for dealing with the European Directive. I'll mention two. The first condition of entering profits from a foreign company into a parent company is that a domestic company must have a majority share in a foreign company. So the mother, who operates in Slovenia, must have a majority share in the daughter's, where she endures her profits, that it is even subject to consideration of this law. This means that, through this criterion, all those companies that do not have 50 % plus one share in subsidiaries who are transferring profits and probably have no difficulty imagining that a parent company operating in Slovenia is spreading its ownership abroad in order to avoid this law. The second criterion, which I will say more permissive, is that, in fact, they fall under the provisions of this law only those companies that transfer profits to jurisdictions where they pay half of what they would pay in Slovenia. Despite what SMC colleague Udovč said, Slovenia should be an example of keeping tax standards in Europe and in the world in the area of profit tax, it is not. We have a 19% profit tax rate, which puts us on the tail of the European Union. We are at effective rates if you look at the OECD table, even in the last place in Europe, after how much our country collects from profit tax. What's problematic about this law is this. The criterion is that the parent company that carries profits from Slovenia must fall there under the criteria to pay only half of the profit tax that we would pay. Of the 19.5%, as far as we pay it, it must go to a country where less than 9.5% of the tax is paid. I reviewed the previous position on the KPMG audit company's website, how the profit tax was applied to European countries and found out the following. That virtually no country in Europe has a lower profit tax of 9.5%. Cyprus has a base rate of 12.5%, Romania 16%, Bulgaria 10%, Lithuania 15%, Luxembourg 18%. But it is true that only incomes above 30,000 euros are counted there. I've only found one country that meets this criterion, and this is Hungary. Because of these two things, we are concerned that this law is essentially irrelevant, that it will not have an effect. I want to say one more thing about this other criterion. The law already in force on the income of legal persons in Article 8 provides that it prevents the transfer of profits from Slovenia to countries to profits outside the EU where the rate of taxation of profits is less than 12,5 %. This law, with which to set sharper criteria, sets the threshold below. We will support him, but in the future these things will need to be pursued more strictly and rigorously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I note that, in the second reading, the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled and thus I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. On the day-to-day basis, this is the proposal for a final budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. He was presented by the Government for consideration of the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Sashi Jazbec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In front of you is a proposal for a final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 submitted by the Government with a report from the Court of Auditors and explained for the failure to comply with individual proposals for revisions to the auditor for adoption. Over the past year, 8 billion 830 million revenues, of which 7.7 billion tax revenues, 671 million non-tax revenues, 40 million capital revenues and 395 million EU funds received, have accrued into the state budget. Revenue was 16 million euros or 0.2% lower than planned. A billion 100 million were collected from income, which is 16% more than the plan, resulting from favourable conditions in the labour market. 12 % of the higher income from corporate income tax is due to the success of companies. We have raised 3 billion 504 million VAT, a billion 585 million excise duties and record dividends. The only major deviation on the revenue side is the funds received from the European Union, which amounted to 42% of the planned. The gap in this area is mainly due to the lower absorption of cohesion policy for a number of reasons, which in itself did not affect the balance of the state budget. On the expenditure side, we spent 9 billion 156 million euros, 371 million and 4% less than the plans. Direct labour costs amounted to a billion 174 million, a 4.2% increase in 2016; interest 977 million; expenditure on goods and services 727 million; and 6% less than planned. For transfers to individuals and households we have paid a billion 261 million, which means, for family benefits and parental benefits of 507 million, for social security provision of 272 for unemployed 168 million. Investment transfers amounted to EUR 233 million, of which EUR 24 million was paid to the municipalities, to the public office of EUR 60 million. The investment expenditure amounted to EUR 371 million or 75% of the planned expenditure, the reason for the derogation is the unutilised earmarked resources and the long-term procurement procedures, the audit requests submitted for the documents awarded or the contracting authority’s decision on the award of the contract. We have invested 378 million euros in the EU budget, which is 10% less than we planned, because other Member States have also overestimated the use of European funds. In relation to the EU budget, we have reached a net budget surplus of €9 million and the budget deficit of the state budget was €326 million, or half of what was planned. The receipts of the accounts of financial claims and investments amounted to EUR 6 million and expenditure of EUR 196 million, including loans to municipalities of EUR 21 million, the payment of guarantees to foreign exchange depositors of the Ljubljana Bank and the guarantee of EUR 124 million and EUR 20 million to increase capital shares and investments. The so-called B balance sheet account showed 189 million deficits. We have repaid 2 billion 774 million debt, the debt of the state budget on 31 December amounts to EUR 28.7 billion and 66.4% of the gross domestic product. From 1. 1. By the end of the year, government budget debt had increased by 1.6 billion. The final account is also part of a pooled balance sheet showing funds and resources of EUR 31 billion 831 million. The largest proportion of these funds is long-term resources and resources in management, amounting to €23.8 billion. The Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation on the draft annual accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and did not deliver an opinion for the review of the balance sheet. In the review of the aggregate balance sheet, the shortcomings are related to fixed assets, assets, given in management, and claims on European funds. In all areas where the Court of Auditors reveals irregularities, we carry out activities to regulate the situation and seek solutions at meetings with the Court of Auditors. On the basis of the proposed solutions that we are preparing in the summary balance response report, we expect that corrective measures will be defined as satisfactory in the post-revision report, and we hope that the Court of Auditors will also deliver an opinion in the future on the improvement of the reliability of the data and on the increasingly minor errors found. I suggest you accept the final bill and the balance sheet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you, Secretary of State! The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which reported in writing to the assembly. This brings us to the views of the parliamentary groups. First of all, you have the word Mr Robert Polnar, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u44	Mr. President, thank you for saying so! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! First of all, it would be worth noting that we are considering the final budget account for 2017, as just before the end of the next financial year 2018. Since we don't all know what the reason is, it only sounds like a warning. Although the budget is a plan of revenue and expenditure of the political territorial unit for a certain period of time. In economic terms, the country's budget is actually a fundamental element of its economic policy. The budget is the regulator of economic movements, savings, investments, employment and, ultimately, the outcome of the decision whether the country will lead an expansion or a contraction economic policy. In practice, the principle of a balanced budget or equality of income and expenditure has long been applicable. In the second half of the 20th century, the concept of public finances came into force, but this principle has ceased to apply and is now in force and is actively at the head of a balanced budget. However, budget deficits and surpluses are often used as instruments of active economic policy in the country today. The proposed closure account shows the difference between the 2017 budget changes adopted by the National Assembly on 16 November 2016 and the actual implementation by the end of 2017. The 2017 budget changes were based on the autumn economic growth forecast prepared by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and forecasted 2.9 % economic growth in 2017. However, economic growth was 4.9%. This also shows a significant gap between the forecasts and the real realization of economic growth in 2017. The most obvious consequence of this situation is higher tax revenues and slightly lower expenditure than planned. The Court of Auditors revised the draft final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and the correct implementation of the State budget. On the proposal for the general part of the accounts for 2017, an opinion was delivered with reservation as errors in the presentation of revenue and expenditure were identified. However, the Court of Auditors has not delivered an opinion on the aggregate balance sheet of the state budget, in which the funds and liabilities to their resources are expressed, on the availability of inadequate audit bases. This, in our view, is also the most important communication of a document that asks budget policy makers to establish these bases. As far as we can see, they have been working for four years to establish, and this has not yet been done. However, it is certainly a matter of work that someone had to do, even though we all know that it is not a work that someone would applaud. The final accounts of the budget are therefore an act defining the events already achieved, events that cannot be changed anymore. What can be changed is only an interpretation or interpretation of the realised, created in the implementation of the budget. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the proposal for a final budget account for 2017 in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Mr Andrej Šircelj on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much, President. Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the final budget account for 2017. The opinion of the Court of Auditors should be added to this final account and to the report of the Government. In addition, in this debate on the final account, it is necessary to define the relationship of the Government or the attitude of the Ministry of Finance to the opinions of the Court of Auditors. The first thing we can say is that this is about the implementation of the government's budgetary development, social policy in 2017. The second thing we can say is that it speaks to the Court of Auditors' opinion on correctness. Here we can talk about the differences between, on the one hand, the implementation of the budget and, on the other hand, the Court of Auditors' opinion. Unfortunately, the errors of the Government, defined by the Court of Auditors, are repeated from day to day, from year to year, from week to week. And also the officials and officials of the Ministry of Finance are not prepared to take into account the Court of Auditors' opinion quickly enough and effectively, but from year to year, meetings are held every month, and the results of these meetings are not included in the budget that we are considering today. I can tell you that for 2016, even for 2015, we have dealt with the closing account for 2014 and the errors have appeared more or less. Finally, representatives of the Court of Auditors, both the President of the Court of Auditors and the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, point out that these errors are repeated. Moreover, in the past the government even went to amend the laws so that it did not have to correct the errors identified by the Court of Auditors. This is a reality, it is a reality that simply in that country, where the rule of law is supposed to apply, the executive authority simply does not take the supervisor into account. On the other hand, we ask businesses, individuals and so on to comply with legal regulation. That's duality. The Government has not done so for many years and has not changed or corrected those provisions or the implementation to which the Court of Auditors points. Finally, in this connection, the Commission for the supervision of public finances at its meeting did not propose to the National Assembly to adopt the 2017 budget. This Decision has not been adopted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. What are basically fundamental errors or what defines now, I'll just say, content. Drawing on European funds. From the Structural Funds, revenue from the Structural Funds was 91 % less than planned and 61 % less than planned from the Cohesion Fund. As a result, Slovenia was very close to becoming a net payer in the European cash register, without receiving funds from Europe, but could therefore lose this status. For nine million of us here, it just separated us. This can explain what development policy was like in 2017. It can be understood from this that we have simply lagged behind in the field of investment, that we have been lagging behind in the area of development. In fact, there was no development component of the budget in 2017. And we will know this now that the economy is cooling down or cooling down and that there is a new economic crisis somewhere. The lack of European funds – this is the sole responsibility of the government that ruled in 2017. It was the government of Mira Cerar. The next case, which the Court of Auditors also points to, is a substantive matter, is a lack of supervision. Lack of control, control, resource planning, transfers to public institutions. This is also why there is no law on public finances. The government does not adopt a law on public finances that would require greater control over the resources provided for education, for culture, for social finance and so on. This control is not, is not guaranteed, is noted by the Court of Auditors and nothing is actually done about it. It's a bad plan, too. That's what the Court of Auditors calls attention. It is planned not to be planned, then there is an event that is not an event that is unplanned, but a budget reserve is used for this. This is also pointed out by the Court of Auditors, not for the first time, but nothing happens at the Ministry of Finance. They may arrange a meeting, they may meet, they may chat a little, but something does not happen. It is interesting to see what these opinions really mean. The Court of Auditors may give a favourable opinion, an opinion with reservation, a negative opinion or not give an opinion on a specific act, on certain transfers and so on. The opinion with reservation means that a certain percentage of the irregularity has been made. In this final account, the Court of Auditors found discrepancies with 37 legal acts and 37 laws. In other words, if I use slightly harder words: The government has broken 37 laws and has therefore obtained an opinion with reservation. This is also about the content of where and how she broke these laws. But the government has not submitted a balance sheet of real property to such an extent or with such content as to enable the Court of Auditors to give an opinion at all. And if the Court of Auditors does not give an opinion, it is worse than if it gave a negative opinion. This has been said by representatives of the Court of Auditors on several occasions at a meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. The Government did not provide such data on real property so that the Court of Auditors could give an opinion at all. In other words, this means that in the country we don't even know what we have, what we have, what our assets are worth. We don't know that. Probably every individual knows what property they have, every company knows what kind of property they have, at least they can estimate it roughly. But the state doesn't know that, and no one's seen it for years. The mistakes are repeated, while the secretary of state says they are solving something at the meetings. She also said that here today — here and now. But we don't have real property. We don't know – I hope we know, but someone takes it from us or doesn't take it from us, whether someone sells it or doesn't sell it and so on. And it's been a couple of years. And no one gets hurt. The Court of Auditors here mentions that it was impossible to give an opinion because there is no data. The implementation of this budget, when there were higher revenues, will be reflected in two years or three years after economic growth has dried up significantly. Due to the lack of action in 2017 and partly in 2018, people will bear the greater burden of the drying economy. Lack of European resources, lack of control over the use of funds mainly in public institutions, improper planning and, last but not least, not knowing at all, this country does not know how much assets it has – this will, of course, be reflected in smaller people's incomes, in smaller standards, in larger problems, probably in the desire for more debt to put out fires. In some ways, I appeal to this government to regulate these matters by amending the 2019 budget. Now's the chance to make it right. I appeal, colleagues and colleagues, to you, not to listen too much and to follow the executive power when it tells you what can't be done, what can't be done, and how something can't be done. I can assure you that anything is possible and that you are the one who makes the decision, not the executive. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the final budget account for 2017 because there are repeated errors that occur five years ago or more, because the Court of Auditors found that it was not satisfactory control because European funds were not properly drawn, the budget reserve was misused and, last of all, the Ministry of Finance did not show any desire to eventually settle this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jože Lenart on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you, President. Dear Secretary, Mrs. Jazbec, colleagues and colleagues! The Court of Auditors has given an opinion on the draft final budget account with reservation, which is essentially the practice of the past years or we can also say the supervisory and consistent part of the Court of Auditors. As we have learned from the discussion on the working body, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors have been coordinated for both the final account and the balance sheet during the year at the bilateral meetings on the proposed solutions. The debate highlighted the problem of B-balance, i.e. the account of financial claims and excesses of two per cent. It is clear that both the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors are at odds as to how the loan to be paid to the public fund is credited. Representatives of the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance stressed that the situation was improving but slowly. Certain things, such as land records, are unfortunately not to be edited and updated quickly and procedures are under way. The problem is also expected to be within 90 days of corrective action. This is not sufficient for in-depth changes after the claim, so the auditors in the response reports provide only information on the corrective measures they intend to take. But the question is whether they actually do. It should be mentioned once again that we are concerned about the inefficiency of European funds and we hope that the new Minister or Minister, whoever it is, will solve the problem with all seriousness. Otherwise, we have already worked on this subject at a meeting of the National Assembly. The Ministry of Finance is therefore required to prepare a response report to the summary balance sheet within a good month, which it will also do. We hope that, on the basis of the proposed solutions that they are preparing in this response report, these corrective measures will be defined as satisfactory in the post-revision report. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we will support the proposal for a final budget account.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Master Bojana Muršič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u50	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of the final budget account for the previous year is the final act by which the National Assembly concludes the financial year. The final account represents the calculation of all revenue and expenditure and the balance sheet by which we measure the performance of the budget and the transparency of public finances. The National Assembly shall consider the proposal for a final budget account when it is audited by the Court of Auditors and delivered an opinion thereon. In the case of last year, the Court of Auditors’ opinion also contains reservations based on certain minor shortcomings in the execution and recording of costs and expenditure, in particular in the public property review and the coordination of budgetary expenditure with other public records, such as the Land Book. It is the shortcomings that the budget auditor has been alerting for many years and that, as we all repeat each year, they are only slowly being resolved. The Court of Auditors has also pointed out this time the need to regulate the area of cohesion and to draw on European funds where delays in drawing and recording events occur. The Commission for the supervision of public finances considered the proposal for a final account as the parent labour force. Following the discussion, the Commission did not support the proposal for a final account. Its members and members of the opposition believe that the shortcomings should be definitively corrected before they can accept the final bill. The broader debate, both on and outside the Commission, has also developed on the subject of speed and efficiency in drawing on European funds. The accumulated delays here also have an impact on the amount of budget resources available, and we all believe that all of our attention and energy should be devoted to this area in order to make it an effective service again. Your Honor! The public finances system is a complex system whose transparency and efficiency are key for all. The Social Democrats clearly take the warnings of the Court of Auditors and we believe that more attention should be paid to the regulation of certain problematic areas which are repeated each year in this debate. However, we believe that the shortcomings are adequately exposed and addressed. The reported errors are within manageable limits and the final account thus allows a clear view of the implementation and state budget, which is the primary purpose of the final account to determine the real situation in order to be able to deal with it. Once again, in the Group of Social Democrats, we expect the mistakes that have been identified for many years to end in the coming years. Finally, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will therefore, taking into account the recommendations of the auditors and the debate on the working body, support the proposal for a final account for 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mrs. Mateja Udovč, Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u52	Your Honor! Today we are considering the draft final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017, which reflects the final result of the budgetary policy for this year. The government has followed the objective of reducing the budget deficit and reducing public debt. The data show that the target has been achieved. The European Statistical Office has announced that Slovenia already has a public financial surplus of 0.6% of GDP this year, and the public debt has fallen to 74% of GDP. In 2017, the gross domestic product actually increased by 5% and nominally by 7.1% compared to the previous year. This is for 2.7 and 4 percentage points higher than was foreseen when the budget was drawn up 2017. High growth was strongly linked to exports and increased domestic private consumption. Exports actually increased by 10,6 % and imports by 10,1 %. Positive developments also continued in the labour market in 2017 and employment increased by 2.8%. In 2017, there is also a large average of investments in fixed assets. Investments increased by 12.5% in this area, and for road infrastructure and new construction, the government provided as much as 198 million, representing 20 million more than in 2016. Upgrading and modernisation of railway lines continued and could be found. Realisation data show that the income of the circus was 8.83 billion euros, which is 16 million euros less than planned, and expenditure was 9.16 billion euros, which is 371 million euros less than planned. The implementation of the state budget shows 326 million euros in deficit, which is less than planned for 355 million euros. The difference between the planned and realized funds goes to a large extent to the European Union's funding gap, as we have received 58% less from the European Union budget than we planned. In the Modern Centre Party, we agree that Slovenia has fallen behind in the implementation of the current programming period 2014-2020, if it is assessed only and only after the realisation of the revenue from the European Union. The Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation to the accounts. It assessed that the general part was properly prepared and reflected the correct presentation of revenue and expenditure. As regards the correctness of enforcement, it also considers that in important respects, government budgetary users have acted in accordance with regulations and guidelines. In both cases, only minor errors were found, which were the same as in previous years. The response report required only three ministries. However, as new and relevant, the Court of Auditors shall be given a warning regarding the use of funds from the budgetary reservation, which shall be used too often inadvertently. The budget provision is intended to finance unforeseen purposes or for purposes for which, during the year, it turns out that the funds provided are not sufficient because they could not be planned in the preparation of the budget. In the absence of audit evidence, the Court of Auditors rejected the opinion on the balance sheet of the budget at 31. 12. 2017, as it was not possible to obtain sufficient and appropriate evidence to confirm the state of the underlying assets, the claim of assets in management and the short-term claims of customers. In the Modern Centre Party, we are aware that there are differences in expert opinions and positions between the Government and the Court of Auditors, so much cooperation and joint work will be needed in this area to unify quality professional communication. This should not be too much of a problem, for we are ultimately living and working in a common uniform legal order. On the basis of all the indicators and opinions of the Court of Auditors, we estimate that the Proposal for a Final Account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 is properly prepared, realised and shows the Government's success during this period. It also shows positive trends in development and economic performance. We fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Last but not least, Mr Aleksander Reberšek, Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats. What it's like - the last one is the first one or something. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear President, Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As each year, the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for the previous year are very much dealt with by the Court of Auditors' opinion. This year, too, the Court of Auditors made several comments on the proposal for a final budget account. The President of the Court of Auditors said at a meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances that, following the revision of the proposal of the final account, they had given an opinion with reservations on the general part of the final account and also on the correctness of its execution. He estimated that the findings were very similar to those of previous years and that the errors were similar. With regard to the general part of the final account, he pointed out some cases of books which led to their view that revenue and expenditure were not properly shown. With regard to the correctness of the budget implementation, he explained that the opinion had been tabled with reservation due to numerous violations of the laws which are repeated year after year. The Court of Auditors has, since 2011, been able to amend the Public Finance Act, to make corrections to the auditor, which the Government has never taken into account. As a result, the same errors are repeated year after year. This year, the Court of Auditors has demanded the same or similar corrections as the Government has rejected again. In Novi Slovenija, we are critical in particular of the fact that the Government does not ensure that the violations that have already been identified so many times are resolved are not resolved, this is simply unacceptable. Given that the current financial perspective is slowly coming to an end, we are also particularly concerned by the Court of Auditors' warnings about the inefficient use of European funds, particularly in cohesion funds and structural funds. When drawing funds from the Structural Funds, we received 91% less than planned and we received 61% less from the Cohesion Fund. The planned surplus from a European perspective was over €505 million and the surplus was only €9 million. An analysis of public sector wages for 2017 shows that the gross wage amount increased by 5.1% and more than 180 million euros compared to the previous year. The average number of employees increased by 2.4% and 3 000,681. In New Slovenia, on this occasion, we reiterate that the fruits of economic growth should be felt by all citizens. This can only be done by reducing the tax burden on all employees, both in the public sector and in the private sector. In the New Slovenia Group, we expect parliamentary parties to respect their promises and support the decommissioning of the work that we have already put into the legislative procedure in Novi Slovenije. Due to repeated violations, which the Court of Auditors has reiterated, we cannot support the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia budget for 2017 in Novi Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a final account. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The best thing that's happened to us besides getting the sovereign state of Slovenia is that Slovenia became a member of the European Union on 1 May 2004 at the will of the people expressed in the referendum. Later, we also took over the common European currency. These must be historically important developments, achievements, achievements of our people, our citizens and our citizens. And that we are members of the European Union, of course, we have the opportunity to draw on European resources for our development. European funds are practically the only, virtually only, grants, and development funds, and we do not know how to draw them. What we have already identified on the Committee on European Union Affairs is practically the whole of the previous mandate, as found for this final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017, the Court of Auditors is, even more, facts that are not admissible. Now we as the National Assembly just figure out, and we say yes, because it's okay, and the final bill is some kind of history. While this is true, it is processing, addressing some historical financial data, the budgetary data from last year, but where we made mistakes, we also need to learn something from this. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not permissible for us to draw 91 % less from the Structural Funds than was planned in the budget last year, or, according to our home budget, to record a 91 % drop. Further, as far as cohesion funds are concerned, we record a 61% drop in terms of the plan. So if we compare the realisation, if we compare the plan made by the government and adopted by the coalition, we record a minus 61 percent. If the National Assembly does not respond to this, then all is allowed, and in particular we signal that illegal matters are also allowed, that the work carried out by senior government officials and officials is allowed, but they simply do not work with the heart for what they are set up for. Maybe it is, but that's not what I'm getting into. Maybe there's some kind of expertise at stake. But something simple has happened that is such a bad realization or such a big failure to draw on European funds, i.e. virtually the only non-refundable development funds. And if this irresponsible action is not acted upon by the National Assembly, then there is simply no responsibility and irresponsibility. If I move forward here now, then we are practically losing the values that those who rule over you should defend. What to defend — to apply. And here we have the biggest concerns in New Slovenia. If it goes that way, we'll actually decompose our society. The Court of Auditors shall draw particular attention to the budget lines of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as the Court of Auditors is missing and requires the Ministry to establish analytical records for all social transfers obligations. We talked about this days ago, social policy or social transfer policy, rather, is such that almost no one understands it. And since no one understands it, it's a departure from the social state. And since this is a departure from the social state, this is a departure from Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution. These are the facts, the numbers are talking about. Of course, we will also be in the future, because of course we are moving forward, first of all next year, we will, of course, have to provide something over €3 and a half billion to service the debt of the Central State. Here I hear more than once a delusion, czech, we have reduced the public debt, now it is only 74 or 76% of GDP. I never took a loan because I'd pay off interest. The credit has to be paid off in euros and I don't really care about the percentages here, because for raising GDP, raising gross domestic product is, we all know, entirely deserving of you who are in businesses, I won't tell the economist, because maybe someone will jump, because that's why the economy is the one that pulled this economic growth forward, so employers and employees, that we understand that I'm very precise. It must be made very clear that on 30 September this year the Central State debt was still 29 billion and 265 million. It's a fantastic number, and it's gonna weigh us down for a while. That is why it is so important that those grants that we have at our disposal in the European cash register, if you want, which is also our cash register, that we really make use of those funds to the last cent. We have proposed some measures in the previous term, unfortunately we have been overheared, but now we are where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Perhaps it is right to begin by recalling the circumstances in which the state ruled in 2017. In 2017 we had favourable macroeconomic circumstances. We had a high economic growth, which was the biggest consequence if I express myself freely on Luke Mesco, Achilles' fifth Slovenian economy, that is, because of exports. We were in the middle of the financial perspective 2014-2020, so we should draw on the full benefits and benefits of European funds for good, smart projects that would add value to our economy, the population and others. In short, we had a government that also had an extremely large majority in Parliament. We now have a final account in front of us this year, when numbers should also reflect what we are talking about today, and unfortunately not. Out of about 9 billion and a half, 391 million euros were realised for investments. I know little of the municipality that it would spend less than 10% of what it has annually for its investments. The majority are between 30 and 60 percent. Both of these exceptional circumstances were raised by 326 million, or 326 million budget deficits were raised by the Cerar government. After all, it was planned by 600, and someone else boasted on the board that it had been cut by almost half. Under these favourable circumstances, while the financial perspective should run with full steam, Cerara's government, instead of Circus billions of euros of money from European sources, has obtained this money for 416 million. More than half what's expected. And no one felt worthy in 2017 to come before this Parliament, by the government, the Cerara government and the Members of Parliament, to pour pure wine. At least September would be a good time to do that. However, we have heard a great deal of praise in the last period about how the Cerara government has been successful in drawing on European money. We will soon also begin to listen to praises about how the current government is successful in drawing, and the numbers, I think, will put us on the real ground for 2018. When we discussed this final account with the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, we had a debate on European money that Friday. And I told the committee at the time that I expected, in view of these figures, that, at least, the minister would step down, regardless of the fact that he had barely occupied this ministerial position, which later happened, not because of this catastrophic drawdown, but because of other reasons, because he did not show any activity to make it any better this year. We are at the end of 2018. We still have a bad two years at our disposal to commit, in an appropriate, smart way, those remaining, but there are no concrete activities to discuss that the government of Marjana Sharca will do anything to make this happen. Because if these activities are taking place at the last moment, at the last second, then the funds are also being used badly and for bad projects. And that is what I think we will be witnessing in the context of this financial perspective. But there is a new government and government at the door and government negotiators are going to Brussels to negotiate a new perspective. So you should be discussing today how we will draw on and spend as effectively as possible the new perspective, not the fact that we are now dealing with the old imported issues. The debt of the state budget was the end of last year's 28 billion 740 million. And when I mentioned earlier that a deficit of 326 million was realised in 2017, I forgot to say that the debt increased further by EUR 611 million in 2017. For a billion €611 million, debt has increased, but we have realised 326 million euro deficits. And some, I'm sorry, would like to share what we have now surpassed. What did we do? Do some of you want to share or what? And given the activities that have been taking place in the last weeks of the Sharcha government, some will still have a severe headache in the coming years, as budgetary expenditure is increasing, and therefore will not be added value in a better situation for individual services of the state administration and the public sector, not in wages, not elsewhere. Ten years ago, on 31 December 2008, was the debt of the state budget – do you know how much? Seven billion 182 million. More than 20 billion less than today. It is said that more than €20 billion in ten years. For what? For what, I wonder? Is that why people have better health care? They don't. They're getting worse. Is that why people have decent pensions? They don't. They get a fair pay for the work they're doing? Not all of them yet. Not to talk about everything else, which could be settled with 20 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen. This final account for 2017 cannot be supported either from a formal point of view, since it has already been mentioned, including the Court of Auditors’ reservations and all the rest, but cannot be supported for substantive reasons in particular. And once again, this poor governance and the failure of the Government to feel responsible for Parliament, in order to give timely warning that the budget is not being implemented as planned, must be put to an end. And the only way to end this is to vote against this final account. In addition, I think that the end of this poor management would result in the exercise of responsibility, because, unfortunately, very few people in this country are responsible for poor management. Usually, at a lower level, someone else is found, at these highest levels, where this responsibility should be the greatest, and unfortunately it is not. For all these reasons, personally, I will not support or vote against this final account.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that we are probably talking about the final budget account five times or six times in this National Assembly. And if we looked at the magnetograms, we could say that I'm repeating myself to some extent. I repeat myself because the individual government is also repeating itself in making mistakes in the implementation of budgetary policy. I am also repeating this because the Government does not comply with the Court of Auditors' recommendations, it does not take into account what the Court of Auditors actually recommends. I'm talking about the recommendations. Since these recommendations are written, the requirements should be written. And once again, because I just don't see how a government that doesn't respect its supervisor can talk about respecting the legal system in this country. This is simply a matter of law, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance. For the rule of law. Whether you have a substantively different opinion or do not have a different opinion, this is about respect for law and the rule of law. And I don't know how you can ask others to respect it. The government has this privilege of writing its own laws and then somehow putting them to life through a coalition. But it puts itself in a different position, in a position that is above the legislative authority, in a position that is over the supervisor. 37 laws are listed in the Court of Auditors report and 37 laws here the government did not respect. You can count them on four pages. And if so, of course, the question arises why you do not do so and whether you will do anything about it in the future. Here, too, the Government has time in this debate and let me ask you whether it will take account of the Court of Auditors’ views and the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Is she going to do that? And if she does, when will she do it? Is there any commitment here to this government? Because these errors, which are repeated in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and so on, are likely to continue in the future. From this point of view, I would ask the government representative to tell me when this will happen and how this will happen. The second question is, when are you going to have a real estate balance? When? Is that a date? This coordination, look, I think that in the views of all the parliamentary groups it was that this coordination was too slow to agree on all of this. Some of the parliamentary groups said in a slightly nicer way, slightly more wrapped in the cellophane, so to speak, I may have said it more directly and also now speak more directly, but let me say it. See, the legislative body, which lastly confirms this final account, expects you to tell us when this will happen, so that in Slovenia we will know how much property we actually have. Regardless of the records, whatever the excuses are, yes, I don't know, this ministry doesn't want to do that the other ministry doesn't have information about it and so on and so forth. You know, because of me, the whole government can sit here, not just a representative of the Ministry of Finance, who is now here in some way the victims. The whole government, to have the President of the Government come and say this, is ultimately here about the budget document, how it will be implemented now and how it is being implemented now that it has the greatest executive power in this country. Secondly, as noted by the Court of Auditors or the Court of Auditors or the Court of Auditors, the supervision of public institutions. When will you ensure control of public institutions, this transfer? When? When will you adopt a law, an appropriate law that you have been predicting for several years? When will this government adopt an appropriate law, which you have been predicting for several years, and the Public Finance Act, do you not accept? I am interested in the position of the government, not in the position of the Ministry of Finance, that the Ministry of Finance will say: "Look, we cannot reconcile ourselves with these issues." You are representatives of the government, the government of Mr. Marjan Sarc. When are you going to do that? These are not questions from today, these are questions from five, six, seven years ago. How will you draw on European funds in the future? Tell me today and here and now. That this negative pumping, which was shown in 2017, will actually improve. Government, what are you going to do about it? And the Ministry of Finance, this is a direct question for the Ministry of Finance: When will you stop using the budget through the reserve in contrast to the budget documents, as the Court of Auditors tells you? There is no question here why, because in this House – go watch the magnetograms of those who are new – we have been talking about, why is that, for five or six years or seven years. Here's the question: when is the government going to do it because it has to do it because the Court of Auditors ordered it? The question for the Court of Auditors is why, in so doing, it has not proposed all the measures it has at its disposal. Among other things, it is available to require the resignation of an individual official who does not take into account the views of the Court of Auditors. This happened once in the case of the so-called kant and so on. It's already happened. But the Court of Auditors has – and this is a question for the Court of Auditors – the possibility of actually doing so. Not because of these mistakes, I'm going to say extremely severe and so on, but because the government is actually unresponsive here. I take it as an irresponsibility that meetings are convened and there is no agreement. And there will be a meeting because nothing will be done, but on the outside it will show how much work is being done. In this, I will say, is the charm of the rule of this government and, I will say, of the previous governments and so on. From this point of view, I expect the Secretary of State to be here to tell us, not how and why, and so on, but when. When are we gonna have a balance sheet? When are we gonna have a list of all our assets? When are we going to have an act here that will regulate public finances, for example, that this is the Public Finance Act — when? These are actually these questions now, and I would, of course, expect answers from the Secretary of State who is here, because of me, can also from ministers and ministers, for them it is only a formality that this will now happen here. There are many words already spoken in this national assembly on the subject of the content and the drawback of European funds. My question is: What are you going to do, what will the government do to make this better? Substituting a minister isn't enough. There is not enough to do something substantively in order to strengthen the economy, the economy of Slovenia, because we will have a larger investment cycle, because we will be more resilient in a time that is worse than today if you want to be more robust. That's the only question right now. But I just can't support this closing account. I would be opposed to myself today if I supported some of the solutions that were the same and the same mistakes as they were a few years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We no longer have any reported debaters, so we are moving to the final part of the debate, in which we get the word of a representative of the Government of Mags. Sasha Jazbec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying, thank you so much for the debate. The essence of the auditor's review of the financial statements is to assess if they adequately reflect the auditor's events. Thus, if the final account 2017 adequately shows the revenue, expenditure, revenue, expenditure and balance of the national budget. And the Court of Auditors wrote in its opinion that, apart from the errors mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the 12 million that we have misrecorded in balance sheet B, and since the B balance sheet is relatively low, is 195 million, then the 12 million that we have misrepresented is over the threshold of 2%, which is the threshold for an opinion without reservation, and the Court of Auditors states that, apart from this error, these 12 million and other revenues, the interest income that has been misrepresented between the balance sheets is EUR 148 thousand and 730, this amount is the amount that they consider the revised general part of the draft final account proposal to be correct, that is in accordance with the Public Finance Act, the Accounting Act and other rules, showing the revenue and expenditure of the budget for 2017. So, in the A balance sheet, in the big balance sheet, which was 9 billion 156, there were no problems. The problem is in this part that I have mentioned, and the problem is whether when we give money to the public fund or if it is recorded as a given loan, it is the expert opinion of the Ministry of Finance, whether as a loan or as an expenditure, only the part that the fund then goes to the final beneficiaries. This is the general part of the audit of the aggregate balance sheet or final account. Today you have cited a lot of laws in breach of the Government's budget implementation, because the auditor, in addition to revising the general budget, is also reviewing how individual auditors are, in fact, within the Government, the correct implementation of the budget. And here are actually the 21 laws, 5 regulations, 3 regulations, 2 coalition contracts, tender documents and contracts where irregularities occurred, but also here the Court of Auditors says, in the revision of enforcement it is said: “Except for the impact of these irregularities on the correctness of business we believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the government budgetary users have operated in all important respects in accordance with regulations and guidelines.” Let me give you a case-by-case report on what interfered with the Court of Auditors. Let's just say it wasn't in line with the Customs Service Act, because the public servant's permanent allowance was accounted for in excess. Next violation. Non-compliance with the Defence Act since the public servant’s permanent allowance was accounted for in a low amount by the Public Procurement Act, since the award decision did not state that the audit application had to be accompanied by a certificate of payment of the fee because a voluntary notice of prior transparency had been published too late. The Public Information Access Act since the information contained in the contract of execution was published too late because the recovery committee was set up too late. Since the regulation governing the financing of higher education was not adopted within the time limit. These are things that are due to operational risk, so it's said how people do their work by the departments. And here the changes in laws and the adoption of new laws will not help us to implement the budget more correctly. So that the Court of Auditors’ opinion, apart from what is explicitly mentioned here, is in both parts, i.e. the general part of the final account and the execution, is in accordance with the law, which is the task of the Court of Auditors when it revises the accounts. The Court of Auditors shall not issue an opinion on the balance sheet. Of course, we know how much we have. Today, the debate stated that we do not know how much property we have. We know how much we have because the claims and liabilities are harmonised, the value of the assets is clear and the problem with this summary balance is that the Court of Auditors revised it for the fourth time and that in this process we have actually carried out one set of activities, which I will now also list, because it is not true that nothing changes so that nothing improves. In view of what the Court of Auditors has proposed to us in the past, we have established a relationship between the Ministry of Finance and the Succession Fund. We have concluded an agreement specifying the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Fund, the business events arising, the documentation that shows these events and is the basis for recording and recording. The Ministry of Finance then revised the recording of operating claims to the SID of the bank under security reserves. On the recommendation of the Court of Auditors, we opened several accounts under long-term claims and in this way did what the Court of Auditors expected. The identification of the types of assigned assets in the Act establishing the Housing Fund as a public fund has been carried out. This was also the agreement with the Court of Auditors, the third case that was settled. Then align the Act establishing the Succession Fund with the provisions of the relevant law and describe the intended assets in the register. This was the Court of Auditors' request. After what is very important about when we will have a summary balance or when we will have an opinion on the summary balance of the situation, in line with the activity plan that we have presented to the Court of Auditors – and these activities have several years to carry out, because it is specifically about the implementation of the entries in the Land Book – I cannot give an answer here when this will be settled because it depends on the course of the proceedings in court. Currently, 85% of the property is owned by the State in the land book. By amending the EDIS CDK application, Furs has ensured the full disclosure of claims and liabilities to taxpayers. This was a request from the Court of Auditors in the past. With regard to control, you have spoken today – by upgrading the MFERAC application we have now made it possible to send analytical records of indirect budgetary users and thus enable the supervision of ministries with management resources and, consequently, the regulation of property owned by the State. Then another important thing, by obtaining an analytical land record from Dars on day 31. 12. 2009 confirmed the value of the transferred land of the motorway infrastructure from Darsa to Day 1. 1. 2010 Then we fixed the value of €1 in the business books and fixed the value here from €764 to €127 in real estate, while we fixed the value here from €41 000 790 to €2 000 809. We then amended the Entrepreneurship Support Environment Act as a confirmation that the funds to small enterprises are repayable. This is related to what I said earlier, that is why the Court of Auditors gave its opinion with reservation on the basis of this book in the B balance sheet. So it would be hard to say that nothing had been done in connection with what the Court of Auditors had pointed out in the past. That is also what I would like to respond to when it is said that we are changing laws in order not to register. Certain debt management transactions, now this exchange of bonds, which has taken place actively over the past few years, are recorded only on the balance sheet accounts, without expenditure, following coordination with the Court of Auditors on the basis of the amendment of the law. So we're not sitting at meetings to sit down, we're looking for common solutions. However, the fact is that the areas where things need to be settled are considerable. And as I said on the committee, it doesn't go overnight, and it doesn't go through a thousand 400 nights, because we're dependent on a lot of stakeholders here. You asked when we would get a positive opinion or when we would stop using the current budget reserve for what it is not intended to do. The current budget reserve, I am afraid that, no matter how hard we try, is one of those points that will be very difficult or the last to come from the Court of Auditors' list of comments. In accordance with Article 42 of the Public Finance Act, this reserve may be used for purposes which could not be planned or planned to be too low. Since we have a fiscal rule that sets the ceiling for expenditure, we do not have the possibility of keeping a lot of reserves on each purpose for different purposes. And for some things, spending during the year is much easier to predict than for others. For the legal obligations of certain transfers of individuals and households, we can assess how many these beneficiaries will be, but if something happens during the year, whatever, the number increases, then we have to meet the legal obligations and then use the current budget reserve for these purposes. You've talked a lot about the failure to draw on European funds. Of course, the Court of Auditors has the opportunity and right to comment on anything, but in this particular case it has revised the final account and the summary balance, it is said, in principle, that it should be stated here whether the accounts adequately reflect the events of the previous year. In view of the fact that the debate on European funds or the failure to draw on European funds for current cohesion has been opened both on the Commission and today, I would stress here only that we are absolutely aware of the shortcomings that the Government has drawn up an action plan or that the director has drawn up an action plan to accelerate the activities that the Government will address this week. It is important that these funds are not lost for the country, but, as in the past perspective, they will be used in the end. Although the perspective has the final anniversary of 2020, these funds will be available until 2023. And I believe that these development funds will be able to help integrative means after, say, economic activity has fallen, as you have already pointed out today. Maybe a comment about the investment. Last year, while 600 million were spent on investments, we take into account investment expenditure and investment transfers. The fact is, in principle, the state in economic theory is not supposed to be the main generator of investment in the economy or in some economic space to create conditions, so that the conditions are appropriate or conducive to investment. This country has encouraging investment conditions, companies can consider 40% of the investments to be tax relief or, in the case of investments in science and research, this can be considered as a tax relief for the entire investment amount. And I can't get past the debt you're talking about. As long as the state budget has shown deficits and deficits it has also demonstrated in last year, it is logical that debt is growing, i.e. to finance these current assets A balance sheet as for the financing of the B balance sheet. And when the Treasury prepares the debt programme, of course, it takes into account the budget adopted as planned, so 684 million deficits in the A balance sheet were planned and a similar deficit in the B balance sheet. It is therefore necessary to ensure that this current year can be funded in the funding programme. Otherwise, the genesis of the debt of the past decade is very clear, and we have analysed it at the Ministry of Finance in the years between 2009 and 2015, when the state budget recorded between a billion and a billion and 700 deficits each year, it is only to say that it is ongoing, in order to provide wages, interest payments, transfers to pensions, transfers to individuals and households. From this title is essentially 10 billion debt for the current implementation of the budget and 5 billion debt is due to the recapitalisation of banks. So when you asked what people have of this debt in those miserable years or we had a recession in this country in the form of a double letter V, they said they were, twice we experienced the bottom. During that period, the role of the State was important and proved to be at the same time in lower revenues, in higher expenditure resulting in an annual deficit. By 2015, as I said, the deficits were more than a billion each year, only in the last two years has this deficit been reduced, last year it was 326 million, and this year, as you know, it is forecasted, planned and an surplus will also be achieved. We are trying or we could say that it is not true when you said that we do not show interest in changing things so that we can correct our shortcomings. We are working hard to record this planned or even higher surplus than planned this year's state budget. In fact, we hope that we will finally get an opinion on the balance sheet and perhaps even a positive opinion or opinion without reservation by the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I find that there are no debaters, and this concludes the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a final account today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on the real property of the State and the self-government of local communities, the summary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr France Rokavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members, the distinguished representative of the Government! The Council of State submitted a proposal for amendments to the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities for a simple reason, i.e. the adoption of a new Law on Real Property of the State and all the administrative local communities at the beginning of this year, created a so-called legal void, which in some ways resulted in the fact that after 10 March this year we cannot modify the plans for the management of the State's real estate and all the administrative local communities, unless we have explicitly written this in a specific quota in the budget decision or if the procedures for the preparation of the budgets for 2019 have not been initiated. And you haven't started in most cases. Then, in fact, there are no conditions for the adoption of actual municipal property management plans for 2019 as well, and from this point of view there is considerable economic damage. Above all, we know that at local level, in municipalities, there are certain, say, new, necessary solutions for the acquisition of certain real estates for individual investments or for the disposal of certain assets, whether they are apartments or not. For this reason, we have then submitted a proposed amendment to the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, in particular with a view to abolishing the transitional period set by 2020. With the solution proposed, we propose that the municipalities can actually exercise flexibility and flexibility with the real estate of the municipalities. This, of course, also enabled the rapid and efficient implementation of investment projects and, of course, other tasks we have in the municipalities. Of course, the proposal for amendment and amendment of the law was also addressed by the competent home committee, which, of course, also adopted the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, which, in our opinion, I would say, makes a move towards the proposed solution, but still travels to the municipalities, that any change should change the budget of the municipality. Here too, after this textual and substantive work, there may be certain problems, especially where there will be no different values, but it will only change the content of the individual property. The Council of State has proposed to supplement this text for third reading, in particular in the sense that, in fact, as has been the case in local communities so far, in order to actually allow for a flexible and flexible modification and complementarity of the real estate management plan, irrespective of the need for a change of the document itself in the budget. And then we followed up on Article 3 of the Legislative Service's comments in order not to intervene retroactively, so that these provisions would, of course, enter into force for 2019. I ask, of course, for understanding and also for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you very much! The draft law was treated by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the representative of Zvonk Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u66	Have a nice hello to everyone again! At its 3rd meeting, on 7 November this year, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, submitted to the National Council for consideration by the National Assembly. The amendments were tabled by the LMŠ, SD, SMC, DeSUS and SAB Members of Parliament within the time limit, and the Committee also proposed its amendment at the initiative of the proposer. In a supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposer, Mr Franci Rokavec, the State Adviser, explained that the State Council, by means of a proposal for a law, wanted to remedy in particular the legal void resulting from the adoption of the Real Estate Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, which entered into force in March 2018. He stressed that the self-governing local communities could not complement the real estate management plan or adopt a real estate management plan for 2019 under the applicable law without a transitional period, unless they had already begun procedures before the law was implemented on 10 March this year, which had done very little for the municipalities. He also stressed that, if they did not have a legal basis for supplementing the real estate management plan, there would be major economic damage during the transitional period. The proposal allows for the elimination of the transitional period and for the simultaneous flexible adoption and complementarity of the real-estate and local community management plan. The representative of the Government, Mr Leon Behin, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Public Administration, said that the Ministry of Public Administration was absolutely in agreement with the fact that there was a minor problem in the adoption of the law for the period 2019, so it is reasonable to fill the gap, not only with the possibility of supplementing the real estate programme by local communities, but also in the state segment. The proposal was supported by all three representative associations of the municipalities. In the debate, the representative of the proposer voiced opposition to the proposed amendment of the coalition groups to Article 2, as the adoption of such an amendment would not solve anything. He gave the initiative to amend the committee to allow for the selection of those local communities that had already opened the procedure before 10 March 2018 or those that had not started the procedure before the law was put into effect. Following the short suspension of the meeting, the amendment, as proposed by the proposer, was summarised as an amendment to the committee. The representative of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia stressed that the Community of the Communities advocates and supports only a solution, as set out in Article 2 of the bill, but not the proposed amendments by the coalition groups of Members, since the adoption of amendments in this area would still leave a legal void. It claimed that almost no municipality had applied the provisions of Article 56 of the Law, which would allow it to adopt two-year budgets for the two years considered. The Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 2 and 3 of the Marjan Sarca Group, the Social Democrats, the Modern Centre Party, Desus and Alenka Bratušek. Since these two amendments were adopted, the Committee did not vote on the amendment to Article 2 as it became irrelevant. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Leon Behin, State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members, the rest are present! As already stated by the two predecessors already on the Committee, the Government is seeking to resolve the legal void created last year by the adoption of the law in such a way that it is not possible to supplement the asset management programme or to adopt and continue procedures if these procedures have been adopted and initiated before the entry into force of this Act. It is important for the Government that all procedures that resolve and support this matter must be transparent, which means that they must also be equal between all local communities and the country, the procedures must solve such assets and the budget of the state and local communities, not only local communities, and must also equalise the situation as to whether the procedures were initiated before the amendment of the law or whether the procedures themselves will begin after the introduction of the novel after the same. And also in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, one of the key moments is this equality and equality of municipalities, that there is no possibility of 2 different systems of updating the asset management programme, which could result in the lack of transparency of the matter. We also believe that it is not appropriate to go with the amendment or reduction of transitional periods, but it is necessary to go back, because the fact is that more than 20 municipalities have already adopted budgets for 2019, and the country also has a 2-year budget, and this is in favour of the need to continue the procedures and enable the equality of all those who accept this budget for 2019. Maybe just as far as transparency is concerned. It is crucial that, within the framework of these amendments, which are, as well as proposals, solutions to changes and additions to the law, we take into account the fact that it is not possible to agree on just a quick one and, I will say, simple procedures for modifying the property itself for a purely simple reason, because in the case of investments that are larger, it is also necessary to ensure adequate coverage with the budget for each year within the local community or the country, which means that it is not possible to agree that these programmes are merely complementary to certain parcels or to any other assets or take away because the current situation shows that something is not possible to obtain. But also for these matters, if we are to talk about major investments or investments in the European Union, it is necessary to have adequate financial documents and also relevant budgetary items, which means that the budget for carrying out such operations should also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor. Mr. Dushan Shisko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u70	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a real estate law and local self-government allows municipalities to complement the real estate management plan and to adopt a real estate management plan for 2019 under the applicable law without a prior period. Under the applicable law, the local self-governing community cannot complement the real estate management plan in the previous period and have no legal basis for adopting a real estate management plan for 2019. Self-government local communities need to be able to complement the real estate management plan without a prior period and to adopt a real estate management plan for 2019 as well. The Slovenian National Party's Group agrees with the proposed Article 1 of the bill, as the amendment will bring clarity to the law itself. Article 2 of the Act on the implementation of the budgets for 2018 and 2019, which allows for the submission of the budget for 2018 and 2019 to the mayor also outside the period for which the municipal council was elected. Article 56 states that, irrespective of Article 13a of the ZJF, the Mayor may submit to the Municipal Council, together with the draft budget for the following financial year, also the draft budget for the year following that, even outside the mandate period for which the Municipal Council was elected. The Slovenian National Party's Group disagrees with the proposed Article 3 of the bill, since the proposed solution is only partial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u72	Hello, everyone! At the initiative of the Council of State at this meeting, we are also considering the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities. The main objective of the law is in particular to remove the legal void created by the adoption or enforcement of the new law of March, which may cause economic damage. Under the current law, the local self-governing community cannot complement the real estate management plan during the transitional period and have no legal basis for adopting a real estate management plan for 2019. The same is true at the state level. It should be pointed out that all three associations of Slovenian municipalities have also submitted their reasoned support to the law. For a month in March, they pointed to the illegal conduct of the lawmaker, or Government of Mir Cerar, that a legal void had taken place in such an important law. This highlights the problems arising from the shortcomings of the existing law – the stagnation and non-implementation of projects and, consequently, the inability to apply for European funds, which has a negative impact on the development of municipalities and on the quality of life of the population. In the area of buying up land for roads where procedures are already under way, it may be that the municipalities will be in a position to be sued by citizens if an appropriate legal solution is not reached. In short, if the self-governing local communities do not have a legal basis for supplementing the real estate management plan during the transitional period and are unable to adopt a real estate management plan for 2019, there will be irreparable damage to the municipalities, as this also prevents them from carrying out certain statutory tasks, which is irresponsible and unacceptable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposed solutions of the State Council, which also enables the State to complement the real estate management plan without a transitional period and to adopt a real property management plan for 2019. However, since the coalition parties, through the adoption of amendments on the committee responsible, have caused a departure from the integrated proposed solution of the State Council, our support for the law depends on the adoption of the amendments that we will consider and adopt today.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party was presented by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, and this was not a representative of the Slovenian National Party as well as a semrekel. I'm sorry. The position of the Group of Ambassadors List Marjan Šarc will be presented by Nina Maurovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! By supplementing the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia wanted to remove the gap between the law of ZSPDSLS-1, which entered into force in March 2018. The law states that the municipalities which started the real estate management procedures before 10 March 2018 may conclude them in accordance with the provisions of the law which was in force until that date. However, the legal gap arose in the event that the municipalities did not start the procedure until that date. Under the new law, the legal basis for the adoption of the 2019 plans has been abandoned as the new law provides that local communities can adopt plans and prepare budgets under this law only for 2020. In practice, the new law deprives such municipalities of the legal basis for having real property in 2018 and 2019. In the Letter of Marjan Šarca Group, we, together with coalition partners, proposed amendments to the contentious articles that fill this legal gap. The amendments, also endorsed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Self-Government, extend the provisions of the old law to all procedures for the planning and management of state and local self-government assets for 2018 and 2019. The proposed amendments are professionally justified, take into account the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service and ensure the legal security of the municipalities which have already started the proceedings. On 13 November 2018, the SDS Group and the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia tabled a proposal for an amendment to the amended Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, which actually allows municipalities to refer both to new and old laws when planning and dealing with real property. Since we believe that the amendments tabled by the SDS Group and the Council of State represent unacceptable arbitrariness of the user, we will not support them in the Marjan Sarca List.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u76	President, thank you for your word. Dear government representatives, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. The Real Estate Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, adopted this February, was assessed by the self-governing local communities as a good law, which was created together with other stakeholders and was coordinated to the greatest extent possible. Regrettably, however, it later appeared that transitional provisions were overlooked mainly in Article 96 of the Act. This amendment of the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities was prepared by the proposer, i.e. the State Council, on the basis of the legal void established in the adoption of real estate management plans for 2018 and 2019. The proposed amendment, according to the applicant, aims to enable self-governing local communities to manage real property economically. The applicants considered that, by regulating the work, the economic damage not only to the municipalities but also to the State. Note that, following the current regulation and implementation of the second paragraph of Article 91 and Article 96 of the Law, the completion of the plan for dealing with the real property of the local self-government communities is, of course, impossible to complement, on the spot and the intention to remedy the error or legal void, we also support the Social Democrats. In the debate on the Committee, the debate focused mainly on which solution was right, whether it was a basic proposal for a bill of law, whether it was amendments by the coalition, or the proposed amendments by the Council of State. We are confident that the debate on where and who has properly filled the legal void will take place today. We share the view that a meaningful asset management programme is to regulate it so that it is good for the municipalities and for the country. We Social Democrats have tabled the proposed amendments together with coalition parliamentary groups and supported them with the desire to remove the legal void found and with the intention of allowing the municipalities – as well as the state – to act legally and economically on property. We are aware that proper economic treatment of real property is a very important task for both the congregations and the countries. In explanation of the amendment to Article 3, we have stated that the proposed solution during the transitional period allows for efficient and economic management and management of real property based on legal planning also in the case of procedures for planning the management of the real property of the State and the self-government local communities for 2018 and 2019, which began after the implementation of the Real Property Act and the self-government local communities. With the proposed solution, all municipalities can regulate this area legally and with appropriate legal certainty, regardless of the stage in the real estate planning process. We also support the proposed solution because, after several discussions by government representatives, we have been assured that the proposed solution to the proposed amendment of the law, which deals with the real property of the country and local communities, is legal and good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u78	It's not a problem if you make a mistake, it's a problem if you don't fix it when it's time. And in the National Assembly, of course, today we will correct this mistake on a proposal from the State Council, especially for one simple reason, so that the municipalities can actually do what they urgently need for their budget, which is a real property management programme, which is the most normal and normal thing. The dilemma that we are going to decide today is, of course, the proposals that have been adopted on the committee as amendments on a proposal from the whole committee, but in essence the proposals that I expect today will discuss my right-hand side, which proposes that we have a kind of a la carte programme, as in a restaurant where each congregation will decide whether to go old or go new, in short, will itself assess what will be preferable to it. I am confident, as well as in the SMC, that the law must apply to all the same. We will therefore support the basic bill with the proposed amendments. However, we do not agree with the SDS's proposals and will not support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Nataša Sukič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u80	President, thank you for your word. Your Honor! In Levika, we have always been critical of the behaviour of the state and the self-governance of local communities with immovable and movable property. The greatest problem is the lack of transparency and intransparency, from the inclusion of virtually all existing real estates in plans to deal with the conclusion of legal transactions beyond the annual plans and the measurable realizations until the subsequent changes in the existing plans. All of this has been pointed out every time the budget documents are adopted, in which the National Assembly has also considered the annual plans. However, instead of solving existing problems and ensuring greater transparency and transparency, a new law was adopted in February this year, which even deregulationed the procedures, for example, the annual plans were simply abolished for the country. At the time of the adoption of the law, we proposed supplements to ensure greater transparency and transparency in the field of real property management, while at the same time preventing the so-called Sheriff’s Department, which we are witnessing in certain congregations. Since the then coalition did not support any of our proposals, of course we opposed the law. The first problems related to the new law have, in fact, proved to be prior to the expiry of the transitional period. They are the reason why we are considering today's novel. Even though there are only two substantive articles, we have three proposed solutions on the table. In a way, this is how real property is handled in practice — just a little bit by yourself. Everything that is said proves that the system is impenetrable and the control is questionable. And he will remain as he seems to be in the future. This is already indicated by the fact that the proposed laws, the Government and the representatives of the municipalities on the solution to the particular problem that we are dealing with today cannot really be unified. For before it is fully established, each one interprets himself a little differently. What this means for the future is clear. The practice of dealing with real property will continue to be as much as we actually have in the congregations. This is why we cannot support the bill in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u82	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities governs the conduct of, that is, the management and disposal of property owned by the State and the municipalities. It also applies to state and municipal property managers and users, such as public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds. Each asset owner, who is a good master, has one goal: careful planning and management. It means that it is able to respond quickly to economic changes in the market and adapt to their needs. This is certainly the case for companies that are not owned by the State and by the local self-government communities. The country and the municipalities need much more time to adapt to the needs of the market to respond in a timely manner to the changed spatial needs. In New Slovenia, we still claim that the country is a poor owner and that we have a harsh business environment that is unable to adapt quickly. Local self-government is much more flexible in this area, as municipalities want to accelerate real estate planning procedures. They are aware that because of the transitional period when they are unable to supplement their plans this year, they are suffering economic damage. They shall also not be able to accept the deployment plans for 2019 if these procedures have not started before 10 March this year. Who benefits from a transitional period that actually prevents direct adaptation and adoption or modification of availability plans? The Ministry of Public Administration states that it is absolutely agreed that the adoption of the Real Estate Act created a minor problem for the period 2019. Is this really a minor problem? Respected coalitions are a major problem, namely, the incomes of municipalities that are already in a worse position because of the multi-annual deprivation of the average. It should therefore be of great interest for the Government to remove this legal void from March to 1 January 2020 immediately. It is a matter of legal certainty, of equality before the law, and therefore the municipalities which started these procedures before March 2018 should continue and end procedures under the applicable law. The amended proposal for a new law, which contains an amendment on the home committee, increases the inequality and separates the procedures initiated before and after the entry into force of the law in March 2018. The purpose of adopting real estate plans is clear at any time and has the same purpose and effect, regardless of whether the municipalities have already adopted them under the new law and whether they will be adopted in 2019 or in 2020. Therefore, the State and the municipalities should be free to dispose of immovable property without a transitional period in which they would suffer property damage as a result of the non-collecting of legal businesses. In Novi Slovenije, we supported the proposal of the proposer on the home working body, but not the amendment of the coalition, which does not eliminate the legal voids and does not solve the essential problem of municipalities, this is a mere flexible reception and complementation of real estate management plans. Since it is a grave, an unacceptable intervention in the autonomy of the local community, we will not support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Property of the State and Local Communities. However, we will support the law if the amendments are adopted at today's session.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u84	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The effective functioning of municipalities is based on a consistent system of funding with a level of financial resources that is proportionate to the powers of local authorities. The second inescapable element is a stable and manageable budgetary management system. The relevant financial resources and assets of municipalities are essential financial and material foundations of local self-government. Proceeds from the property are an important source of the congregation’s own resources created by the congregation through the economic management of its property. These revenues are mainly important as a compensation or as a complement to the lack of systemic resources. In the case of the system source, I mean mainly the income and the resulting average, i.e. there is no reason to be impressed by the agreement reached by the Government and the Representative Association of municipalities on the average for 2019, because this still, approximately 30 euro per capita, does not achieve what should be achieved under the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. The adoption of a new law on the real property of the State and the self-government local communities, which entered into force on 10 March 2018, resulted in a legal void which prevents the institutions of local self-government from supplementing the real estate management plan in 2018 and its adoption in the financial year 2019. It is the intention of the proposers to remove this legal void. We are pursuing the following objectives with the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups. The municipalities which started the procedures of the proceedings in 2018 prior to the entry into force of the law shall complete those procedures in accordance with the rules in force before the new law. The municipalities that started the procedures of the 2019 procedure prior to the entry into force of the new law shall complete the procedures under the old law. However, municipalities that have not yet started the procedures for handling and planning will be subject to the old law in their 2019 procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter that needs to be regulated because we must respect at least three principles defined by the European Charter on Local Self-Government regarding the financing of local communities. The first is the principle of adequacy, which requires the local community to have adequate financial resources of its own, with which it freely disposes of its powers. Secondly, it is a principle of proportionality that requires the financial resources of local communities to be in proportion to their tasks and responsibilities. And third, most importantly, is the principle of elasticity, which requires the financial resources of local communities to be sufficiently diverse and adaptable to be as cost-effective as possible for the performance of entrusted tasks and in particular for the needs arising in local communities. For all the reasons listed above, the proposal for a new law will be supported by the Desus Group in the same way as it was supplemented by the parent body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 26 November 2018 to Articles 2 and 3. Since the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 3, we will discuss all amendments to the two articles together. I am putting to the debate Articles 2 and 3 and the two amendments of the SDS Group and the two amendments of the Council of State. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. I'm asking you to sign up. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. The proposal will be the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I'd like to explain the amendments of the State Council. In the debate, I saw the fear of the arbitrariness of the solution offered by the State Council. However, in the debate on the working body for such a possible solution, I did not see any problems with the Law-Legal Service. However, the key problem in the solutions now offered is better than what the law allows for, it is said, a change in the budgetary rebalancing process under the old law for any change in the individual property. What the Council of State proposes, however, is that there is no need to go into the process of amending and supplementing municipal budgets. Why? Look, I'm going to make a completely banal case. I'll give you an example in our congregation. This year, in March, the investor Petrol visited the municipality to update our gas service in the city itself. We found that there are two smaller plots, a few square meters, that the investor should buy from the congregation. We did not have this in our plan of availability for this year, and of course society is now standing, but the municipality is also using these procedures and the investment itself, because, of course, we cannot complement it. Once this law is passed, we will be able to fix such a solution, but by amending and supplementing the budget. So, I think here is the principle that any change in the plan should also be qualified at the income and expenditure level, one of the great hair loss that the state is setting itself up. And it poses a substantial additional obstacle and even greater inconsistencies. I mean, look what we're gonna do in case of one road. Many times it happens that the municipality, as an investor, cannot, in the preparation of an investment programme, a development programme that is the basis for placing in the budget, foresee precisely all parcels to be purchased from individual owners, and one partial number appears during the investment to find another owner. We have a perfect revenue and a cost. But in this case, how are we going to fix the issue here and properly reconcile the issue with income and expenditure in the budget? Nothing. We're going to write changes and budget additions, income the same as it was, expenditure the same as it was. See, with this solution, which is now being offered in the proposal of the coalition parliamentary groups. It'll be tricky here, too. It's not just what I heard about arbitration today. Thus, the option offered, rescue under the old law or resolution under the procedures provided for by the new law. Therefore, I think that such a possible solution, unless, I would say, from the point of view of constitutional compliance, is unacceptable, is significantly more admissible and provides for significantly greater flexibility and also the cost-effectiveness of the conduct of the actual property of the municipalities in this case. Why have we defined only municipalities in this amendment? Because the articles, which we define in some way, only apply to self-government local communities. Here is the difference between the amendment offered by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. I think, in a way, we conclude the matter consistently in the second amendment to Article 3, where we explicitly define the year 2019. Why 2019? Let's face it, the year is coming to an end, we're not going to be able to solve anything practical this year. We're saving for 2019 and then we're saving for next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u88	This is one example that we have today on the table that tells us that this country would need another home, the Council of State as a representative of local interests, which would also have its original legislative competence in one part and would adopt laws relating to the field of municipalities. If we look at this law and look at how many words have been said around this article - we are talking about one article, one substantive article - and if we listen to those who are concerned about the issue and who know it and propose appropriate rational solutions, then this novel could be adopted several times without debate and major disagreement, and so today we have at least two if not even three solutions. One, this is the one that, with the adoption of the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, was then adopted and confirmed and, today, treated as original, does not solve anything. Because of this change, we can have a marriage or we can't. Then we have the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of the Council of State, where, as far as we are concerned, we can find that the amendments of the Council of State are even more precise and, if we agree on the content, we can express our support for these amendments, without any problems or problems. I think that in one large part of the misunderstanding that we are talking about, unfortunately also in those who are responsible and responsible for this area. Earlier, a representative of the Council of State told the committee, and all representatives of the associations of the congregations who were present there, that what you have today on the table and what you have accepted with the coalition amendments will not save anything. Why? Because we're talking about 10. 3. 2018, which is the cut-off date, and all those congregations that before 10. 3. 2018 has not started the process of accepting or modifying the real estate management plan, they are in a vacuum. Only on one hand or both can we count those congregations that did so then but not all others. For all others who have not done so, since this transitional period under the law lasts for the whole year 2019, only from 1. 1. 2020 is starting to apply this amendment to the law, namely this article, this proposal proposed by the Council of State today, which is summarized by the amendment of the Council of State or by the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which solves these procedures, that is all. He's not putting anyone in an unequal position. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, by the way, I do not know if this is an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, this is the opinion of an official or an official, because I do not know if there is any employee in the Legislative and Legal Service, officers of the Legislative and Legal Service, some have little more work experience, some little less, and so these opinions should also be read in my opinion. This opinion states that the proposed amendment could mean that the rules of the planning procedure with the actual property of the municipalities, that I do not use this long term of the local self-government community, change during the procedure itself, which is inadmissible in terms of legal certainty, Article 2 of the Constitution. Or do the rules of procedure not change after this novel? You're not after this? Please! Se. That's the problem. According to the novelty, if the rules of procedure are changing, in order to allow for an equal manner of action for all those municipalities which are in this case in the majority and which, in my opinion, are over 200, which is just before 10. 3. 2018 did not start because they could not, most municipalities did not start one year earlier, please, for 2017. What the State Council has proposed means regulating these things for most congregations and not for a handful. And it puts the majority in an equal position that is not now in an equal position. If we keep going and if we're still going down to the constitutional area, in this case, it's not that important. I think it is important to allow one normal way of working for all congregations in as little bureaucratic as possible. All of these solutions, which we are witnessing to today, and in this law, unfortunately, speak the opposite. Then, at the next point, we will also have a law that speaks of red tape, where the previous government, Cerarjeva, has burdened those who already do not have any means at all, with additional costs to register some motorcycles, as I tell them, which has nothing to do with the area of traffic safety. Nothing. That's why there won't be any more accidents. There won't be anything else. Except someone else will be cashing for these procedures. People have a lot of problems because they can't get these documents because it's older engines and so on. And this marriage here is something like that. Instead of improving the rules of the game, the right regulation is improved in a way that makes it transparent, transparent, clear, simple and ultimately the same for all, but with some law in the law there is a situation that will cause most municipalities to be in trouble and will also suffer financial suffering. More than once, it has been said that in today’s world, time also means something. And if someone who's willing to go somewhere in an investment, take some procedures for a year, probably won't be there anymore, he'll decide and he'll go somewhere else if it's about getting some land or something like that. I must say that I personally do not understand this insistence in this view that the problem of formalism and that this novel proposed by the State Council would create an uneven situation and so on. I think it is necessary to look at the content here, and I think it would be right to unify ourselves on the content proposed by the State Council, because it stems from the interests of all those who work with it every day. The Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia have all supported this proposal, the original proposal of the State Council, which is today summarized in their amendment. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, I think from Velenje, has made it clear that what was then adopted does not solve anything. I think that these amendments should be supported and made possible so that the congregations can continue to work normally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'd like to take a little bit of a stand, too. A colleague from the Modern Centre Party Jani Möderndorfer said, but now we will discuss again some amendments coming from the right. I really don't understand whether we're dealing with this important matter, which side of something is coming, whether it's ours or yours. I hope that today we are talking about the interests of local communities and not least of the countries, because there has been an arrangement that has allowed or caused a legal void. This legal void is not the fault of the local community, but of the former government, and we can say it is now recycled because the parties in the similar composition are now in the government. And I ask you nicely, say the representatives of the Council of State themselves, who then warned that the amendment, which was not what was said in one position, was accepted as an amendment to the committee, but was adopted as an amendment of the coalition parties, went in some way back, because it was moving away from the solutions that were proposed. And it is true, in all associations, that it is now a solution that is inappropriate. And today we're going to adopt a law that will be inappropriate again. A colleague from LMŠ said: “We have a law that is professionally justified.” Oh, come on. In February, we also heard that the law was professional and that associations had already warned that matters were not well solved. I don't understand why we don't listen to local community representatives who know things, they know them from the field, they know what they're dealing with, and they warn us that these solutions will cause problems. The fact is, in fact, rare congregations have accepted these plans of real property or the handling of real property before March. This is a problem, for then we do not allow all equal opportunities. Are the local communities really guilty now? I'm saying no. And just the amendments, no matter which one, I personally think the amendments of the State Council are even more detailed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are not the type of party that goes head-on through the wall and looks only at what is ours, but especially at what is of common benefit. And the amendments proposed certainly make it possible for all that was previously exposed as a problem. Look, there was a specific issue that was about to arise. And finally, it's a transitional period, it's 2019. And why they don't allow local communities to do things one way or another. It's for 1 year, but this year there's going to be a lot of confusion if we don't let them follow one or the other law. Why do we not go against them now if they are not to blame for this law being passed? A mistake was made by the executive branch of power and then by the coalition in the legislature. And today, when we have on the table the proposed solutions, which are also proposed by the State Council, because he told the committee itself that the solution proposed by the coalition party is not good, it is not good, it is not perfect. Indeed, some have followed the Law-Legal Service, but they are now following the Law-Legal Service, but you are going again with your head through the wall because this is a proposal of a coalition. But no one thinks what the consequences will be. It is also about drawing on European funds. We had a meeting here where we are drawing on European funds. Here, the representatives of the local communities themselves tell us that they will have difficulties in applying for individual tenders. So we're giving up this option in some way. We don't just deny ourselves, respectable, but to local communities. At the final stage, we are also representatives of these communities, because it is the lives of citizens and citizens. And I really can't believe that someone says that the case is professionally justified if those who do things on the ground say that it isn't, and that's why they're going to be trouble. Now, I would not say that this is an arrangement that will last for years and years, but only a transitional solution, especially for the year or for 2019. Why do we not go against those who have warned of the shortcomings of marriage? A flawed law has been passed, proposed by the State Council, not the Government, not the Government, not the Government, not the Government, correcting its mistakes, or coalition parties, but by the State Council, but now we are not allowing them the solution they are proposing, which is being assessed in an integrated way and which will allow all the municipalities to act in the way they should. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support the amendments precisely for that reason and it does not matter whose they are, they are important what they are saving. And they're solving this whole thing in one piece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u92	Mr President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, my friend! It is not a problem of formalisation or of what we have now heard, but rather of the fact that the duality of regulation, as proposed by the State Council and the SDS party, only facilitates matters in appearance, and in practice this dual arrangement represents difficulties in planning and implementation, and in particular in controlling procedures. So, there is no audit trail, leaving an open field for will, both on the side of the municipality and, of course, on the side of the country. When it comes to some minor matters and when there are harmonised income and expenditure matters, this can only be corrected in the real estate management programme. However, in the event that these investments and the need to change the programme arise due to the opening of new NRPs or other new investments, it is also necessary to draw up a budget balance or to correct the budget, because this means that these two processes are interconnected. However, the arrangements we have proposed are simple to use. The municipalities already know it, it is also comprehensible and covers a single solution for all municipalities, those that have already started planning, as well as those that are yet to begin planning, while at the same time the system is not being undermined at the national level, there is, of course, a budget already adopted for two years and the country also has plans for the management of assets for 2018 and 2019. The proposal for a coalition with which, of course, the profession, the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service also agree is already defined in Article 91 of this Act, and the municipalities that have begun to plan are dealt with in the following way. Therefore, those who have initiated procedures before the entry into force of the ZSPDSLS-1 are that the procedures are terminated according to the rules in force before the new law, this is according to the old law. However, the municipalities which started the planning procedures for 2019 before the new law was put into effect, the procedures for the conduct shall be terminated in accordance with the previous rules, Article 21, paragraph 2, that is, according to the old law and the regulation. I think we all have the same goal, our paths are kind of different, but I think we need to maintain control of these procedures, as I did at the beginning, and we must not leave any momentum or any will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Here you go, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u94	Yes, if I may thank you for your word. [[…]] Maybe another explanation, because I think that things are either not understood or not well spoken. Here I see one fear that has been exposed — control. Does the change and addition of the program of handling the actual property of the congregation, which must be adopted in this manner and so on in the municipal council, not constitute adequate supervision? Why are we always going to change the budget and the budget balance during this transitional period? Here's the only change and we'll have problems, we'll have problems if the numbers don't change. I have already mentioned the case, there is one partial number at, say, a kilometre and a half bike track, which is now being regulated by many in Slovenia for obtaining European funds, which you do not have in your real estate plan, and you will be able to get through the budget rebalancing. There will be no change at the income level and not at the expenditure level, but without this procedure, the municipality will have to adopt the budget balance. The numbers will be the same. Let me know what a change of budget this is going to be. Here, however, I have a problem with how the congregation will find itself and who will then read the change and supplement the budget. Annex — Plan of management of the actual property of the congregation, also soft, but see, we are making problems needlessly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Leon Behin, Secretary of State, also wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you very much! Maybe just to explain to this debate. It is important to point out that in amending the law we are establishing a system, which means that it is defined uniformly, transparently and unequivocally. The system has to be supplemented because 2018 and 2019 have fallen, depending on the status quo or the date on which we are located. There is a need to be clear here and to put matters, in our view, transparent. It is not always possible to consider small things such as the change of one plot. We are also talking in the system about the big things that are occurring within the programme, within the balance of revenue and within similar, even completely new things that are being placed and do not have a precise financial or NRP coverage. That's why the system has to be clear. Speaking of new burdens, we don't think it's right. As such a way of regulating the real estate management programme, not least the constituent part of the budget of the municipality and the country was also applicable until amendments were adopted, which means that the municipalities and the state have been using it for years, they know it, and also, according to our information and communication with the local communities, they do not see the problem. It is true, however, that the system, as proposed by the representative of the Council of State and also by the amendment, which has been exposed here, greatly simplifies the procedures for certain small cases, but it has already been said in the opening presentation on my part that we must advocate transparency, transparency of the budget, which has been an integral part of the asset management programme in the past, and also all that the local community will do and what the state will do. However, what appears to us to be a key factor in tackling this deficiency, or, for example, the major problems and holes that have arisen for 2018 and 2019 by 1 January 2020, is that we do not block certain cases that already exist in practice today. The fact is that there are local communities, if we are talking only about them having an adopted budget for 2019, even in the old part of the budget allocation programme, some have also started with a procedure, although it is necessary to say that there is no formalistic procedure, but that if we take into account all the activities it carries out to adopt the budget as the start of budgetary planning and everything else, then we know that there could be some problems in this case. Keyly on the side of the Ministry and also the Government, it seems to us that by the end of 2018, however it will come into force, and in 2019 transparent and systemic regulation, which was not now possible to plan and not to implement, will, of course, continue to exist here in the future, even after the regulation after 2020, that what will not be possible to change some parcels in and out in such a way as to continue, and purely simple procedures will never, of course, be involved in the management of public money, as procedures must be planned and systematic, as the representative of the Left has recently pointed out in her presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u97	Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u98	Yes, the Secretary of State said that certain municipalities that already have budgets for 2019 could have problems if they had accepted what the Council of State proposes. And I'm wondering, what kind of problems might there be? Earlier, we had heard a representative of the Council of State who had specifically indicated what the congregations were now in. And he said an example, which is not only theoretical, but a practical example, that in the sum of all plots that have been listed in some development programme plan for a project, one or two have fallen out and only numbers need to be changed. If we do not change the law as proposed by the amendments of the State Council or the SDS, then we need to go with a balance – we know what the procedure is – and the content does not change. This is why the question is concrete: What will be the problem for those who did so before 10. 3rd this year and have already adopted budgets for 2019?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Representative of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u100	The key point to be made in this regard is that if the budget is already adopted by both local communities and countries – I will extend this to the country or to the users to whom these provisions apply – is that, if they have an adopted budget for 2019, it is also an integral part of this. If the old law was still in force, there would be difficulties in modifying this law in terms of planning these procedures in the future. This is a matter of very specific procedures where, in our view, we would not be able to do so in the light of the documents already adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much. A replica? [[No, no, ……]] If not, will I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it? Please, I'm opening applications. The first shall have the floor of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u102	I didn't, but I listened very carefully to the Secretary of State, and I really understood where the problem was. I would really like to know that perhaps this would be explicitly stressed. The amendment provides a choice, a choice for municipalities that have already adopted procedures, or are in procedures under the previous law, or for municipalities that have not yet planned such procedures on the day when the real estate law was enforced. So, indeed, the amendment does not provide for two possibilities, which in some ways would be either bad or bad for one or the other, it only provides a solution. And the other thing that I'm going to be precise enough, I'm sure it makes sense that when you go into a change or a certain acquisition of a higher-value property, the project, or only investment and procedures that are linked to the development programme plan, will also be involved. There is a clear procedure that there must be a procedure for amending and supplementing the budget. In fact, it is about addressing those shortcomings that occur many times in a practical life. In my opinion, it would be time for our country to start thinking practically and also to solve problems in life. I think we are finding ourselves in such a banality that will really bring this country into a hopeless position, if this is how we solve our problems, and I stress this once again. And I think this is one of the cases that we encounter every day in other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry, proposer, all together a nice greeting! The policy of the former government continues, as colleague Anja said, and the recycled government repeats the mistakes made by the previous government. Why? The former government has adopted a bad marriage. Then came the National Council, where the influence of practice, reality, that is, the mayors who wanted to correct this nonsense that the previous coalition had adopted, and wanted to fill this legal void. But look, then a recycled government or its coalition majority comes to the board and proposes and adopts an amendment that saves nothing. And then here today, at a meeting of the National Assembly, the same coalition is again against the solutions that we are proposing either in the SDS or in the State Council for one reason, because we are not a coalition. As the proponent said, you need a little farm of common sense. Dear representatives of the coalition, something or at least one I have seen here as former mayor, which some of you have run for mayors in this year's local elections, which some of you have run for municipal councillors, and I hope that some of you have ever been a municipal councilman who has solved concepts in practice, such as budget, budget rebalancing, real estate plan and so on. And today you, like Mr Möderndorfer as a former deputy, a colleague from the SD as an ex, as well as I think the current new councilman in one of the congregations, say there are no problems. They say that there is no problem if, for example, the congregation accepts one balance. By law, it must be for all the saints, although it is only one nuance in the budget, which is channelled such a stack of materials, everything must be provided by law. Tell me specifically whether you prefer to see that the municipal administration sends to all the councilmen in the congregation for a change, because of one road, as the proponent said, such a piece of material, or somewhere under point 15 before the initiative and the question of the councillors supplemented by a proposal for a plan to change real property. Which is easier in practice? It is obviously easier for Members to bring with them all congregational councillors in all congregations, at any change, to a meeting of the municipal council full of ploys of material called the budget rebalancing. And so it should also be by the end of 2018, where certain municipalities have already announced that at their first constitutional session they will also change or wish to change the availability plan and will have problems. We already have too many rebalances, I think the average in Slovenia is that the municipality changes the budget 1.8 times, that is, the work of the rebalancing. But this coalition, which continues the policy of the previous coalition, which is opposed to the development of the local community, is making a copy-paste variant of the former government's policy. It doesn't matter if there are representatives of municipalities sitting in the State Council, because it doesn't matter if we have SOS, ZOS and ZMOS, they know more than all the mayors, than all the municipal councilors, like all the directors of municipal administrations, than the entire municipality of administration. This is our Slovenia at the end of 2018. When representatives of the ministry, the government and the coalition majority know more than anyone else. I wonder what the vote will be today, once again, all those of you who have been mayors in the past, the parish councilors, whether you are in the new councillor's mandate. How will you come to one of the next meetings of the municipal council or city council when the mayor asks: “What the hell were you doing in the National Assembly when you had a good proposal from the State Council, which distorts the interests of the municipalities?” I hope that you will be mentioned by name to act against not all local communities, but especially against your municipalities, to act against very small changes, which can have a great impact. Is there a European or a national call, or is there even a change in the municipal, spatial plan, or even a change in the municipal detailed spatial plan, where there is some agreement between the congregation and someone else as the owner on the other hand, where matters want to be resolved? But these coalitions are not interested in the real problems of the congregations, they are interested in only one thing, we are in power, and it will be as we say, even though we correct the foolishness of our predecessors from a similar coalition with similar nonsense that brings nothing. So I really expect at least those of you who have ever been local officials to think a little bit about what you're doing to your local communities. I believe that those who have never had contact or an idea of how local self-government works, that, according to your own words, you will be hanged down, as does many of the representatives of this coalition, and especially the representatives of this government, for whom local self-government is just a side reaction, because there will be fewer mayors, there will be fewer running mayors, we will be easier to act on. In short, I really don't understand that in a matter as light as this law and like these amendments, coalitions find great problems. And instead, once again, to solve the mistakes of your predecessors, you leave them open. I really expect the support of either the SDS amendment or the amendment of the Council of State to resolve matters. If, of course, this coalition wishes to speak seriously about local self-government at any time after this term, today it has the opportunity to solve a major problem for certain municipalities with a slight change. I myself will support the two proposed amendments to resolve what the previous government has not been able to resolve, and what the current coalition obviously does not recognise is that there is a legal void that needs to be resolved substantively and technically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Previously it was said that if amendments were adopted, we have problems with transparency, control and so on. Please, this is coming from a party that has not yet succeeded in seizing the species and, in fact, in adopting the appropriate solutions to follow the decision of the Constitutional Court. You whistle at the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but here you are talking about some kind of oversight, impreciseness, and we all know that local communities have always been a better master than the state. Now, as far as what's been said. So you don't want to give the congregations a choice to act in one way or another when it comes to this cut-off date, and to those who had already had the proper real - estate plans before that, and to those who have not yet accepted them. This means that although all of these, as a coalition, have advocated the removal or reduction of administrative matters, this will only increase. Practically at each meeting of the municipal council, there will be a balance and meetings will be devoted to the rebalancing of budgets. You know very well how extensive things are and how long they last. Instead of allowing the municipalities to deal with development programs and everything else, they will have to deal with the budget rebalancing in order to save, I don't know, a sidewalk, a road or a real estate sale. Catastrophe. However, I would expect the Secretary of State to be defined as regards the proposed amendments. After all, you're the cause. I'm not going to say it in person. Your ministry, you're confusing you. Today, the State Council has told us what the solution is, and I want to know why you do not want to equalize the congregations and enable them to do what is best for them and in the spirit of a good master. For if you do not support the amendments, then the good economy, the drawing up of European funds, the implementation of projects mean nothing to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u108	Yeah, because I couldn't replicate to the Secretary of State earlier. The arguments are neither with the Secretary of State nor with the only discusser of the coalition. They're gone. There are no arguments against what the Council of State proposes. On the other hand, there are arguments for us to implement the solution proposed by the State Council. And the greatest weight that anyone can give to these arguments have positive opinions for me on this proposed solution of the representatives of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, representatives of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and representatives of the Community of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia. All of them have supported this proposed solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State, state councilwoman and colleagues! This amendment to the law simply needs to be adopted due to an unacceptable legal void. The original sin of creating a legal void is in the grave, narrow and at the surface of everything else the misinterpretation of the provisions of the Real Estate Act and of the Self-Governmental Local Communities by the Ministry of Public Administration. Here I would like to thank the Council of State, including the Ministry of Public Administration. The Ministry of Public Administration could say: “The law is not suitable for further consideration.” As is usually done when someone who is not of the coalition is proposing a law. But now specifically to the amendments. I think it is very correct, colleagues and colleagues, when my colleague Zvona Černač, as a representative of the applicants, told himself that even the amendments of the State Council are a little closer to him or more precisely. This is very correct on the part of the proposers of the other amendments. Perhaps I am too idealistic, if already, colleagues and colleagues, now you can be here only for one good football society, unfortunately, it does not seem too afficacious especially to local communities, but let us leave now if the problem is that you cannot support the opposition amendments, then support the amendment of the State Council, which is not the opposition that is our second home. Although I have listened to one of the views of the parliamentary groups on today's agenda, "we, the National Assembly, are working on solutions for citizens and citizens" and the State Council is a collection of some interested communities. Very, very poor definition and mockery from the State Council. Thank God we have you, now in this case you're trying to figure out what to get rid of. My colleague, Polnar, has very well started the debate on the European Charter of Local Self-Government. On the 10th month, on 1 October 1996, the National Assembly ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government. And that's all I want is for once some composition of the National Assembly to internalize this understanding of what local self-government means. That it's not some local government, it's self-government. And what does this document say? I will, because I have too little time, only took up in Article 9 of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which speaks of the financial resources of local authorities: “The financial systems on which the resources available to local authorities are based should be sufficiently diverse and adaptable so that they can, to the extent practicable, follow the actual movement of the costs of carrying out their tasks.” The sixth paragraph, or sixth paragraph, of Article 9: “Local authorities” should be given attention, local authorities, “in an appropriate way to ask for an opinion on how resources should be allocated to them.” [[…]] [[…]] Did anyone ask that? Are we going to throw the opinion of the Association of Municipal municipalities, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, which are somehow appealing to us and waiting for our response, a better solution? Yesterday I was in the European Parliament, where there was an excellent debate on the principle of subsidiarity. Also, the question of how many politicians in Slovenia understand that. The European Union is based on the principle of subsidiarity. We, Nova Slovenija, are based on the principle of subsidiarity. Due to the principle of subsidiarity, we have a European Charter on Local Self-Government and we have local self-governments, i.e. municipalities. Why would we go now and oppose local communities, that is, our congregations? We are all citizens and citizens. Why not tell them, see what is more beneficial for you now? It's not that something is now going to be arbitrary like we've been listening to here, it's that something is going to be – what is it? A la carte. Wait a minute, come on!? Don't make a fool out of congregations. Finally, all the Slovenian municipalities were formed here in this house. Or am I too idealistic to express my hope that, if you can't support the opposition's amendments, you can support the amendment of the State Council. Those who follow us don't have papers in their hands, so let me read this amendment at all. The amendment of the State Council, which states that Article 2 shall be amended to read: “In the second paragraph of Article 91, a new sentence may be added to the dot and read: ‘No matter what the previous sentence may’, ‘the self-governing local community may, in order to complete the procedures for the real estate planning of the self-governance community for 2019 or to amend the already adopted plans for the real property of the self-governance local community for 2019, established or adopted before the implementation of the Real Property Act and the self-governance local communities, apply the provisions of Articles 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 of the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-governance Local Communities, if they consider that they are more favourable for them’. [[…]] [[…]] These are procedures that are alive, that are running and that are a very limited timeframe. And here I just don't understand why they keep you, but why stand up against our congregations, against citizens and citizens. Here we have, once again, the Association of Municipal municipalities, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia which support these solutions. The National Assembly now stands above the saying, nothing will happen to your local self-government. This is where the state will determine. If she's more centralized, then we'll get far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Next and last reported in this circle, I give the word to Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, the President, Members and Members, this time I will also appoint you citizens and citizens! Among us is the representative of the State Council, who is also the mayor, Mr Franci Rokavec, who has shown us in a plastic way why these changes are. And if we didn't understand that, then it's a shame we're sitting in this national convention. Much has already been said about living, being human, being what we are elected to do, or sitting here — helping local communities, helping local communities, helping congregations that have made an excellent proposal, or the National Council to make their work easier. And that is also our duty. The commitments of the new government and coalitions to remove administrative barriers, bureaucracy and thus continue to sit on fertile ground. I propose that we respond positively as citizens and citizens and adopt this proposed proposal. I myself will be happy to support this proposal. The Council of State knows what is right, and I think all of these debaters who have excused the rejection of this proposal with different excuses, such as planning problems and so on, are not in place. Therefore, once again, I think that the proposal is very appropriate and that we will make it easier for Members to work for the congregations. Let's support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We're done with this round of debaters. Before I ask you whether anyone else will want to discuss this, I give the floor first to the Secretary of State, Mr Leon Behin. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you very much! In particular, I would like to give an answer to the question raised as to how we view the proposals of the amendments by the Ministry of the Interior and also by the Government. Here it is clear that we all agree that the amendments and additions to the law must be adopted, because we have a legal void to fill since 2019, if not earlier. We all agree, as has already been the case on the Committee from my side and also from other discussers, and even today, on what our objective is, namely, to enable local communities and the State to adopt amendments and additions or to adopt amendments to existing asset management programmes, whether they are part of the budget, if they have been planned and adopted in the past or if they are a proposal for a new implementation of the procedures under the new law which has entered into force with the last amendment. But we're different on the way to getting to this thing. I hope that I will not go too closely, the Council of State and SDS, in the direction of changes to the current law today, with the possibility of a local community decision to supplement and adopt a real estate management programme, where one part does not take into account the possibility of this solution for the Republic of Slovenia or those who are. And here is the difference compared to the other part when I move on to an amendment of the coalition that allows with its amendment both changes and additions and the adoption of a programme for local communities as well as for the country. However, there is a different way in which this amendment, which was adopted by the Committee and proposed by the Coalition, proposes this in the way that implementation and procedures were continued, as they were before the amendment of the law, which means that the municipalities and the State, after all, in the case of the budgets adopted in 2019, have already implemented and are finally aware of them. And given that we are only talking about the completion of 2018 and, above all, about 2019, it seems more appropriate because it is more uniform, more transparent and also the continuation of procedures that have already been carried out in the past, a proposal adopted by the Committee and also approved by the amendment and the absolute adoption of complete amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much! Now I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Since it is an interest, I will first open an application for a debate. You get a word for the replica, yes, here you go, Mr. Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary of State. In the part where you're talking about the state, this explanation doesn't hold. The country has an adopted budget for 2019. However, there was still no answer in that second part, so there is still no reason to insist on the decision taken by the coalition members on the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you. Given the interest expressed in the debate, I am opening a re-appeal. Please sign in. Yeah, you signed up? We'll do it again. Check-in is on. I'm guessing we've got one registered, that's Franc Kramar. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll speak from my experience. I was a longtime mayor of one of the Slovenian municipalities. The Law on Real Property of Self - Governmental Local Communities and the State is a law that provides the legal basis for each congregation to decide separately which property will be sold or which property will be purchased. The fact is that this plan of the real estate programme is an integral part of each budget, both municipal and national. The fact is that when the budget is adopted, the municipality also approves the plan and provides the legal basis for the purchase or sale of this real property. I personally believe that the amendments of the coalition that have been submitted solve the problem. Personally, I also think that municipalities can change the development agenda with any rebalancing so that they can adapt it to the needs of the congregation. That is why I personally think that this amendment of the coalition is a good one, thus eliminating some legal void from which I am confident that each congregation will be able to manage its assets as a good master. In fact, I am also convinced that it will be necessary to adopt additions and to amend the law itself. I think there are quite some open questions that will have to be resolved in the future, and I hope that, here, the Government will also prepare these things on an expert basis, settle them, and give them to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Another microphone, please, if you turn it off. Thank you. What if there's no more desire to discuss it yet? [[…]] Mr. Rokavec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I think we have, in fact, clarified the point of the problem in this debate. It is logical that each budget is an annual, whether state or municipal, made up of various sub-divisions, including a programme to deal with the actual property of the congregation. However, we know from practice that at almost every meeting, almost every meeting, the municipalities are changing and complementing the plans for development programmes. That was before the new law was passed. However, regardless of what the Secretary of State has mentioned earlier, the previous law has already determined that this process of amending the budget is necessary. This is not the way the municipalities have done it, in most cases, in most cases, we know it. The new law, which will enter into force as of 2020, no longer provides for this. It provides for an easy option. Now I'm just asking what's so important about 2019 that we can't put this solution into effect for 2019. And I ask this assembly of reason to allow the municipalities the possibility to implement this solution already in 2019, not to wait until 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Maybe someone else would like a word to discuss it? If not, I conclude the debate on this agenda item. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 12. Period of the day, it's firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the motor vehicle laws. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u122	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues, greeted Secretary of State, citizens and citizens! Let me introduce a proposal for a law amending the Motor Vehicle Act. In practice, the adoption of the law placed bike owners with engines before almost insurmountable problems. Many of them had no or no ownership certificates and other documentation for their bicycles with an engine they bought ten years or more ago. The ownership of the vehicle must be demonstrated in the determination procedure, which is complex and long-term. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have talked a lot about this law in the previous term. This Act entered into force on 1 May 2017. When we talk about bureaucratic obstacles in the Republic of Slovenia, let me mention before I mention some other reasons that we currently have over 800 laws in Slovenia and over 19 thousand sub-laws. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the initiative of many citizens and citizens, we propose this law amending the Motor Vehicle Act on many citizens' initiatives, which of course very difficult to prove ownership of these mopeds, as we most often call them. A large number of financial obligations exist in the registration of these mopeds and, in particular, major difficulties in obtaining approval. When we talked about this law in the previous term, as I mentioned, it was a rough estimate that there were over 26,000 of these mopeds in Slovenia. Some data show, I hope, that it is true that, following the adoption of this Act on 1 May 2017, some 13,000 of these bicycles were registered. Of course, more than half remain unregistered. Here, however, there are major problems when people or owners do not obtain approval or the shops that bought these mopeds have not even obtained them. In addition, these mopeds are 10, 20 or 30 years old, so there are no conditions for obtaining these approvals. Of course, it is a great fear for all these citizens and citizens who have these mopeds, even for being stopped by a police officer, of course. The fine for such an offender is EUR 400. Of course, many of those who own these vehicles bought these vehicles to go to the country to the country, in smaller places to the store, in short, there are no indications that we are interfering with road safety here. Of course, it is necessary to look at people who have a pension of 300 or 400 euros so that they can't afford such a procedure, if possible. Therefore, our proposal, the main solution to this amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act, the suspension of mandatory registration by auxiliary engine or mopeds where the permanent spare engine power does not exceed four kilowatts and the design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. Let me also say that these engines have an average speed of 15 kilometers per hour. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State, for the benefit of all those who have these vehicles, I call on you and ask you, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to amend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you very much, proposer. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Nina Mahler, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The draft law on amendments to the Motor Vehicle Act, as proposed by the Group of Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 16 October 2018, is not supported by the Government of Slovenia. According to the material of the Proposal for a Law amending the Motor Vehicle Act, this law should abolish the obligation to register bicycles with auxiliary motors or so-called mopeds where the permanent rated power of the motor does not exceed 4 kilowatts and the maximum design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. However, it follows from the normative work that this proposal does not regulate the above, but lays down some other amendments. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore opposes the amendment of the law, as it abolishes the more favourable conditions with the proposed articles to demonstrate the indisputability of the ownership of mopeds whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, terminates the technical checks for these mopeds, officially suspends the registration procedures of all vehicles which would have been initiated before the entry into force of the proposed law, and for mopeds where the permanent rated power of the engine does not exceed 4 kilowatts and the design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour and which are already registered, terminates the extension. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes that change in the definition of ownership of mopeds whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, as the deletion of those provisions makes it difficult or even impossible to register these mopeds. It also opposes the abolition of shorter deadlines for technical reviews of these mopeds, as this increases costs for their owners. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the cessation of registration procedures for these vehicles, which would have been initiated before the implementation of the proposed law. That provision shall relate to all motor vehicles and trailers registered. The same is true of the provision which provides that mopeds with a fixed rated engine power not exceeding 4 kilowatts and a design speed not exceeding 25 kilometres per hour and which are already registered do not need to be extended. It is not clear from that provision what the extension refers to. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also opposes the additional condition regarding the permanent rated power of the engine. On the basis of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and, first of all, the SDS Parliamentary Group, on its behalf, Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Respected and respected! The Motor Vehicles Act, which entered into force in April 2011, has been amended several times as the law's consumers have seen some shortcomings in certain provisions of the law and there have also been dilemmas and differing interpretations of certain articles of the law. Among the reasons why the obligation to register mopeds was introduced, the applicant then cited in particular the provision of higher standards for the safety of all road users, the visibility of owners and mopeds and the insurance of potential injuries in traffic accidents with the mopeds concerned. In practice, the adoption of the law placed bike owners with a motor ahead of almost insurmountable problems. Many of them had no or no evidence of ownership and other documentation for their bicycle with an engine they purchased ten years ago. The ownership of the vehicle must be demonstrated in a finding procedure that is complex and long-term, for witnesses who confirm that they own a ten-year-old moped must be found. But things don't stop here. You've probably all read on social networks and in the media what the owners of these vehicles have been experiencing so far when they had to be in administrative units trying to prove their ownership of this moped and then register it. Everything was already bordering on comedy, unfortunately, a comedy of absurdity, because the law which introduced this obligation is nothing more than a way to charge the state budget and burden and empty the wallets of Slovenian taxpayers. The fact is, in older mopeds, it can also be entangled at a speed of 25 kilometers per hour. In fact, some bicycles powered by pedals are faster than 25 miles an hour without ever being processed. In addition to administrative obligations, the obligation to register mopeds also represents considerable financial obligations for their owners, which were often purchased by these vehicles on the basis of expectations of a smaller volume of such liabilities. The first problem will already occur at the time of approval. Many of the owners of these vehicles did not regulate the type-approval as they did not need to amend the legislation of this document. Today is the first question when someone wants to register a moped where they have an approval certificate. And all the time, these problems come up. The costs of this certificate are approximately €65. The condition is, of course, that moped owners have all the appropriate certificates, which they often do not have. The costs of the first registration are around EUR 100 and about EUR 40 each year. Therefore, if we sum up the costs incurred by the owner in regulating the registration of a moped whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, we will reach about EUR 100 plus about EUR 65 for type-approval. As we in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group estimate that the obligation to register mopeds whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour is an unnecessary burden on the people who bought these mopeds precisely because they did not require registration. One more time. So we're talking about mopeds that drive not more than 25 kilometers an hour, their average speed there is about 15 kilometers an hour or so. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, for the first time in April 2017, we also tabled the amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act and proposed the lifting of registration obligations. The coalition then rejected the proposal, so this year we re tabled an amendment to the law to withdraw this unnecessary taxation of citizens. The new Motor Vehicle Act, which is proposed, therefore removes the registration obligation for mopeds whose design speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. This unnecessary task, new administration and new taxation, the amendment of the law removes or withdraws from the obligations of citizens or owners of these mopeds. The proposed amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act will, of course, be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, and of course the rest of the National Assembly will be asked to do so. Finally, given that the new government is now in power, which has, among other things, promised to debirocraticize and remove administrative barriers and, of course, social sensitivities to the poor who have also purchased these mopeds most, we hope that you will support the change and thus enable moped owners to use them for what they have also acquired, and also for sustainable mobility and environmental awareness, as driving these mopeds relieves traffic and reduces pollution compared to heavy motorcycles and cars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Robert Pavšić next to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. One is bureaucracy, the other is security. The proposed changes in general transport safety and prevention would take a strong few steps back. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act would have more negative than positive effects. The suspension of compulsory registration and technical checks of bicycles with an auxiliary engine of not more than 25 kilometres per hour may be dangerous. Today, however, the law in force prevents this from happening. The applicant points out that there have been administrative difficulties in proving ownership, which is not realistic at all lately, as the evidence can use a finding procedure that effectively resolves this issue in practice. In fact, I spent five minutes in practice to resolve this matter. True, these anomalies have occasionally appeared in the past. It is also true that such vehicles are able to be processed to achieve higher speeds, but they are just technical checks, which are required to be carried out every five years under the applicable legislation, to prevent such abuses. In our opinion, insurance is also justified because, despite low speeds for vehicles that can weigh up to 100 kilograms or even more, and even at low speeds, collisions with such vehicles, whether on foot or car, can be very dangerous. In the event of potential traffic accidents, at least minimum safety is enabled on the part of drivers and other compulsory transport operators. Compliance with the rules also ensures, on the one hand, the traceability of ownership, because we know that in the past these unregistered vehicles have been stolen several times and it is now difficult to prove ownership. Compliance with the rules also ensures, on the one hand, the traceability of ownership due to the establishment of vehicle records and, on the other hand, greater safety due to mandatory technical checks and insurance. The Government also does not support the proposal in its opinion, as the safety of the transport participants would be severely reduced by this change. Because of all these changes to the law we do not support in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The next is the Group of the Social Democrats, Mr Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Motor Vehicles, submitted by Members and Members of the SDS, already constitutes a third attempt by the applicants in the last three years to be considered by the National Assembly. Please note that the Motor Vehicle Act was first adopted in 2016 and then amended and supplemented in 2017. The bill assesses that the existing law needs to be amended as insurmountable administrative obstacles and financial consequences for owners of so-called mopeds not exceeding 25 kilometres per hour are expected to arise. By removing the mandatory registration of bicycles with an auxiliary engine, these administrative obstacles and financial consequences for owners would disappear. In our parliamentary group, we believe that by adopting the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicles Act, we would step back from the regulation so far, which would prove to be a deterioration of the current situation in this area. The Motor Vehicle Act, which was adopted in 2017, has contributed, despite all the criticisms, to the improvement of the culture in transport, increased the safety of participants and also the traceability of these vehicles. With the existing law we have today regulated and known ownership of these vehicles, the thefts and escapes of the perpetrators from the site of the accident have decreased. This is some of the key things that have improved significantly with the existing law. According to our assessment, the law currently in force has raised the standard of transport safety and, above all, has contributed to the achievement of the transport policy objective in the area of preventive action and the active involvement of citizens and citizens. Dear Members and Members! In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the proposal for a law amending the Motor Vehicles Act is not suitable for further consideration for those reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mr Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Today we have yet another recycled bill tabled by the SDS Group in this legislative process. Although the solutions already proposed by the SDS in the previous mandate have proved inadequate, the proposals for laws providing for identical solutions are once again on sent-off benches. The same is true in the case of the Motor Vehicle Act, by which the applicant wishes to terminate the mandatory registration of mopeds. In 2016, an obligation to register mopeds was introduced by the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act and the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act, including the technical review and conclusion of basic insurance. The minimum age limit for users of these vehicles and the obligation to use a protective helmet has been established. In the debate at the time, the opposition objected to the consideration of the draft laws, despite the support of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, the professional public. At that time, discussions on the registration of mopeds were extensive. In doing so, the SDS has always referred to the impossible administrative and financial obstacles that the owners of these motor vehicles are expected to face at the time of registration of the moped. This is also true today, which does not really surprise us. The identical proposal is subject to identical arguments. Regardless of the fact that it has been repeatedly said about the purpose of the mandatory registration, we are also now expecting the opposition to criticise the mandatory registration of mopeds. Again, the essence of the introduction of mandatory registration for mopeds is clear: to establish greater control over the ownership of these vehicles, leading to a reduction in the number of infringements of road traffic regulations, to facilitate the identification and traceability of offenders and to reduce the number of places. It is true that certain maternity problems related to the proof of ownership arose when the compulsory registration became effective, but the Ministry sent clarifications and guidelines to the registration organisations, allowing the owners to easily register. Today, there are no more obstacles. Given that the official ownership record has been established and that more than 13 000 such motor vehicles have been registered from May 2017 to the end of October 2018, it can be argued that the amendments adopted have provided higher safety standards for the use of mopeds, the recognition of moped owners and the insurance of potential damage to traffic accidents involving moped drivers. The registration of these mopeds has brought several advantages for moped owners, and let me point out only some. The owners of these mopeds are also allowed to participate smoothly in road transport in other countries. For example, regulation is comparable in neighbouring countries. Due to the provisions adopted, the sale of mopeds is more controlled since in the past it was the sellers who sold inadequate, non-approved mopeds. These mopeds also have mandatory car insurance, which of course also means protecting the injured and injured in traffic accidents involving these mopedists. Since the Motor Vehicle Act provides that the application for registration of a vehicle should, inter alia, be accompanied by a certificate of technical integrity of the vehicle, the proposed amendments have a direct impact on the deterioration of traffic safety. In the SMC Group, we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Ms Natasa Sukić has the following word on behalf of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u134	President, thank you very much for your word. Your Honor! If the importance of different content is assessed by the frequency of their treatment in the National Assembly, then the legal regulation of mopeds not exceeding 25 kilometres per hour is certainly among the more pressing social problems. Not crying, not working rights, not protecting the environment, not the long waiting line in health, not corruption, but driving mopeds that do not exceed 25 kilometers per hour. Thus, at the first meeting of the new meeting of the National Assembly at the request of the SDS, we are discussing again the mopeds that we discussed three times in the previous reference. It all started when Nova Slovenija introduced a new Law on Road Traffic Rules. The reason for this novelty was the chaos caused by the loose rules on the participation of these vehicles in road transport. We all, both coalition and opposition, agreed at that time that this area should be regulated. But since the law came from the opposition at that time, unfortunately it did not go through. The previous coalition then submitted a package of novelties, but in a way that requires registration for mopeds whose speed does not exceed 25 kilometers an hour. In addition to causing unnecessary costs, it shall also require proof of the origin and ownership of the vehicle, a certificate of conformity, evidence of the insurance concluded and evidence of technical integrity or technical inspection. The position of the Left was and remains that mopeds and auxiliary bikes must be marked so that they can be identified. Let me remind you that one of the reasons why bicycle status began to be regulated by the auxiliary engine was that identification of these vehicles was not possible. In the event of traffic accidents, dangerous driving, offences and the risk of road traffic by drivers of these vehicles, this was not possible before. In addition, it is not only about participants in transport. Young moped drivers often linger and ride through playgrounds where peers, children, or those currently there are at risk. Therefore, since it was unregistered vehicles, it was entirely impossible to identify the driver in the event of an escape from the crash site. In Levica, we therefore agree with the proposaler that registration of mopeds whose maximum design speed is not more than 25 kilometres per hour presents on the one hand a great administrative burden for their owners and causes unnecessary costs, but we believe that these vehicles must be marked in such a way as to enable their identification on the road. Since the law does not introduce an alternative method of labelling and identification, but merely deletes the mandatory registration of these vehicles, we will not support the first reading of the bill. If the amendments to the bill introducing the possibility of identifying the vehicles under consideration are tabled and also adopted in the future, we will reconsider the support for the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much! The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Aleksander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u136	Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Traffic safety and related protection of all road users is the goal of all of us. The National Road Safety Programme 2013-2022 as a strategic document in this area sets a vision of nothing for its long-term objective. So, nothing dead or badly damaged by traffic accidents. For us Members of New Slovenia consider every life, so in May 2016 we proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Safety Act, which included bicycles and bicycles with an auxiliary engine of up to 50 cubic metres of volume. The difference between the scooter and the so-called twenty-five and the stronger bikes with the engine is only in electronics that limit speed. With regard to other characteristics, everything is the same: weight, size, leadership and, unfortunately, speed. You don't have to have a driver's license to drive them. The auxiliary engine wheel did not need to register and perform the technical inspection, nor could it be secured. Drivers were not required to ride it with a safety helmet. All of these were the reasons why in Nova Slovenija we proposed to set the lowest age limit for auxiliary bike drivers, 14 years and mandatory use of safety helmets up to the age of 18. We have also proposed the conclusion of compulsory basic insurance, as in the motorcycle category. In the event of an accident caused by a traffic accident, the insurance policy would be liable. The total cost of the owner under this heading would be around EUR 30. We also proposed mandatory use of identification plates. We stress that the identification plate would not be a license plate, as this bike would not have to be registered, but the competent administrative authority would have entered the bicycle with the auxiliary engine, based on the concluded purchase contract, into the registration of the bicycles with the auxiliary engine. Just as today's proposal for the Government is not acceptable, our proposal was not adopted in 2016, despite the amendments tabled to remove most of the concerns and despite the support of the professional public. There is no doubt that the proposal was tabled by Nova Slovenije and not by a coalition. The SMC party submitted its proposal for the amendment of the same law and the Motor Vehicle Act as soon as the decision of the National Assembly was first considered to be appropriate for further consideration. Well, the difference between our proposal and the government is huge. The auxiliary engine wheel is now classified among motor bikes, which means almost the same obligation for their owners as for motor vehicles: a technical inspection and registration every five years because they need to have a registration plate, and not only a registration plate that would allow only the identification of the owner, as proposed by Christian Democrats. If the Government considers today's proposal to be flawed and inaccurate, it can be improved by amendments. Today's proposal in Nova Slovenija is welcomed because it removes pointless bureaucratic obstacles due to the legal obligation to register colleagues with an auxiliary engine. We will support the proposal for amendments to the Motor Vehicle Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position on behalf of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Again, there is an attempt to remove registrations of mopeds that do not exceed 25 kilometres per hour with the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act. Last year's May has made a commitment that these mopeds must be registered. Applicants in the explanatory memorandum state that the mandatory registration of mopeds to owners of mopeds presents insurmountable administrative obstacles and complications. When we look at the number of registered mopeds, we see that at the end of October there were slightly less than 14 thousand mopeds registered, while at the same time the number of registrations of other mopeds has increased, which means greater transparency and traceability of these increasingly popular means of transport. Let me remind you why, in the previous term, we have even approached the introduction of a mandatory registration of mopeds which does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. At that time, Nova Slovenija first warned about the problem of these mopeds. What was the problem? Many of these mopeds were processed to reach a much higher speed than 25 kilometers per hour. Drivers did not use protective equipment while driving on pedestrians and cycling routes, they were uncontrollable, but if they caused a traffic accident, many fled the scene and the police could virtually not track them because the mopeds were unregistered. At the same time, the injured party could not enforce the claim for compensation because the vehicles were unprotected. In cooperation with the competent ministry, the coalition, of which our parliamentary group was part, prepared a novel introducing a mandatory registration of mopeds not exceeding 25 kilometres per hour, wearing helmets where drivers can choose whether they will have an approved, cycling or motorcycle helmet. Moped drivers must be at least 12 years old. In the event of a passenger being transported, the driver shall not be less than 16 years old. Driving in pedestrian areas is also prohibited. In the Desus Group, we also requested that the technical examination of mopeds be carried out only every 5 years after the first registration, which was later recorded in the law with the last amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act. This means that our request has also reduced the cost of technical checks, which, as I have already mentioned, is implemented for these specific mopeds every five years. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that the introduction of registration of mopeds where the design speed does not exceed the above-mentioned 25 kilometres per hour has contributed significantly to the greater traffic safety of the more vulnerable road users, so we will not support this proposal of the amendment to the Motor Vehicles Act, as we believe that the proposed solutions would undermine traffic safety if adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much. As the last one, the SNS Emissary Group is on the move. The position will be presented by Mr Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u140	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. In the preparation of the proposal for an amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act, the aim is to eliminate the insurmountable administrative obstacles already too much and the complications which place before owners the legal obligation to register mopeds where the permanent rated power of the engine does not exceed 4 kilowatts and the design speed specified does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. Amendments to the abolition of Article 30, paragraph 3, and Article 49, paragraph 1, point 3, seek to abolish the obligation to register mopeds whose speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour and to abolish technical checks for these mopeds. What, though, will happen if these 25 - km - to - hour engines remove the blockades and move faster? The Slovenian national party does not support the proposal for a law amending the Motor Vehicle Act, mainly because it does not abolish what it wants to eliminate. The amendments relate to paragraphs 30 and 49 of the Act in question. The conditions for registration are laid down in Article 30 and the conditions for technical inspection are laid down in Article 49. The proposed amendment does not remove the registration and technical review obligation, but merely changes the content of the current law, which currently contains more favourable conditions for dealing with the owners of these vehicles compared to other owners. While we welcome the proposed amendment in the party, we believe it is good for people, but the proposal is not sufficiently professional. The correct change would be achieved in the way that the deletion of those provisions is proposed, while the exception in the preceding paragraphs or points relating to mopeds at which the speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour should be established. By deleting the third paragraph of the law, the law provides that the second paragraph of Article 30 shall apply. Accordingly, an appropriate amendment to this second paragraph should also be proposed at the same time. Same situation at 49. The second point applicable in general to all other vehicles shall apply to the Article when the third point is proposed to be deleted. In this case, an exception should also be proposed in the second point for mopeds whose speed does not exceed 25 kilometres per hour. If the marriage is good and professionally prepared for the future and good for the people, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you very much. This concludes with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. The first is Mr Joseph Horvat, who is not currently in the Chamber. Excuse me? As a proposaler, I give the floor first to Mr Podkrodsk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. For the fifth year, I am a member of the National Assembly, but it has not happened that the representative of the Government or the Ministry is in such a hurry that they do not even have time to listen to the views of the groups. This is, of course, one relationship at today's meeting to this law and, of course, a general attitude towards citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This law, the amendment of this law has been tabled by a parliamentary group of at least 25 Members, many, at least on this side, also support this amendment of the law, and I find this attitude of the secretary of state to the bill strange. It is probably a little more difficult for those who were not in the previous call of the National Assembly, which represented the position. The representative, in the previous assembly, named the largest SMC party, this amendment of the law as recycling. I've already said in my opinion that we've been dealing with this law for a long time, and I'll tell you why. In the greatest, then the coalition party was beheaded, for it was still Zorčič's law. And the voters have also recycled from the previous term to the present term. I have to say one example, when he was in my office, sir, who somehow knew how to get all the documentation that would allow him to have this moped, whose average speed is 15 kilometres per hour, of course, registered with me with great effort, but he gave me his financial structure as a member of the National Assembly and asked me if I could explain to him that every month he had a table, that he had to live his wife with a small pension, if I could give him an answer, how could I register that emergency vehicle that he needed to go to the store, because he didn't have a child or neighbors, that it was the only possible means of transport for him, but also he realized that it had nothing to do with road safety. Of course, I must admit that with this question he has made me very confused. Dear colleagues and colleagues sitting in this National Assembly certainly do not accompany us because we are so popular, but they follow us because they are interested in what laws we make, whether our decisions or the proposals we make will make it easier for us to live tomorrow and better or worse. That's the only reason we're probably being followed through the media. Of course, we often act as if we don't care how they live tomorrow. Probably many of us who accompany this meeting today do not care what someone will do tomorrow, but we are also talking about people who have this means of transport that they urgently need, they do not have other means of transport that they bought 10, 20 or 30 years ago, they have neither approval for these vehicles nor ownership, but there is no doubt that it is not their property. And, of course, after so many years, 20 or 10 years, and by adopting this law in 2017, which came into force on 1 May 2017, we have made their lives miserable here on this segment. You know, a lot of citizens and citizens still have a reckoning of how they're going to spend a month of 300, 400 or 500 euros. Every euro. And these are citizens and citizens who regularly pay the bills, all the taxes and pay everything honestly. Of course, when we are specifically talking about this law today, we are saying that road safety will decrease. Perhaps one of you has recalculated? Last year, we also found that when we considered this amendment of the law, that these mopeds we are talking about, that's what we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're talking about, we're And of course, all the companies that are involved in registering these engines that are providing documentation so that these mopeds can be registered will earn over EUR 4 million. Over 4 million euros. Only if 26,000 of these mopeds want approval will it cost 1.5 million euros. Today, we speak this way on the left or the right, some of which will make road safety worse. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is irresponsible to all those who are hard to live. Of course, one can buy motors that will not be in this category at all, which can travel for the most 25 kilometers an hour, and their average speed is 15 kilometers. And of course we are charging them financially, so today many of us, especially from the Government, expect the camera to show that the government chairs are empty, and again, it happened for the first time in five years that the government representative did not have 20 minutes to listen to representatives of the sent groups, whether they like it or not. With all due respect to all those who gave your views to the members of the groups, you probably did not get it in the hallway somewhere, you had to prepare it and present it today to all of us, Members and Members of Parliament, and to the entire Slovenian public. It's so irresponsible of the government. In this law that we are talking about today — and we have heard that we have spent a lot of time in the previous term — there is also room for change. I therefore call on all of you, who will still be discussing today, when you decide that you have in mind people, our citizens and citizens, who are the only means of transport for them in the countryside, so that they can go to the country, in the smaller places of trade, to register this vehicle that does not make road safety very difficult. Today we have heard information that 13,000 of these vehicles were registered in the Republic of Slovenia, half of them still waiting, about 13,000. The fine for such a driver is, however, 400 euros when stopped by a policeman. Many of the citizens and citizens do not even have EUR 400 in pension. When you decide to do so, consider this segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much, proposer. We are now really starting a debate between Members and Members. The first is Mrs Janja Slug, and Gregor Perič is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I can very much agree with this, because now colleague Podkrodšek has spoken, and of course I am also aware of this, but every medal always has two rewards. The truth is, what we have on the table today has absolutely nothing to do with what you've been talking about. Because what we have on the table actually removes the milder conditions set by the Motor Vehicle Act for technical checks for mopeds up to 25 kilometers per hour. Because you actually delete what you've proposed for these mopeds specifically for better and easier user procedures. So if we do what you are now proposing, the conditions for technical examinations will be sharpened for mopeds up to 25 kilometres per hour, from a period of five years to a period of five years, as is now the case under this applicable law, they will undergo technical checks such as mopeds up to 45 kilometers per hour, which is significantly stricter because they have them for four, two and one years. And by doing so, you are increasing both administrative and financial implications for the owners of these vehicles, which are the most discussed today, it is said, on these financial consequences. And I just can't agree with that. I think it's enough that they're doing this for five years. As to the purpose pursued by the law when registration and ownership of mopeds was introduced up to 25 kilometres an hour, there are other things to say. This definitely affects traffic safety. Why? Because that's exactly what these mopeds use in the youth, our children. And it is right to examine them, it is right to determine whether it is actually mopeds that travel only up to 25 kilometres per hour, or, as it was found at that time, when certain mopeds were registered that, of course, a number of mopeds had been identified, for the first time that they were technically not faultless, and for the second time that they were sold as moped up to 25, but it is not, or that they were subsequently converted to exceed greater speeds, which of course has an impact on road safety. And the numbers we've obtained show that in the first half of the year after the law was enacted, there were more than 11,000 200 mopeds up to 25 kilometres per hour, but at the same time it has increased significantly, almost once, even the number of mopeds up to 45 kilometers per hour, which is what it says, in the interest of what I said is very important in terms of security, that these matters are reviewed and that it is actually determined what their speed is. At the same time, the law regulated the ownership of mopeds, found that if any of them were stolen, insurance was arranged that in the event of accidents when these vehicles were involved and not so few, the injured person could actually enforce insurance and, of course, third parties. As it was said, by the end of October 2018, this year, more than 13 thousand 500 of these mopeds had been registered. But there's one more thing to say. Definitely at the beginning of the entry into force of the law, there were problems with proof of ownership, acquisition and so on, of course all of us sitting here were probably informed on the ground. Individuals have also addressed us in this regard. And of course that's what you have to say, there were problems. But the problem was because the discretionary right of every person who carried out these procedures was such that the person could decide for himself which documents he wanted to obtain in order to carry out this procedure. And there was no single practice here. This has, of course, been resolved by very precise instructions issued by the Ministry, particularly in relation to the ownership process, regarding the documents required for this purpose, and so on. It is necessary to be honest and also to say that these problems are no longer, that things have settled very quickly, that we say so, and that in fact, no major problems can be detected in these procedures. And speaking of security, of course, it must also be said that the law in question, when it was adopted, was also adopted because there is a whole lot of traffic accidents in which these vehicles are involved. And we are always talking about how dangerous Slovenian roads are, how to reduce the number of injuries in traffic accidents and, of course, also the number of deaths in traffic accidents, and therefore, in the past, this country has adopted certain documents, certain strategies, certain consensus on how we will all act together to achieve these goals, as we want to achieve them at European Union level. And we communicate all the time, and we support all the Members all the time. And now to take a step in the other direction, I really don't think it's reasonable. This law was in line with the Resolution of the National Road Safety Programme 2013-2022. It follows all the principles contained in this resolution. And since the responses in the field are ultimately positive, because many things have been arranged that were previously unregulated and there are even more positive effects in the field and in other areas, I do not think it makes sense to change this now. In particular, it is not appropriate to make this change in the way the proposer proposes that, in fact, precisely for those owners whom we want to relieve, the conditions are now further exacerbated and they are, in fact, even more burdensome financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Gregor Perič. But get ready, Mr. Jean Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. We are faced with a problem that we have dealt with several times in this house, and I believe that we are also a little tired because we would like to hear, if not another, something new, what a fresh argument, but obviously they are not. To me, a media presentation fell heavily into my eye, so one report in a week I'm not going to call it, and you probably imagine why, who reported this issue so critically with one bomb address that says Law in mopeds caused problems. It is immediately written in one of the subtitles: The Ministry of Infrastructure does not allow registration of a vehicle without compliance with the rules in force in the European Union. Yes, thank God he doesn't allow them, because what we've been listening to today and what we've been listening to, it's just some attempts to completely relax this area and practically anyone can move with anything. I have something to point out or something. Since I come from Primorska, i.e. from the coastal work, from Istria, where the climate is much nicer than in other regions of Slovenia, this problem was even more present with us and did not concentrate only on that warm part of the year, i.e. in the summer of spring and autumn, but it reached practically throughout the year if there was no severe rain. And while this law was gone, until this area was settled, there was literally chaos on our streets on our sidewalks, in a coastal sense, a casino. It's just that people didn't feel safe on the road, so the motorists never knew when someone would fly in front of their car from every possible angle, either from the pedestrian crossing, from the sidewalk, from any greenery. The pedestrians also did not feel safe because these vehicles were used practically on all surfaces. So, on the road, on bike paths, on pedestrian crossings and on surfaces reserved for pedestrians. The additional problem was also a fact, and this has also proved to be a simple problem with interviews with police officers if they did not have all the conditions met, two, three patrols that could close the area, simply did not pass and were not hunting road traffic offenders, because the only way to do so would be to make further complications, to make the case safe. Of course, they didn't even know who they were hunting because these vehicles were simply without any identification numbers. In short, the confusion was really perfect. With this solution, with the solutions provided by law, the situation on our streets today – I hope we live on the same planet – is much better. He's back in some order, and there's no such excesses. But there's someone there who's very brave and he's also breaking the rules, but he probably doesn't do it very long because he's fast-tracked. Those vehicles, those so-called twenty-fives that appeared, at least for Isola could safely claim, but it seemed somehow that this vehicle was defended by all plastics, all that was extra and excess weight, had no light, had no other means of signalling and probably also processed and it was swinging around the city here and there. Today on our streets, thank God, and roads and anywhere else we don't see. I thank the one who helped, helped make this marriage go through. Now, whether we call it Zorčič’s law or whatever else, this law has been adopted by the National Assembly, and this law is good and is especially beneficial. We have also heard a number of arguments, which I think are a response or feedback to something that is no longer on the ground. In the beginning, when this law was implemented, it came, as we have already heard today, also the fellow Servant mentioned, to various interpretations and to the discretion of individual officials in the administrative units, but it was also very quickly resolved with a guidance that unified this area. In his presentation, a colleague from LMŠ explained earlier that he spent exactly 5 minutes on ownership arrangements. So wherever there is will, there's a way, I'm sure. The content of the law itself enforces or introduces some additional institutions. And all these institutes are designed to make safety on our roads and sidewalks bigger. So it's a technical review of the case files for greater security. The approval or certificate of conformity of the vehicle with the regulations shall also contribute to some safety. Because it was also irresponsible on the part of those who imported certain vehicles from, I don't know, but they also sold different parts of the world and didn't have approval for them, now the proposaler is trying to explain it – the law is the problem. No, it is not a law problem, the problem is these vehicles because they are not compatible and are not safe, and those who use them are exposed to disproportionate risks, because when there is a problem, when there is either a traffic accident or anything else, it will be a problem for all of us, society and especially for those who may have been in such a situation, and it may have just passed. It's about insurance. So it's also insurance that provides some kind of security. This is about a registration that ensures traceability. It is also mandatory to use a helmet, and this helmet is not for anyone else, but it is for the participant or operator of this vehicle. Once again, we have achieved less infringement of road traffic rules because control of ownership has been possible since the entry into force of the law, it has not been possible before, and the traceability of violators is also possible. At the same time, it also provides greater security over vehicle thefts. And here we are also aware of what was going on. I will conclude with another thought of the Romans, the ancient Romans, that good laws create bad habits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The following shall have the floor of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you again for the floor, Madam Vice President. Now, of course, I listened with all due respect to the two representatives of the Modern Centre Party. We did not, nor did I say before, when I presented this change, nor in the position of our Group of Members was it seen that everything was precisely defined. I think that with the amendments there is a possibility that if we have one common goal, a clear common goal for a change, it is possible, of course, to put everything into place and complete it between the first and the second readings. My colleague in front of me was talking about Koper. I totally believe him. I believe that even in Ljubljana or in Maribor, larger cities, some minor or young with full energy, by their own words, are wild with these engines. But see, respected colleagues and colleagues, these mopeds, as we call them, we have between 26 and 30 thousand in Slovenia. Since I come from the countryside, and I am very much a member of the people, I was elected to three congregations, I have not yet encountered someone in my congregation in Zreška Pohorje who is wild with a moped that has a maximum speed of 25 kilometers per hour or an average speed of 15 kilometers. For these people, it's an emergency means of transport that they didn't get on the flight, but it's hard to buy, and they need it every day. Once again, I am not saying that the law, the amendment of the law, is complete. Since she is a representative of the government, I am pleased, once again with us, if the obedience of the Government, of all of us Members and Members is that we want those who, more than 13,000 of these owners, are out of the system, and you must be aware that these owners will be grossed by the police and that those who do not even have EUR 400 will be paid a fine of EUR 400. Can we imagine what it means to someone who is not even worth his moped?Oh, my God! But it can go because now I'm going to talk about my area, in the Zreške Pohorje, 15 kilometers an hour. Let us consider additions and changes!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic now has the floor and Mr Doblekar should be prepared as the last debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I can make this public, given that it's already been recorded in the media, or he wasn't giving you this idea because I believe you'll be doing it soon, but let's take a look. Go to the Web site Pass, type in the electric skier and you will see that there is an electric skier that reaches a speed of 25 kilometers per hour. Now somebody tell me what the difference is between an electric skir, which goes just as fast as a moped, up to 25 kilometers an hour. Also, the electric skier, someone who knows it, connects it to the computer, gives it a nice haircut, and the brakes on this electric bike can cancel because it has two brakes, one is the last one, the leg, which works worse than the one that is attached to the engine or to this electrical thing. However, the electric skipper does not need to be registered, it does not need to be approved, it does not need to be protected, but the moped does not need to be approved. Why is that? Even then, there were electric skiers when this law was passed, and it was not necessary to ride a helmet with an electric skier. Why such differences? That it's a safety issue here, it's gone. However, if it were lobbying, I think it would have been true, because in the previous term, when this law was passed, at least in this part we were united in the case of a typical case of lobbyist law. It's a typical case of logistic law. Now, Mr Zorčič has already advocated this at the time, intensively, now running for mayor in Brežice, we will see. Well, let's just leave it at that. Look, those of us who've ever done anything have a haircut, that by their own words, mopeds, engines, we know that what some people say, how this brings greater security, is not true. The class, then the village went to work, says 15 years ago, exam for H category up to 50 cubic meters. After that, I bought the engine, my first engine, or then up to 50 cubic meters, which they say is not an engine at all, Aprilio RS 50. By all means and by all means that was then in force, which is still in force today, the engine should go 30 miles an hour. As a typical youth who was excited about engines, I did — what? The engine got a haircut, got out of the roadblocks, like the rest of the bikes we were driving, and that engine went 120 miles an hour. When there was a technical checkup, I put the blocks back, I took him for a technical checkup, went through when I got home, picked up the roadblocks, and the thing was what it was. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be blinded that this isn't happening right now, despite the fact that you've adopted such a law. When someone takes a moped for a technical checkup, they do it by going through, but the one who doesn't get a haircut so that they have to change it in order to go through a technical checkup, and they're not a problem anyway. Most of them use these mopeds in the countryside to go to the store to visit someone to go to the forest to go to the field. The other one's in the cities. Most of the time. However, let me tell you how much risk has been reduced, how much less traffic and other accidents have been caused by how much damage has been recovered and so on. Above all, it answers that first question, what is the difference between this and the electric skir, which none of this applies to, or even to bicycles. Well, it's just that a bicycle, like a specialty, can reach more than 25 kilometers an hour, and something can happen, and there can be an accident. How's the damage? Will you also require registration of bicycles? I don't know, I don't know. Or maybe you'll put that label back in place, which was also a typical lobbyist example of how a company near the then LDS served at the expense of citizens and citizens. In short, don't go blind. This law did not contribute to additional security because, for the first time, those who either bought a new engine or had it already had it was flawless, never processed, you never had a problem anyway. However, those who have such mopeds that have out-of-the-box blockades, which have their frigids, go once a year when it comes to a technical inspection, get them into a flawless state, as far as the legal basis is concerned, and when they come home, things are the same again before the technical review. That's a fact. And no law will prevent this, but the damage is done to the industry, the damage is done to Tomos, the damage is done to those who are in this area and you or not all of them, those who have not been here before, but you will be very involved if you do not support this proposal. We can talk in the second reading, there can be another amendment, the matter changes, however. See how many accidents there are with other participants, with other motor vehicles in road traffic, but the issue is applicable, 25 to 30 thousand there are about such vehicles, 25 to 30 thousand in all but not 65 euros, for all approvals was not a problem. Even when you started the SMC type-approval at the time, I don't know what the logic was, if you're proving ownership, that you had to be full-year-old at the time you got this moped, and you need two witnesses who are 15 years older than you. Perhaps a number of older ones have a problem with getting such a witness in the first place. But, I'm saying, someone is, we know who the proponent was, but someone is in this case, I hope to say that he cashed heavily, as in the case of labels at the time of the last LDS government. And today we have the opportunity to correct this mistake, which was made in the previous mandate, and to take a step against citizens and citizens. We have introduced this law, some of you have said that for the second or third time now, we have introduced this law because we have also put it into the pre-election programme, and by the end of the term, if we do not get ahead of ourselves, we will make laws and you can expect the things we have promised citizens and citizens in our pre-election programme. In practice, this law has proved to be nothing more than an additional cost for taxpayers or, in this case, for 25 to 30,000 citizens and citizens who have these mopeds for, if we say so, everyday tasks. Certainly not for these mopeds to show up because this moped is no luxury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much. As the final debater, Mr Boris Doblekar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! Today we are talking about the amendment of the bike law with the engine, the light, small vehicle that reaches 25 km/h or the average speed of 15 km/h. In all of this, in the course of the various debates that I respect, like all of you, honourable Members and Members, everyone has the right to his or her opinion, but many times it seems to me that this opinion is against his or her own opinion, but only because we are proposing this, if we do, we will not support it and we will try to prove the opposite to all the squabbling. It is often referred to as the reason for rejecting this proposal for road safety, but I have found nothing in the Government's explanation that road safety would deteriorate by driving these bikes or by using these mopeds up to 25 km/h or up to 4 kW. If you think a little about it, with a vehicle that goes slower than a bicycle or a bicycle on a battery or a skier or the end of a skier or a runner, the person who walks a little faster on the road goes slower than all of these — why would this vehicle or the driver cause traffic problems? There have been several cases of road disorder caused by these vehicles and so on. You know, this car ride could be a kind of wild ride, an experience, if we can call it a 15-mile-an-hour diva, it's just a little time-consuming ride or, I'd say, like, a little city walk, maybe that's what's going on. But something is necessary to use this vehicle. As some of my colleagues and colleagues have already said, these vehicles are usually available to low-income people with little money to make useful use of these vehicles. Not to show up and drive around the city now and, I don't know, endanger traffic safety, but to use this vehicle for emergency purposes. It has already been said that about 13,000 of these vehicles have already been registered under this law. All those who went through this calvary to register these vehicles – we have also heard an example that this process of identifying ownership can be completed for five minutes and so on – perhaps even for some. But we also have cases where it took hours, hours, days, years. 13 000 of these vehicles are not registered at all, which means that the question is whether ownership is even proven. And why aren't these vehicles registered? Probably because it is an additional cost and because people cannot afford it, but also because of the complicated process of proof of ownership. We have many cases, many of which were also in the media, some of which you have also mentioned to the coalition itself, but I have not heard any cases when, for example, the moped year 1969 was purchased and the owner must be at least 66 years old and the witnesses 81 years old. These are examples from practice, from life. Cases like this happen. Or when a person owns such a bicycle, 1930s, it is a veteran, it also respects the vehicle and keeps it and maintains it. But if he wants to prove ownership, he should be a 105-year-old owner and 120-year-old witness. These are also the anomalies of this law. And there aren't many cases like this. Many people drive these vehicles, even though they are not registered because of these problems and then pay fines, pay penalties to the police or to the state, only because they cannot afford transport with anything else and then pay a fine because they could not arrange everything, could not afford it or could not go through for such and other reasons. This is said to people by this law — and you continue or do not want to change — to cause additional unnecessary costs for such vehicles at such a low speed. Ecology should also be mentioned. These vehicles are more environmentally friendly than the others. They have fewer exhausts. We keep talking about some sustainable mobility and so on, but there is no incentive to feel it or to actually be inclined to do so. You're saying there's no more trouble. And I think there are still problems, even for these 13,000 vehicles that are not registered. I think the owners of these vehicles are still in a lot of trouble if they want to do that. Therefore, we propose to amend and abolish this stupid law, which requires that vehicles of an average speed of 15 kilometres per hour are registered. There was a lot of talk about this law when we proposed it. It will probably be today too, but once again I call for us to be life, human, people who are more socially weak, as you point out, let us help the socially weak. And once again, traffic safety has not improved completely, unless you can prove it with some data, but I haven't seen it. Let us support this proposal to change this law and allow people to drive and take advantage of these small light vehicles if they have them at home, if they own them. If you do not think that this is necessary, which is also understood from your discussions, then you will have to explain to citizens and citizens why you do not support it. But I believe that many of you would support such a change if we were not committed to a common political decision or option. So much for me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you very much for the last debater. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you again for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I must say that I may be a little sad at some point because we are so unequal to citizens and citizens, and I will try to tell you this on behalf of the proposer. For a moped that is already two hours old, 20 or 30 years old or 10 years old, which is worth 500 euros or 400 or 600, according to one of my non-professional estimates, you need to prove the ownership of two Witnesses. You need two witnesses who are older – now I don't know who, from the engine or from the owner, for at least 15 years. But everything was happening in the same reference. But those who have collected from the NLB and from the banks of our common money for millions, need nothing, drive today with the most modern cars, can pay a fine, there is no amount of fine that they cannot pay. However, those who bought a moped, which has a maximum speed of 25 kilometres per hour, have already been told, and I will tell you this a hundred times, and the average speed of 15 kilometres per hour takes two witnesses to drive from 1 May 2017 to arrange the type-approval, and the minimum income they receive must be paid at the beginning of at least 160 euros. So much for us all who represent and have been elected by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Meaning, those who have our millions, of all those who listen to us today, do not need anything, but those who have bought this emergency vehicle for their money, hard to earn, need two witnesses. I do not condemn you, because you are mostly new Members, but I do not condemn you that this law has been passed. Yes, the number of hands or keys were pressed to go into effect, but I also have great concerns from today's debate that there's a strong lobby in the back. Lobi, which will collect around €4 million from 26,000 owners of these vehicles. During the first May, many citizens and citizens have written or come to us that they have problems and that there are more than 13,000 euros left outside of this system – whether they are not obtaining approval or unable to regulate ownership, they cannot use these vehicles in short. Let me go back to those millions. Those who have millions in their pockets are happily driving around Slovenia and around the world, and those of us we are talking about today must put these engines in their garages, lock them up if the police get them, and pay a fine of 400 euros every day. That's the difference between each other, but we all live in the same country, we all have the same stomachs and hands all. That's why I'm sad when you don't want to listen. I was disappointed, Madam Secretary, when you didn't even listen to the views of the parliamentary groups, but be aware of what we are talking about in this National Assembly, in this Chamber, the problems of our citizens and citizens are. This is not like the law of the Slovenian Democratic Party or New Slovenia. This is our people's problem, and that's why it's right to talk about it here and look for solutions. Probably a boring session for someone today, perhaps even a funny one, but be aware that these owners will also meet you on the street, even in Koper or Pohorje or in Dolenjska, Prekmurje. It's not easy for people, even though sometimes it's funny for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you very much. You've got your word. However, since the time set for the debate remained, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss the matter under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. I'm opening a debate. Please sign in. The first one has the floor, Mr. Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you, lovely Vice President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the time of the electoral campaign, we made very clear what we will do for the people when the elections are concluded. We have also written this in our pre-election programme, and that is what we are doing today. We keep our word, we keep our promise, we do what we say. Let's go back to this marriage. I will also support the law that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. With this law, we want to annul the law that SMC and Zorčič have tabled in the parliamentary procedure in the previous term and has also succeeded. I'm very sad, I must say that Mr. Zorčič is not even here today. It would be nice, it would be responsible to explain to people once again how he was able to lobby for this law to be brought through parliamentary procedure. Even in the National Assembly there were many people, then also Members and Members, some of you are still here today, who voted in favour, others against. But unfortunately, people went through this lobbying law through parliamentary procedure. Today, those who voted in favour of this law, which is definitely harmful – then I will try to say why – perhaps today, you have the opportunity to change your mind and decide for the good of people. Decided for the good of the people. This law that we propose helps those who are the poorest in our society. All of us sitting in this national assembly should be well aware of this. These are mostly people who can't buy a Ferrari, can't buy a lamborghinium, can't buy a Kawasaki engine, Honda and so on, thousands of cubicles and more. These are the people who get through a lot of trouble from month to month. And it's really distasteful and very unfair to put new problems on these people's backs. We did it with this law. Today there was much to be said, a full explanation of why we proposed this law. I'm not going to go into the details. However, I am very clear that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are aware of the pressure of people, we are aware of what 150, 200 euros per year means to many people in the countryside. And on the other hand — these people, some who were unable to register these vehicles today, had the only means of transport from one part of their farm to the other, perhaps to the store as we discussed today. These are the facts that we know — those who live in the countryside, who walk among those people, and who find it difficult to break through from month to month. I'm sure those of you sitting here in the National Assembly must have a feeling for the people. Otherwise, you have been chosen by the lobby, elected by those through whom, through the legislation you then take through the National Assembly, you realize their interests in the background. Those lobbying behind this Zorčič law — on the one hand, surely is the devouring country led by Mira Cerar, on the other hand, certainly or most likely by some insurance companies and so on. Someone here, like my colleague, the proposaler Bojan Podkoršek, has already made very clear the debate here in the introduction. I think that Members and Members of the National Assembly, who are elected from the people and should work for the people, should simply not allow themselves to do so. Anyone from any political option who tries to burden our citizens and citizens with lobbying laws should be excluded. No matter what environment it's coming from. I think we are slowly approaching this time that people will decide that lobbyists for individuals will no longer have a place in the National Assembly. When the last national elections were held, people made a decision and made it clear who they trusted, but – I have said that many times before – that those who are now sitting in the coalition have stolen elections from people. People have made a different choice. But you have decided that you have a government in your own hands because of your lobbyist interests and that you are burdening the poorest. But believe me, just as the SMC has paid for its bad work and the burden of those poorest in the previous term, and in this, you know how many of you are now in this reference, so this coalition will in some future answer to citizens and citizens, those who are struggling to survive from month to month. Think about this today when you vote on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you very much. In the SDS Group, we tabled this law for two reasons, due to two aspects. The first aspect is the one mentioned by colleague Podkoršek today in the broader part of the debate, and the second part is in this so-called idiotic test, which is a test of sound mind logic in Slovenia, either predominates the technical-intellectual or engineering work or will prevail over the so-called FDV-birocratic lobby and this mentality. As I can see, this mentality is also involved in this mandate. Now we go to logic. For the first time, why tax the term — it must be used correctly, all of you are using it very incorrectly — it is bicycles with an auxiliary engine, not mopeds. Moped is that bike with an auxiliary engine that reaches up to 45 kilometers per hour. And up to 25 kilometers an hour, we've got bikes with an auxiliary engine. So you're the enemies of the bike with the auxiliary engine that have an internal combustion engine for this additional engine, whether it's a 2-stroke or a 4-stroke engine. The 4th Industrial Revolution has brought so-called electrified motorcycles, electric bicycles, for example, which you can buy, which also have a limit of 25 kilometers per hour. I'm asking you why you haven't taxed them yet. I can say that the handling of electric bicycles, which I own myself, allows for the speed of the KTM electric bicycle, say, up to 75, 70, 60 kilometers per hour. I can say that you can be children on the Internet, even you can buy for your bike, a bicycle with an electric fist with an additional ion battery that has power up to 1 kilowatt or even more. Rimac produced an electric bicycle, which has a 7 kilowatt motor and reaches about 100 kilometres per hour. I'm asking you why you haven't taxed it yet, and you've added to it, and you're yelling, "All for safety." A colleague bought a dog a herd to be euthanized in one of the animal protection centers. It's a human gesture. The mole reaches almost 70 kilometers per hour. Why didn't you register this hamster? A colleague has a carriage to drive tourists in Maribor. He's got two retired Lipicas. Despite retirement, this chariot reaches about 50 kilometers an hour, of course, when good will and well - fed. Why don't you, my friend, register, tax and do all the technical checks for this horse? Why haven't you adopted this marriage yet? At the time of the world record, Usain Bolt reached 40 feet [65 m] in a high - speed sprint, reaching a speed of 40 miles [44.27 km] an hour. Why don't you get Usain Bolt to come to Slovenia and get him a license plate right away? I'm a biker myself, average biker in my mid 40s. I always look at the computer on the bike, the average speed is about 25 kilometers per hour. The average speed of a bicycle with an auxiliary engine, as a colleague of Podkoršek said, is 13 to 15 kilometres per hour. I'm asking you whether you'll also register Franz Breznik, the average biker, through technical checks and put a license plate on his back. But I also have colleagues who train better, who are in better physical condition, who have these so-called contestants, and they reach, say, some 80 kilometers per hour. I ask you why these bicycles, which also have a bicycle in the first part of the adjective, are not built through complete certification and are not registered. I'm talking about mal-minor magnificence, I'm talking about people who don't think, I'm talking about history repeating itself. LDS – is the same as labels for technical examinations, typical lobbying law. Then, let's say LDS was years ago, if you remember when you were driving down the highway and you had, when a friend of theirs made one plate that worked on an inductive loop, and you were paying that ABC toll all day. There was another lobbyist law. See, the KPK itself said at one of the meetings that the typical school example of lobbyist law and back even the number of companies operating is an example of your so-called bike registration law with an auxiliary engine. So I'm asking you where the security logic is. And one more thing. Someone who manipulates, I'm sorry, and that's why we have the police. Someone who is abusing who goes 25 km/h – we have a police officer to work for. And if the police couldn't handle it, then we can't change the law and the sanity logic. This is where the sanity logic of this marriage fell. We're going to put it in five more times, and we're going to do five more idiotic tests to find out if there's any more normal sane people in the temple of democracy who should use that logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you, too! The next one has the floor, Mr Robert Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u160	Yes, when I listen to this, I really think common sense has dried up completely. I don't know how we can make a theater and ideological question out of every question in this building. It's about mopeds and road safety. Please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u161	Mr Member, please, if you will calm down and let your colleague finish his thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u162	No, Mr. Breznik, it's motor vehicles that weigh 100 kilograms, whether it's 10 or 15 kilometers per hour or 25 kilometers per hour, and they're very dangerous.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u163	Mr Member, please calm down and let your colleague finish his thought. You're stealing his time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u164	Yeah, that's probably it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u166	The rules in the road area apply to all: pedestrians, skiers, roller skaters and bikers. Go through the village more than 50 km/h. You can also be measured, stopped, and punished by the police. They can give it to you. Then here we promote how to cheat in technical inspections. Catastrophe! Are we legalizing fraud now or what? I mean, great. Only type-approval, technical suitability shall be demonstrated. What do we prove by approval? To operate the brakes, to comply with European guidelines, to have lights, to have a limited speed, to be a proper suspension. In some rural areas, will we change the rules so that they can drive unregistered, non-approved, non-executive vehicles? A vehicle which does not have an approval without a technical inspection shall be technically inoperative and dangerous. It's dangerous for me, for anyone. Skiro, also skiro, must behave on the road in accordance with road traffic rules. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u167	Mr. Breznik, I'm warning you one last time. I ask you not to answer during the debate of the other Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u168	Let us admit that by proposing this law or these changes to the law, you have completely failed because this would not be a step backwards. Let us go back to chaos when everyone can do whatever he wants in this country — or what? What does NLB have on one occasion and I don't know what else to do with mopeds, bikes with auxiliary engines to make you happy? I don't know, I was just waiting for one sentence to get a migrant on a 50-pound moped, stole social assistance, tied the glass ceramic plate to the back and drove 100 km/h to Slovenia and drove in from Venezuela. That is all that was missing and today's debate would be a perfect one. So I'm not going to support this law absolutely. To suggest, or directly to say, that this is a question of what a lobby it is, which is unworthy. Come with the papers and prove something, not just talk. What you're saying is, I'm sorry, but this is total nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u169	Thank you very much! In the context of time-sharing, the panellist and the representative of the Government also have the opportunity to discuss which I have not specifically invited them to apply. Now I'm asking if the government wants a word first. No, no, no. Proposer? Yeah. Here you go. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thanks again for saying that, probably the last time. My predecessor, I think he told everyone who's watching today's session, what our relationship is, and I'm gonna tell you about the bank. You must be bored, but the gentleman is leaving. I repeat, all of us elected to this National Assembly, and I think you will agree with me that that is why we are here to adopt laws that are for the benefit of citizens and citizens, especially those who have elected us. This was in the past, and this is in the present and also in the future. I repeat that we are probably not so popular to be accompanied by citizens and citizens during the day. They have something else to do. But if we are accompanied today, we are accompanied primarily by those who have a problem with this law, which came into force on 1 May 2017. What does this have to do with NLB? We can wave. They don't follow us who have BMWs that have millions. What does it have to do with anything? The same government, we worked together with New Slovenia to prove to them that with this law, which smells from the lobbies in the back, after corruption, they should not accept it. Time from May 1 to today has shown that this law is wrong. That's what we're trying to tell today. We have proved to this same government that those who have taken millions should be given to where they belong. Now I'm saying it again. For a moped or bicycle with an auxiliary engine worth 500 euros, a citizen in the same country needs two witnesses to prove ownership and for the millions they took, they need nothing. This is happening throughout history in the Republic of Slovenia. What my colleague has said before me is a relationship with these 13,000 people who still own these bikes with an engine, that we do not want to listen to them, but we have already acknowledged in the beginning, if it is possible to listen to the government and all of us in the coalition, to make an amendment and to adopt such a law that will benefit all those who have already put these bikes on technical checks and, above all, to those who still have them at home in the garage, that tomorrow a policeman will not have them engulfed with a fine of 400 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u171	Thank you, proposer. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this item of the agenda and the second meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 15.50. (The sitting was suspended at 15.18 and resumed at 15.51)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue the adjourned regular session of the National Assembly. I'll wait another second for the Members to talk to each other in peace. Thank you. Before proceeding to the voting procedure, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 6, 20, 7, 12, 23, 24, 8, 22, 15, 17, 16, 18 and 26 items on the agenda. Before we go to the vote of you, honourable Members and Members, please check the voting devices. Thank you. We continue with the 6th paragraph of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Dear Members, we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, this is the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia Budget for 2017. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 26. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the final bill has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 27 November 2018. At the same time, I inform you that the SDS Group has withdrawn the amendment to Articles 2 and 3 of the bill. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Council of State to Article 2. We vote. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes in favour, 38 votes in favour. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Council of State to Article 3. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 40. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Motor Vehicle Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Motor Vehicle Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. This also concludes this item on the agenda. We move on to the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the 23rd annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. This is the report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment for 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to that report of the Ombudsman. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 1. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, this is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Law, the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Construction Law is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 51, 29 votes against. [[For the vote 51]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the 2019 Work Programme and the Agency's Financial Plan for Energy. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: The National Assembly agrees on the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2019 of 21. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of the procedures for the award of public contracts. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: The National Assembly gives its consent to the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of the procedures for the award of public contracts of 23. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance (CFSP-N), the first consideration. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is appropriate for further consideration. Mag. Matthew Tonin has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u173	Dear Members and Members! Of course, the New Slovenia Group will vote that the law is suitable for further consideration. You know the contents, but I think that's what's important to all of this. In this way, in a coalition, one such or another, you agree that this topic of the absence of the hospital needs to be better regulated in particular for espouses and that it is also necessary to listen to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia regarding the regression requirements. This is all general agreement. What has been bothering me lately is that these parliamentary corridors are increasingly heard by civil society, that the coalition MPs, together with Levica, speak very clearly in this sense, "if you want a problem to be solved and it is accepted, then do not do it with the opposition." This seems to me to be a threat to democracy that you are referring civil society to whatever the opposition is proposing, the coalition will vote against it. And yet another matter appears in all these things when we claim that we do not have a majority government. Of course we do. This is exactly the kind of vote that is repeated, every day shows that we have a very large and broad coalition and that we certainly do not have a minority government and we have absolutely six parties in the coalition. Every day when any opposition law comes in, it shows up. In the long run, this is a dangerous practice, that it is not an important content, but an important candidate. This work of yours is probably for all of our laws that are in the vote today and that will also be in the vote tomorrow, it is very clear that the old policy is going back to this Parliament to the broad door.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I therefore note that the assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the draft law amending the Labour Relations Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Labour Relations Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I therefore note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law is terminated. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is suitable for further consideration. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Mr. Joseph Horvath, on behalf of the delegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the law is suitable for further consideration, which has also been shown in some way by the debates, and therefore the New Slovenia Group will vote positively on this decision, i.e. in favour. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I just want to remind you of one solution that is brought up by the novelty of this law. It's a so-called double status. Double status means pensioner, which is the right, if you pay full-time, full-time contributions, at some point you reach a point when you get a right called a pension. Is it right for citizens and citizens to enjoy the right 100%? Does anyone have the right to cut this pension? He doesn't have one. He doesn't have one. And if someone wants to keep working, in the form of espay, why not let them work? Why is it illegal for us to work? Why are we moving away from the labour market in Slovenia on record, measured within the EU? Record fast. Well, on the other hand, we have a record late entry into the labour market. Who else will fill the pension box if we “screw”, forgive the words at home, the ones who work. We will put pressure on those who work, and glorify those who do not work. It is not true that this solution is just for espouses, which many have written to me because they did not have the opportunity or did not want to read the law, that it is for all citizens and citizens. If anyone, colleagues and colleagues, then Mr Fakin, is now the Minister of Health, who has sat for many years at the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, says that these matters have been “rolling” for 15 years in assemblies and have not “rolled away”. Then who's responsible? We, the National Assembly, have to take solutions that are good for people. No one said explicitly in the debate that it is forbidden to work in this country, but obviously does not support dual status, does not open this option, meaning that it will continue to be prohibited to work. If anyone is healthy, thank God that our life span is longer, thanks to medicine, a healthy lifestyle, and so on, why not keep working? Even in the third period of his life, as it is said, and why not get 100 percent of his pension if that's his right? Therefore, our arguments here are very clear and they are sitting and standing, standing, so we support this law and we are still ready to improve these solutions in the second reading, if they are not optimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador! Explanation of own voice. Mr. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u177	Of course I will vote in favour of this law. It brings another important solution that may not have been mentioned in my predecessor, namely, the correction of the injustices to voluntary pension payers. In its previous mandate, this injustice, which was committed in 2012, was corrected by all those voluntary contributors who paid for it, who started these things until 31 December 2012. We have corrected this injustice in the past. With this marriage - based solution, injustice would now be brought to an end for those who voluntarily paid even after that date. It's about specific human stories. Most likely these people don't just write to us, they also write to you in different e-mails and things like that. By upholding this law today, we would be able to help these people to resolve this problem in order to put an end to these hardships. But not because there's a habit here that since it came from the opposition, you object. And it is right that people know that the procedure allows that if we support the marriage at first reading today, you can remove from it all those things that disturb you — from the double status, from the regression claim, from other things. In the second reading, you can quietly eliminate all of this, but only support this part that eliminates injustices to all willing payers. This you have the opportunity to do, but people will see whether you are actually working for people or still important, or whether the proposal to solve some problem comes from the opposition or from the coalition, or is there really something on what you promised before the elections, that you will be some practical, new policy that will listen to people and solve problems in a practical way or everything goes the same way as before.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will now vote. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] The proposed decision is not adopted and the legislative procedure is therefore terminated. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, this is the Redecision on the Real Estate Intermediation Act. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 10. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. POINT — MANAGEMENT AND VOLUNTARY MATTERS. First of all it is the proposal for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On 12 November 2018, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that Dr Katja Sugman Stubbs be elected as a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to Mrs Nataša Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for further explanation of the proposal. Madam Secretary-General, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u179	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! At the public invitation of the President of the Republic, which is governed by the Constitutional Court Act, three proposals for candidates for a judge or a judge of the Constitutional Court arrived at the Office of the President of the Republic: Mag. Boštjan Pintar, Mr Sasha Sever and the extraordinary Professor Dr. Andraž Terška. Shortly after the call was concluded, Mr Saša Sever and later Prof. Dr. Andraz Teršek withdrew from the candidacy. In consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic received two additional proposals for the post of Constitutional Judge or Judge. First the candidacy of Professor Vera Trstenjak and then the candidacy of Professor Katje Sugman Stubbs. The President of the Republic has concluded that both candidates meet the criteria and are fit to perform this function. The President of the Republic may also elect candidates for the Constitutional Court outside the call, so after discussions and further consultations with the parliamentary groups, he decided to propose to the National Assembly, as a candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, a regular professor, Katjo Sugman Stubbs, a university-graduate psychologist, a university-graduate lawyer, a doctor of legal science. Let me present just a few highlights from her extensive teaching, research, teaching and international activities. Dr. Sugmanova is a regular professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, where she also graduated and PhD. The need for a wider understanding of human relations and the functioning of society led her to a parallel study of psychology at the Ljubljana Faculty of Philosophy and later to the completion of psychotherapy education. In addition to regular lectures she works as a researcher at the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law, she also teaches at the Faculty of Education and at a doctoral study. She taught at many international and national conferences, colloquial and professional meetings. Its broad knowledge has enabled it to introduce a new, extremely successful way of education for judges in the field of education. Its bibliography in several world languages includes 39 original scientific articles, 13 scientific and professional monographs in authorship and co-authorship, 28 chapters in scientific monographs. Many of these have been published abroad in established international publications. For many years she taught and studied abroad as a visiting professor, a researcher, an evaluator at many, including prestigious world universities. For example, at the University of Cambridge, the University of Poitiers, France, the Faculty of Law of the University of Luxembourg, the University of Amsterdam. At the Faculty of Law in Luxembourg, she was crippled by the title “professeur associie”. She is a recipient of Fulbright's scholarship to the University of Berkeley. She is still an active member of the European Association of Academics for Criminal Law of the European Union as a Slovenian contact point. She works in many domestic and foreign professional associations, receiving several international scholarships. She was also a member of the Commonwealth Council. The red thread of its scientific and research work is the continuous examination of human rights in criminal proceedings, the establishment of the rights of the powerless and the deprived, the struggle for the rights of the accused and the warning of violations in practice. She is the author and co-author of several reports on the state of protection of the rights of defendants in criminal proceedings. She was involved in writing Slovenian criminal procedural legislation. The Council of Europe was represented by the Slovenian representative of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman Treatment or Punishment. She and her colleague co-authored Slovenia's second report on the Organization of the United Nations on the implementation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. She participates in the work of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights and has produced a number of analyses of human rights documents in criminal proceedings for the purposes of the European Commission. Prof. Dr. Šugman Stubbs also publicly presented her work and her views and values. In doing so, she also answered clearly some of the open questions and dilemmas that arose in public at the time of her candidacy. By her work so far, she has clearly demonstrated a high level of commitment to the rule of law, the protection of human rights and the ability to solve complex legal problems. Various experiences also give her a different insight into human nature, which goes beyond knowledge of legal standards. The President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly that Dr Katjo Sugman Stubbs elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you, Madam Secretary-General. As a competent working body, the proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission and I hereby give the floor to its President, Mr Ivan Hršk. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The term-of-law committee shall be held at the fourth session of 15. 11. 2018 as a parent working body, the proposal for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which was addressed to the National Assembly 12. 11. 2018 submitted by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the first paragraph of Article 163 provides that the Constitutional Court shall consist of nine judges elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic in the manner laid down by law and in the second paragraph of that Article to elect judges from legal experts. The Constitutional Court Act in Article 9 provides that a national of the Republic of Slovenia who is a legal expert and is at least 40 years of age may be elected as a judge or judge of the Constitutional Court. It follows from the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia that the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia has received within three proposals from candidates, two of whom have resigned from the candidacy. The President of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to propose to the National Assembly a candidate who has not applied for the invitation to tender, namely to propose that the National Court of Justice of the Constitutional Court, instead of a judge whose term of office is 18 years. 12. 2018, here is Dr Katjo Sugman Stubbs. The proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 13 of the Constitutional Court Act, is in writing and accompanied by the written consent of the candidate. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of a Judge of the Constitutional Court, the Assembly shall elect by secret ballot a majority of the votes of all Members. The Constitutional Court Act in Article 17 specifically regulates the performance of the function by binding the beginning of the exercise of the mandate on the fulfilment of the following conditions: the oath before the national assembly, the termination of the incompatible activity and the expiry of the term of office of the judge instead of which the candidate is proposed for election. Ms Nataša Kovač, Secretary-General at the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, took part in the meeting of the Commission, which further explained the proposal. She presented the professional criteria that the President of the Republic of Slovenia had taken into account in the decision and pointed out that, in view of the consultations held with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, it could be reasonably concluded that the candidate had the necessary support for the appointment. In the debate, members of a commission of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group raised doubts as to the suitability of the candidate with regard to her response to the decision of the Court of First Instance in the Patria case, as this was intended to define the candidate as a violation of human rights. They also questioned the appropriateness of the decision of the President of the Republic as the President had, in their view, a more professional, internationally established candidate with experience and a trial, so they would not support the proposed candidate. A member of the Commission from the members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - pointed out that it was an exceptional scientist and professor, who would lose the Law Faculty in Ljubljana by electing a constitutional judge and highlighting the lack of experience of the candidate in writing judgements. Members of the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, Social Democrats, Left, Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Alenka Bratušek stressed that the proposed candidate is a top legal expert with outstanding careers and achievements and that she will be supported at the meeting. Following the discussion, the Commission decided to propose that Dr Katja Sugman Stubbs be elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia instead of a judge whose term of office expires on 18 December 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u182	Thank you, Your Honor. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, on behalf of the SDS Group. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u183	Your Honor! Dr Katja Sugman Stubbs will not receive the votes of the Slovenian Democratic Party as Judge of the Constitutional Court. We critically assess the President of the State, who, in such an important decision as proposing a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court, acted opportunistically. We believe that the President of the State is obviously still operating beyond moral and state authority and simply does not know or can't, outside the narrow political interests of a specific political group, take such a decision based on a broad consensus, especially when it comes to the issue of human rights and the protection of the highest legal act in the country, that is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of all the known facts and behaviours about candidates, Dr. Verica Trstenjak, former lawyer at the EU court and former judge at the EU General Court, who participated in the negotiations of Slovenia for EU membership, and the internationally established lecturer in law, Dr. Katja Sugman Stubbs, lecturer at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, suggested that the latter should be given reason to raise confidence in the performance of this important function. What has aroused this confidence in the candidate with the President of the country will remain unclear. Surely, however, it is a first-class ideological decision, which is highly biased and certainly does not inspire confidence in an independent and fair judiciary in the vast majority of citizens. Apparently, the president of the country kneeled before a deep country. The words of the influential SMC member Jazna Murgel, who, in her previous term of office, replaced the court seat for the parliamentary bench, today one of the candidates for the Ombudsman, in her dissatisfaction with the Constitutional Court's decision, stated: “Working on, one year goes by quickly, changing the constitutional judges.” This is what Katja Sugeman Stubbs is all about. Sugman Stubbs, a friend of Mira Cerar’s, is one of the few who publicly defended the First Instance judgment in the Patrio case, which proved to be an exclusive case of violation of human rights and the Constitution. Moreover, Shugman Stubbs was also described as a co-author of this bizarre judgment. On its public record of the First Instance judgment in the Patria case, an internationally established constitutional expert wrote that Katja Sugman Stubbs was involved in a serious ignorance of constitutional law, pointing out the problem of the qualitative bottom of the so-called legal profession in the country. So much for her fight for the innocent. Prof. Boštjan M. Zupančič, former judge of the Constitutional Court, a longtime judge at the European Court of Human Rights concerning Katja Sugman Stubbs, whose work he knows well, was also her professor and mentor, criticises that she is an aggressive opportunist. He said she had no idea what an autonomous legal opinion was, including the question of common honesty. This is death for the judge, added by Boštjan M. Zupančič. Katja Sugman Stubbs, in an attempt to enforce the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, aimed at decommissioning and grading the family and ended up in a referendum, taking the stand for the advocates of the law and turning away from the will of the people. Colleagues and colleagues! It's not right, and it doesn't have to be. Your voice against such appointments can stop. Today, we will not only decide on the name and surname, but, above all, whether the people who have taken the stand for violations of human rights and the Constitution are fit to sit on the position of the Ombudsman. Today you will show by your vote which side you are representing the people. Will you be able to defend yourself in the rule of law and democratic standards, or will you succumb to pressure and allow the pervasive judiciary of Bavcon's law school to continue to prevail? There is a lot of mistrust in the justice system in Slovenia. Let's help him improve. Let us help those who do good in it and want to do good.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u184	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Ms Tina Heferle will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. President. Values such as constitutional democracy and the rule of law are extremely important for every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, since without these two values each of us would be very difficult to exercise his rights or, in other words, the constitutional protection of justice and freedoms is a compulsory component of every democratic republic. The State authority, which is the foundation of constitutional democracy and the rule of law and which carries out a constitutional assessment, is, of course, the Constitutional Court. At the same time, the Ombudsman is also the Ombudsman for Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Ombudsman for Constitutionality and Legality, and his authority is of paramount importance. In the LMŠ Group, we estimate that in the Constitutional Judge or Constitutional Judge, who is actually the builder of the authority of the Constitutional Court, expertise and apoliticality are crucial, without which professional knowledge does not even occur. The Constitutional Judges and the Constitutional Court must, by their work, defend such standards that the application of the law rises above what is right and, above all, pursue what is right and right. This latter should be the commitment of anyone who applies the law at any time. With the outstanding academic and other career achievements of the candidate for the Constitutional Judge, Professor Katja Sugman Stubbs, I believe that we are all already familiar with this, so I do not want to put any of her achievements specifically on the line that she would not be wronged by any of them. However, I would like to mention the fact that the candidate for a constitutional judge, in addition to her exceptional expertise, is exceptional in the qualities I mentioned at the outset. This is, in our view, one of the main features and advantages of the candidate group, that it is not burdened by any political past. All my advertising so far, if I may say so, on important, resilient and pressing cases or other legal issues, has been carried out at the professional, academic level and in the course of professional discussions, which, last but not least, is expected from the professor of criminal law. It is precisely this apoliticality that gives the candidate the advantage and the opportunity for her work to be truly able to be carried out solely and only in liability to the profession and law. In the LMŠ Group, we are also a little proud of today's candidate, as another step towards new practice, where there is no room for division into ours and yours, but only knowledge counts, is the expertise. I believe today's election will also confirm this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u186	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u187	Mr President, honourable Mrs Natasha Kovac, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect Dr Katja Sugman Stubbs as a Constitutional Judge. The name Dr. Katje Šugman Stubbs is highly recognized and appreciated in the field of law in both Slovenian and international legal space. The cause of the latter, appreciation and visibility is not to be sought in the desire of the candidate for public exposure, but in her long-term work, commitment and intent after the continued dissemination of legal science in the domestic and international space. This commitment has been demonstrated through an impressive collection of bibliography of the candidate, which has given its extensive knowledge and experience to generations of young lawyers and lawyers since 1992, both in the field of criminal law, criminal procedural law, criminology and criminal law of the European Union. Dr. Shugman Stubbs also regularly hosts numerous foreign universities and conferences in Slovenia and abroad. Her professional work is largely marked by the field of human rights. Among other things, she co-authored the 2nd report of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and was also a Slovenian member of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment of the Council of Europe. Rich experience and extensive legal knowledge, and through this special attention focused on human rights, strengthen us in the conviction that Dr. Katja Sugman Stubbs is an excellent candidate for a constitutional judge. We are also pleased that, according to forecasts of support from the political party's candidate, the majority of them have recognized its expertise and the rich experience in the field of legal science. We have often witnessed gallant debates over the appointment and voting of Constitutional Judges and Judges. Unfortunately, many of these debates have been set in the direction of an ideological political field. At that time, it should be recalled that the Constitutional Court is an independent and autonomous State body, the first guardian of constitutionality and legality, and of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, let our first lead in voting and in deciding on the role of a Constitutional Judge or Judge be professional. This is what we identified with Dr. Katji Sugman Stubbs to the greatest extent. The Group of Social Democrats will unanimously support her as a candidate for a constitutional judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word is given by Igor Zorčič, Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u189	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! In the last two years, the Constitutional Court has marked the replacement of six judges. In 2017, the term of office of Constitutional Judges expired to four judges, the year before two. The two-thirds exchange of constitutional judges also had an impact on the works of the Constitutional Court. His President, whose mandate is to expire in a bad month and instead of being proposed by the President of the Republic by Dr Katjo Sugman Stubbs, wrote that such a large-scale change has slowed down the work of the Constitutional Court somewhat. On the other hand, we are convinced that any new election to the Constitutional Court will always introduce a new impetus, fresh eyesight and additional creative power. Following today's proposal to elect us next year, there will be another election, as will be the last in the series in 2020. We approach the modern centre's parliamentary joint parties on the new judges of the Constitutional Court with a great deal of prudence. We are aware of the important role of the Constitutional Court both in the political system and in society in general. The latter insists that, with this important role, which we have as the holder of the electoral function, we make the choice of new judges with what we can strongly assess expertise and ultimately with broad support. It seems particularly important to us that the candidate or candidate has a constitutional judge, a constitutional judge, a broad perspective and a sense of social events. The proposal by the President of the Republic to elect Dr. Katja Sugman Stubbs as Judge of the Constitutional Court will be supported. Looking at the candidate's CV, it seems almost impossible to reconcile her achievements into a few sentences. Doctor of legal science and at the same time a graduate psychologist, a regular professor of criminal law and an extraordinary professor of criminology with considerable experience from universities abroad, lecturers and researchers, a recipient of scholarships awarded by foreign countries, a member of several editorial boards of magazines, domestic and foreign, with extensive opus of research work. When a person passes through her résumé, it seems that in fact her life is marked from the beginning by the field of human rights. She has been a Ph.D. for the protection of human rights in the criminal field, she has devoted her research career to the study of human rights, she has been elected representative of Slovenia on the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment of the Council of Europe. She was a senior researcher of the authorised Slovenian human rights rapporteur for the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights, a consultant for various ministries in the field of human rights protection and EU criminal law. You could still list it. Its direction, criminal law, criminology is particularly sensitive to the protection of the most fundamental human rights, such as individual freedom. Slovenian lawyer and philosopher Leonid Pitamic once said: We will not create it, we will not share it, and we will not find justice if there is no justice in us. We believe that Dr Katja Sugman Stubbs, with justice that stems from her work so far, from experience and expertise, is more than a suitable candidate for election as a judge of the Constitutional Court. As has been said in the beginning, we will support it in the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Levica Group of Members. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much. The appointment of Constitutional Judges is certainly one of the more important powers of the National Assembly. Nevertheless, in the past, it has been subject mainly to political bargaining and also to the conclusion of rotten compromises. The appointment of Constitutional Judges is an even more important issue at a time when the tendency to restrict or even violate human rights is growing. At a time when a number of disputed solutions are taken under the cover of excessive exposure to the changed security situation. At a time when, under the requirements of the right hand, the central governments are also debasing the standards of permissible interference with human rights, and at a time when the right to privacy, the prohibition of discrimination and human dignity are no longer entirely self-evident. The unbridled capitalism and the short-sighted solutions it brings, the capital they put before people, in private, and the repression against freedom, have become a constant. If we look only over the last five years, we can see a cutting wire at the border. The soldiers gained police powers at that time. Police officers have been given paralysers, mass controls and the possibility of using military equipment. While nearly 280,000 people live close to or below the poverty risk threshold, rising social transfers and even the lowest wages are all sooner than self-evident. And despite high and stable economic growth, austerity measures are being extended. Because of a few hundred Euros of debt, people have even lost their roof over their heads. All of this just points to the direction we're moving. The direction at which there is no room for social justice, for quality and accessible public health and public education, to respect consistently the prohibition of discrimination and ensure equal opportunities for all. In view of all the above, the Constitutional Court is particularly important. It is the highest authority of the judiciary, an institution that is, in fact, the last defender of constitutional rights and freedoms, which, as it is said, are increasingly being beaten. We are talking about an institution whose main weapons are in fact authority, and the authority can only be ensured to the Court by electing the best and highest legal experts, the appropriateness of which is based on past work, autonomy and principles, and not on political pedigree. This is also why we did not support another candidate in Levica. The selection of the candidate proposed by the right-hand side of this Chamber was based more than on expertise and appropriateness based on client discipline, as we have also seen at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The expertise of candidates on the right side of the Chamber is mostly reduced to the definition of the protection of the rights of one person and of one affair related to that person. We're talking about the Prince of Darkness and the Finnish armored men. But anyway, there's a candidate in front of us today, and we'll be supporting her in Levica. Dr. Katja Sugman Stubbs is a top legal expert who has a sense of human distress and the need to protect the most vulnerable in addition to exceptional professional skills. It also has the necessary authority and determination that is increasingly countering human rights violations and violations in times when you are faced with current challenges. We are also pleased that this is a candidate, because ensuring that women are adequately represented in the highest positions is an important and all too often the neglected issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u192	Thank you for your position. Allow a general request, let us be respectful to the Members and Members, and also to others. Procedural? What if I ask? At my request, will you have a procedural one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u193	President, look. There are views of the parliamentary groups, we know that they are very far-reaching in their implementation, but we have had the position of one parliamentary group, which has very gravely discredited only the candidate for a constitutional judge, and you have not said a word. I don't think this comment was fair right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u194	Absolutely. You have correctly found that I have not addressed you, but I have addressed the Members and Members, so there is no need for anyone to be recognized. This brings us to Mrs Maša Kociper, the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u195	Dear Members and Members! Indeed, the Constitutional Court is one of the most important institutions in our country, which resolves not only the most challenging legal issues, but the issues related to the functioning of the whole society – social issues. It directs them and directs our country's path to the future. It is an extremely important institution and we must be particularly careful in this choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. In Alenka Bratušek, at the beginning of this process of choosing the Constitutional Judge, we would like to see again someone who would have had a trial experience in court cases at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, we did not find such a candidate or he was not among those who applied, but we were so much more pleased with the name Katja Sugman Stubbs, a top expert who, in our opinion, will be an excellent and supreme constitutional judge. According to all her references, which have already been mentioned in the previous positions of the parliamentary groups, I might not repeat myself, but would only say that it is an exceptional candidate who has an impressive biography, which has a very diversified teaching work, teaching work not only in Slovenia but also abroad. In Slovenia, all the time is one of the best-rated professors at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, and its work in other areas is impressive, especially in the field of human rights protection. Its work marks the promotion of human rights, such as the establishment of the rights of the powerless and deprived, the fight for the rights of the accused, the analysis of the lack of legislation and the warning of violations of human rights in practice. With these experiences, it will be an excellent and very useful improvement for the Constitutional Court in its current composition. If I leave all the rest of what we wrote in our group at this presentation, I would like to say just the following. Over and over again, our Group will draw attention to the leadership crisis, as we call it in our country, when the best candidates will gradually no longer want to apply for the most important functions, precisely because of the discredits that we have received from the SDS party today. It is a great shame that we are causing such damage to our country and that the best candidates to avoid such acts will no longer want to report. Ms Katjo Sugman Stubbs will be very much supported by all Members in the Alenka Bratušek Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u196	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Franz Jurša, you have the last word on behalf of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. It's a great honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u197	Thank you so much, President for such a nice talk, Traveler. Nice greetings to Mrs. Natasha, as well as to all who are in the hall. Today we have a vote on the proposal for a constitutional judge to replace Jadranka Sovdat, whose term of office expires on 18 December. The candidate, who will also receive the support of our parliamentary group, and I hope that a sufficient number of votes from other Members and Members will also be the versatile Dr Katja Sugman Stubbs. Why did I label it as all-round? Her professional size and exceptional activity are already evident from her education, as she is also a lawyer and a psychologist. Her excellent career journey is also witnessed by extensive bibliography, and her works are also published in international publications. She taught and studied at several foreign universities, in judicial schools, she was a member of the State Prosecutor's Council and could still be listed. What we particularly like about her is her involvement in the field of human rights. Among other things, she participated in the European Commission's call for human rights in criminal law and was also elected Slovenian representative to the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment in the Council of Europe. In the Desus Group, we agree with the assessment by the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor that Mrs Sugman meets the professional criteria and raises high confidence in the performance of such an important function and therefore has the voice of the Member and Members of our Group. I would like to point out in the end that the candidate needs 46 votes to be elected, and this was also important when deciding on the proposal. And there's one more thing. We have not received any other candidate to be considered, which could also be evaluated. This candidate, mentioned in one of the parliamentary groups, also has her own qualities, and I think when she comes to the hearing of the National Assembly, she will also be able to gain our trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Only Mrs Natasa Kovac, Secretary-General, was reported for the debate. Do you want to use the login? No, no, no. Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, it shall decide on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the Members of the Commission leading this vote, namely: Mr Franz Breznik, Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group; Mrs Karla Urh, Parliamentary Group List of Marjana Sarca; Mrs Janja Slug, Group of the Party of the Modern Centre; Mr Blaž Pavlin, Group of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word “for” or the word “against”. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the proposed candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote for her, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5 p.m. and will continue until 17.15 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. Dear Members! I interrupt this agenda item and the second meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.53 and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we continue our adjourned regular session. We continue with the 26th paragraph, with the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Minutes on the determination of the outcome of the vote for the election of Dr. Katja Sugman Stubbs as a member of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 27 November 2018. 81 ballots were distributed. 81 votes were delivered, no votes were invalid and 81 votes were valid. Fifty Members and Members voted against 31 Members and Members of Parliament. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Katja Sugman Stubbs was elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the majority vote of all Members to the seat of Judge, whose term of office expires on 18 December 2018. I ask the elected judge to join us. I ask Dr. Katja Sugman Stubbs, elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly. Here you go, Madam Constitutional Judge.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u200	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and work with all my strength to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u201	Honorable Constitutional Judge, would you like to address the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u202	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Thank you all and each of you for your voice. In this place, I would also like to thank all those who have supported me at this time. This support really meant a lot to me. I would like to thank my family, many friends and colleagues and really many acquaintances and strangers. So thank you very much, because at a time like this, a person needs support. In front of each important lifeline, a reflective person faces many doubts and questions. The turning point that I have come through today is such a nature that it only concerns me to a lesser extent, and in a much more important part, others whose fates I will co-decide. I am aware of the responsibilities ahead of me, and I take a new role first with gratitude to my teachers, then with respect for those who did this work before me, and with their heads open to learning and listening. In doing so, I will be guided by our supreme document – the constitution that comes from the valuable starting points that are the foundation of every respectable and humane co-existence. It is time to remember once again that Slovenia is a legal and social state and that the whole document is based on the idea of the dignity of every human being, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material state, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal circumstance. It's up to us judges to give these words content. Allow me to conclude with the words of the American poet Maya Angelou: “Words are much more than what is written on paper. They need a human voice to fill them with deeper meaning." Thank you for recognizing in me the professional and personal qualities to give these words a human voice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u203	Honorable Constitutional Judge, accept your sincere congratulations, and I wish you well in your work.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u204	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The government proposes to the National Assembly to appoint a mag. Gorada Chibea as Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency for the period of six years, from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2024 at the latest, with the possibility of reappointment. For further explanation, please the representative of the Government, State Secretary Method Dragonjo,
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u206	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Insurance Supervisory Agency was established by the Insurance Act and became operational in 2000. The objectives of this State Supervisory Authority in the field of insurance are to reduce and remedy insurance irregularities, to protect the interests of insurers and to enable the operation of the insurance sector and its positive impact on the entire economy. The Agency for Insurance Supervisory shall be responsible for its work to the National Assembly, which shall also appoint and dismiss the Director of the Agency and the members of its expert board. Appointments shall be made in accordance with the applicable legislation on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposing to the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency on the basis of a public tender. A special public tender for the position of the Director of the Agency was published on the website of the Ministry of Public Administration on 16 March this year. On 30 April, the Special Competition Commission for the implementation of this public tender informed the Ministry of Finance of the conclusion of the selection procedure and of the communication of the names of the three eligible candidates. On the basis of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided at its meeting on 25 October this year to propose to the National Assembly that it appoint Mag. The Mount of Chibei, which fulfils all the conditions laid down and for which it is assessed, on the basis of the standards of professional competence and suitability of the candidate and of its previous work experience and personal integrity, that the Agency will be able to carry out its work successfully and successfully in accordance with the provisions of the Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u207	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. As a competent working body, the proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing and also submitted a proposal for a decision. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing mag as Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency for a period of 6 years. Gorazd Chibej, which will take place on 1 January 2019. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund to finance the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. He wants to speak to the president? Mr. Ivan Hršak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant provides in the second paragraph of Article 7 that the work of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste shall be supervised by the Supervisory Board, which shall have a chairman and nine members appointed and dissolved by the National Assembly. Mr Brglez, who was appointed as a member of the Fund's Supervisory Committee on 30 January 2015 by a decision appointing the President and nine members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the Disposal of Radioactive Waste, made a withdrawal declaration on 8 October 2018 and was dissolved by the National Assembly on 25 October 2018. Therefore, on the basis of a decision taken at the 3rd meeting of 25 October 2018 on the discharge of Paul Brglez from the seat of the Supervisory Board of the Fund, the Commission invited the members of the National Assembly to forward to it proposals for a member or member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund to be appointed or appointed for the remainder of the mandate of the Supervisory Board of the Fund. Within a period of time, she received a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and a proposal from the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. At its 4th session, on 15 October 2018, the Mandate-Electorial Commission, out of the proposals of the two candidates by vote, appointed Dr. Yuri Curk as candidate and included him in the text of the proposal for a decision and forwarded the proposal to the National Assembly to decide on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-27-SDZ8-Redna-02.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There are no applications for discussion, and we are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to fund the financing of the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant for the remainder of the term of office as a member is called Dr. Jurij Curk. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 21. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This brings honourable Members and Members to the final decision-making issue, to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal was submitted to the Parliament by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to dismiss a member of Branet Golubovic in the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services and to elect a member of Jerca Korča. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be taken if it is voted on by the majority of all members of the assembly. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. By this, honourable Members, I conclude this item on the agenda. I'm adjourning the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice evening!
