ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 6th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Branislav Rajić, Zvonko Černač from 2 p.m. on and Franc Kramar. They were invited to the meeting: the candidate for Ambassador Karl Urh and the representative of the State Election Commission on agenda item 1b and the President of the Government. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday, 22 August 2018, with the reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to a briefing on our resignation from the presidency of the National Assembly. Chairman of the National Assembly of Mags. Today, 23 August 2018, Matthew Tonin submitted a written statement of resignation from the presidency of the National Assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly will explain his resignation. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! The time has come for my reputation. The Coalition of Six Parties has decided to appoint Mag as President of the National Assembly. Diana jeedan, and that's why I'm leaving this town. On this occasion, I would like to thank you for your outstanding support, not a few 80 votes. That is why my sincere thanks goes to the SDS, LMŠ, SD, Modern Centre parties, Alenka Bratušek, Desusa, Slovenian National Parties, both representatives of minorities and, of course, my domestic New Slovenia. I sincerely thank you all for giving me this opportunity to serve as President of the National Assembly. It's been a pleasure and a great honor, some people have laughed at it, that I've done things with pleasure, but believe me, if you do something with pleasure, then you usually do it well. So for the past two months, you will forever be impressed by my memory as something incredible and even unforgettable. In these two months, although some have also mocked that I have done nothing, the leaders of the parliamentary groups know exactly that we have had regular weekly working consultations on which we have coordinated a number of acts, regulations and other things. In recent times, there has been controversy about these things, and I think, in many moments, it is also guilty of me and of actually harmonised acts, because incorrect information is presented. At that time, the house order has been amended, which now specifies exactly what the rules of procedure are in the case of house investigations. At that time, the Rules on the International Activities of the National Assembly were also amended, which eliminates all nonsense, which, for example, prevented our committees of the National Assembly from having joint meetings with other committees of our neighbouring countries, including our committee from going to Novo Gorica for example, but should not have gone to Gorica. With regard to parliamentary salaries, which have recently had a number of controversy, the pay framework is set up by law and is set to include the salaries of Members of the 55th to 62nd wage class. In this respect, a new system has been set up to start the basic parliamentary salary in the 55th pay grade, the highest for vice-presidents and leaders of parliamentary groups with more than 20 members in the 62nd pay grade. It is not true that all Members will get paid, we have done things in terms of how individual Members are burdened, some will rise, and others will fall. We have also gone to change the calculation of travel costs, I have proposed that our presence here be recorded and that we receive travel expenses actually reimbursed only on the day we are present here. We have also changed the rules on parliamentary housing, but it must be acknowledged that the Member who is at home in Ljubljana and the Member who is at home in Prekmurje do not have the same working conditions and that these things simply need to be taken into account. All these coordinated acts and proposals will be submitted to my successor today in the pre-received minutes, but I should like to point out now that all these acts have been coordinated at work, with which all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Left, have agreed. And another very important information, since the 2018 budget has already been adopted, all these matters have to be done within the current financial framework and I would therefore ask those who speak other information to simply tell you the truth honestly. Once again, thanks to all the leaders of the parliamentary groups for their truly proper cooperation, my special thanks go also to all the services of the National Assembly, which I really thank them for having accepted me for their part, helped me in my work, and if anything, then I can truly see that the services of the National Assembly are professional and working. I'm sure they'll help my successor, too. If I have hurt anyone at this time, I sincerely apologize, but all the time I have fought for the freedom and progress of our country. Happy coalition and happy Slovenia! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u3	To the president of the Magi. I thank Matthew Tonin for his explanation. In accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The National Assembly notes that it is a mag. On 23 August 2018, Matthew Tonin submitted a written statement of resignation from the office of President of the National Assembly and therefore ceased to serve as President of the National Assembly. That's what you're doing. I thank Matthew Tonin for the proper work done by the first of the same in the National Assembly, and I wish him the best in his further parliamentary work. As the President of the National Assembly has ceased his office, I shall replace him, in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the election of the new President. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the exercise of the function of a Member instead of a Member acting as Prime Minister of the Government. Since Member Marjan Sarec, at the time of his office as Prime Minister of the Government, is unable to act as a Member of the Parliament, the State Election Commission has forwarded to the Assembly a decision finding that the right to replace Mr Marjan Šarc at the time of his office as President of the Government, Karli Urh. The decision of the State Election Commission was addressed by the Commission on Elections, which also provided written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. Would you like a word, Commissioner? No, no, no. Would you like a word, a representative of the parliamentary groups? Not at all. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, I am handing the word to Members and Members. Anybody want a word? Not at all. Given that there are no pre-announced debaters to the whole point of 1st paragraph, Members and Members shall report to each sub-point, with only one discussion to be held. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following motion for a decision: At a time when Member Marjan Sarec, acting as Prime Minister of the Government, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member, he shall perform this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members of 23 August 2018, Karl Urh, born 7. 6. 1961, resident of Upper Page 31a, Kamnik. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite my fellow Member, Carlo Urh, to join us and take over her post, and I wish my colleague to be a successful member of the Parliament. We are moving to the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. On 22 August 2018, the Group of 25 Members and the first-signed Mr Anja Bah Žibert proposed to the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 199, paragraph 1, and in conjunction with Article 20, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that Jožet Tank be elected Vice-President of the National Assembly. Would you like a word to complement the explanation, representative of the proposaler Daniel Krivec? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in conjunction with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of our colleague Jožet Tank. We propose him as Vice-President of the National Assembly as a long-standing Member and an experienced politician. From 1995 to 2002, the mayor of Ribnica was elected to the National Assembly for the first time in 2000 and then in all mandates until today. For 13 years, from April 2005 to June 2018, he also led our parliamentary group and performed this challenging function very well. He was also a member of several working bodies of the National Assembly, including the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, and currently presides over the Committee on Elections of the State. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that Mr Jože Tanko, with his rich parliamentary experience, in particular with the excellent knowledge of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is able to carry out this function as Vice-President of the National Assembly in a conscientious and responsible manner, which, of course, we expect from all the other Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. We believe that Mr Jože Tanko is a great added value for the continuation of the leadership of the National Assembly and will also be very helpful to the so-called new faces who will sit in this responsible place, and, above all, he has demonstrated by his work so far that he is always honest and responsible to all those who participate in the parliamentary process and that he does not favour anyone. I believe he'll also get a lot of support.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u5	Would you like a word, representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u6	Dear Vice President! I, too, thank Matthew for his fine work. Mr Jože, I am pleased that the SDS Group has decided differently in this mandate than in the previous term and has proposed a candidate for the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. I see this move and hope that it is a constructive step for the entire work of the National Assembly, and at the same time I think it is right that both the representatives of the coalition and the opposition are in the leadership of the National Assembly. This balance, I hope, will have an important positive impact on the work of the leadership of the National Assembly in the way that despite the various political options the President and both Vice-Presidents will help each other and also set up a mirror, all in the light of the good and the rules of procedure of the founding part of the National Assembly. Maybe a few more personal thoughts. As far as I am concerned about the rules of procedure and, in general, on the basis of many years of experience, I am pleased that the SDS Group as Vice-President has just proposed Jožet Tanka. I see Jože without a doubt as one of the best acquaintances of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. His interpretation of the latter has been followed by long sessions, sometimes in the nose, but we cannot give him an unargumented debate. Both of us, as long-standing leaders of the parliamentary groups, have often bumped into each other's interests, and you've always known to tell each other your own, but at the same time, I believe you have maintained dignity and respect. I know Jozeta Tanka as a conscientious and responsible Member, although our positions were often on opposite shores, he always preferred arguments to politics. I am pleased and believe that the Vice-President will today take over one of the most experienced Members of this call, which I believe will contribute with his experience and knowledge to the good work of the National Assembly. The Group of Social Democrats will support Jožeta Tank as Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u7	Would any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word? Yeah. Mr. Hršak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u8	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are pleased that, even before the new government was confirmed by the SDS Group, they acknowledged that they were part of the opposition and that they had proposed to this place to be their most experienced Member, Comrade Jozet Tank. This means that, unlike the previous mandate, the SDS Group, when they did not want to take office, recognises the legitimacy of the future government. We believe that colleague Jože Tanko, with his long-standing parliamentary experience and correctness, is more than a good decision, so we will unitedly support him in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u9	Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u10	I am pleased that the coalition side has supported Mr Tank – not because they recognize his indisputable knowledge, knowledge of the procedure and extremely clever management of those working bodies where he is, but probably because you need to make the tough situation of the coalition side a little easier towards the opposition side. Nevertheless, I would like to commend Mr Tank's choice of second vice-president. I think that this is a good choice, that then the leadership of the National Assembly will be balanced and that we will take some step forward. So far, the National Assembly has taken many steps back, and more steps have been taken by the government so far. I think I'd just say she ran in reverse. I hope this doesn't happen again. And I would like to congratulate Mr Tank in advance for his election.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u11	Perhaps one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the State Assembly. The leaders of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded proposals for the members of the committee leading the vote, namely: Franc Breznik Parliamentary Group SDS, Andreja Zabret Parliamentary Group LMŠ, Janja Sluga Parliamentary Group SMC and Blaž Pavlin Parliamentary Group NSI. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. I propose that the Commission also conducts the election of the President of the National Assembly under agenda item 1. Does anyone object to this proposal and to the proposal for a commission? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members, 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 13:00 and 15 minutes and will last until 13:00 and 30 minutes. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the assembly meeting, which will continue at 1:00 and 45 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 13.08 and resumed at 13.45.) We are moving on to the consideration of the interrupted 1.c item of the agenda, this is the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of Jože Tank as Vice-President of the National Assembly. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 23 August 2018. 85 ballots were distributed, 85 ballots were delivered. Eight votes and 77 votes were invalid. 74 Members voted in favour and 3 Members in favour. / applause/ On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Jože Tanko was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. We are moving on to a closed agenda item, which is the election of the President of the National Assembly. On 23 August 2018, the 52 members and the first-signed Mr Matjaz Han proposed to elect a mag as President of the National Assembly. Diana jeedan. Would you like to provide an additional explanation, representative of the candidate, Matjaž Han?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u12	I see I have a very important assignment today. Vice President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I believe that the candidate for President of the National Assembly is mags. Dejan jeedan does not need to be specifically represented. Opus of his rich experience and, above all, the results of his work, as an expert in veterinary knowledge and economics, and in recent years as a politician, is spoken of in itself. They say that today we have before us the proposal of an excellent candidate for the President of the National Assembly, which I believe, on the basis of my experience, together with all the Vice-Presidents, will lead this national assembly through all the challenges ahead of us, and believe me, there are few of them. That is why I am particularly pleased that the candidate for President of the National Assembly is mag. As a long-standing friend, a party colleague, in particular as a Member, he would attribute to him the ability to recognize the true goals and perhaps the same or even more important than this ability to achieve those objectives. That Dejan is an operational man, all his associates know how to say. Moreover, there are not many who on the political floor have a sense of vision on one side of what needs to be done and on the other hand a plan of how to do so. And Diane has it. Since the beginning of his ministry in the agricultural sector, his political path has been marked by a great deal of activity and personal effort to take effective measures to strengthen Slovenian agriculture and measures that have significantly contributed to the recognition and awareness of the importance of Slovenian food production. The use of Slovenian agricultural products is growing, thanks to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food led by Dejan Židan. In doing so, let me mention the strong support of the Ministry of the project for a honey breakfast, which is becoming a model example of the education of young people in terms of the importance of locally produced food and bees. Of course, this is not to be forgotten by all the efforts of the Magi. Dejan Židan, who, together with broader political support and support for the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia, paid that on May 20th the United Nations was recognised as a world bee day. In this year's national elections, there was a mag. In fact, for the second time elected Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the electorate and the electorate recognized a policy that, with its rich expertise, experience and personality, follows and realizes its objectives for the well-being of people. Tolerance, openness, respect, respect for different opinions and justice are virtues which, in addition to the rich professional economic and political experience of Dejan Židan as, I hope, an excellent candidate for the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u13	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u14	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Nice greetings are valid for colleagues and colleagues! The new coalition is made up, and we have also received the new Prime Minister of the Government, given that we have already formed the National Assembly and elected the President, this same President has promised that if he does not join the coalition, this city will be handed over by one of the coalition parties. It is common that this city is usually taken over by the second largest coalition party. In the past, it was also the fact that the National Assembly was led by representatives of the largest coalition party. Considering he's a magician today. Matthew Tonin resigned, and I would also like to thank him for leading the National Assembly in these two months, but I must say that he has been very ambitious about his work and has been quite active. Thanks for what you did. Of course, you could also become president of the National Assembly if the party you are running could also participate in this coalition. You didn't choose to do that. We don't have a central coalition. We have lost quite a bit of time to negotiate, so this negotiation is also significantly longer than the previous negotiations, if, of course, we do not take into account the negotiations that Mr Drnovšek had in the past. He spent more time on it. Now let's move on to the new candidate for President of the National Assembly. Mag. Dejan Židan was a politician for 10 years, he was also an economist, was elected three times to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, 2011, 2014 and 2018. More or less, he was sitting in the same seat as he is sitting today, and in the immediate vicinity of him, I sat by myself several times. I evaluate him as a person with competence, I know him to be tolerant and he is willing to listen and, of course, to respond appropriately. I personally appreciate the mag. As a positive person, I'm sure he'll stay that way when we elect him president of the National Assembly. The Desus Group, Sire Dejan, will give you their votes. And now, in the end, this. I can tell you that we're political friends, you're a pomorist with a Styrian sermon, and I wish you good luck in running the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u15	For the SDS Group, Mr Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u16	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! I am pleased and believe that we are all glad that now the coalition itself, as we have just heard, has said well that the Left Coalition is true, which is true. It is only right that we speak the truth in the National Assembly. Therefore, the Left Coalition wanted to have all the functions, and in this part it has now requested the office of President of the National Assembly. While doing his work so far, the President has done his work in an extremely correct and quality manner, for which I also express my thanks on behalf of the entire Group of Members. But the left one demands all power. You have decided in your negotiations, in buying that this should belong to a party of the Social Democrats, the SD. The proposal before us is Mr. Jew. Whatever Mr Jew's intentions are, his fate here will, of course, be the same as that of the entire government. This will be the government in which everyone else will be puppets, and the truth is that she will have Left in her hands. The formation of this government depends on the Left, the election of this government depends on the Left, every qualified vote depends on the Left, every veto vote of the State Council, elections and everything else. The left will be available and you will all remain subject to your beliefs, in your conduct, in everything you accept, the Left. That the Left always wants to play the game that they are the opposition, of course, is only the realization of that old river Vaclav Havel, that the lie is the immortal soul of the Leftist. And the lie here will be obvious, sorry, master. Unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal, Mr jedan, because because of the work he has done so far, it will not be possible for him to act differently in this function than in some not-so-good way to embody everything that is today left policy in reality, if we call it the right word, in truth. So this is going to be living in poverty, running from responsibility, running from the truth, restricting the freedom of the public word, all that what left policy really means today, is disguised for different words. If we go in order, Mr. Židan as minister has brought up the problem of the Slovenian Teran, and he has raised the issue of, say, Kranj sausages and something else. Our forests are falling because of the cyclist. All he's done is a company within which SD personnel are happily prospering. Thus we have a black and red archer at the same time, which under the tactics of Mr Jew begins Slovenian forests. This is the story for which Mr Juden is to become President of the National Assembly. We regret such a proposal by the SD, because within the Group of Members there are certainly better and more suitable people. Also his own client, look, he's put this policy in a position where he's below 10%, and now he's panicking some demagogues from a related party who's drinking blood because he can't find the right answer. And it's a serious client with a long tradition that combines a lot of knowledge, including quality people, and it puts her in this position. And for the prize, he's the president of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the responsibility here? This is an escape from responsibility and therefore this claim is justified. It's the same as restricting the freedom of the public word. The young party under his leadership has repeatedly committed itself to persecuting everyone who has spoken the truth about terrorism, with migrants, with everything that threatens Europe today, which threatens our nationality, which threatens our tradition, our culture. This is said to be the question of freedom of the public word when left-wings are in power. Don't piss off lefties any more than the truth. Truth is really the worst form of hate speech for lefties. And look, that truth that awaits people is a shortage and a further economic setback, because only new taxes, additional taxes, tightenings, more red tape are forecast. In short, everything that's left-handed today. This, of course, means nothing good for entrepreneurship, not for the welfare of people, not for the freedom of people, not for the future of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u17	I'm sorry, your time is up, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u18	As a result of all this, we cannot support Mr Jewn's SDS Group in running for office. We will vote against it. But at least we expect that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u19	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u20	that if he is elected, after his election outside, we will drink perhaps not with champagne, but with a terrace, and let this be the real Slovenian. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u21	Mr. Grimes, thank you very much. Mrs Sukić has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much. And for a little joke, I propose to a new coalition, now that it is time to set up a ministry of truth led by a colleague of Grims, and this could be an excellent lacuna paper to see if Levika is really good in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u23	For the SNS Group, Mr Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u24	and democratic arrangements for freedom of speech. [[turn off microphone]] Freedom of speech should not be limited, for then we go back to the time when we had an infamous article on the verbal delicacy that some of us naturally want to reintroduce, and this is what Levica wants to introduce. I have to say that I am very nervous to talk about the left- and right-centre variant – what is it? This is one more nonsense our lawyers have invented, which the Germans say is "Juristen böse Christen." It's an old pronunciation. We can't have the left middle, we can't have the right middle, we have the middle left and the right, and so let's be exact. I already said the shrine is freedom of speech. I hope they won't stop me now, because like I said before, the signal on Eon disappeared over Telemach, and while I was talking, there was no picture or sound – interesting. I hope this doesn't happen now – or also, well, it doesn't matter. Depends on how much control you have over things. Mr. Jedhan has gone after a very bad company. In fact, this matter is horrifying and will need a lot of energy and, above all, nerves to withstand all that the gentlemen of the far left will be cooking for it. It is important to know that they will not be gentle with him and will be blackmailing at every turn. I hope that Mr Židan – and I also believe that he will follow the procedure – will respect the rules of procedure and that he will not make a difference between the left and the right. Let's leave that middle somewhere else, but – efficiency, accuracy, what the President of the National Assembly has so far had, Mr Tonin. We will support Mr. Jew. We'll give him a vote. Someone would also say that we're giving him a voice on purpose so he doesn't feel too good. It doesn't matter whether this voice has to work, make sure that the garage doesn't come in later, so that you want to switch positions, because the ministerial position is in front of this current position in the National Assembly of Cat Cough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u25	For the SMC Group, Mr Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u26	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues, colleagues! Since the establishment of the National Assembly in June, we have run several key circles to this day in the formation of a future government and a future coalition. At the same time, the National Assembly has been fully operational in all of this, indicating that a large majority of us have also demonstrated in the meantime that we can be sufficiently constructive and at the same time ready to overcome certain differences that somehow arise from the heterogeneous nature of the political space. In this place, we thank the Mags in the Group of the Party of the Modern Center. Matthew Tonin’s brief but no less demanding and responsible leadership of the National Assembly. After us is the election of the President of the Government, and we have also elected two of the three Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, to whom we congratulate and wish for a successful work. The next step is the election of the President of the National Assembly. Mag. Dejan Židan, who is the candidate for president of the country's highest parliamentary institution, has sufficient experience, political and other people to carry out his work properly, according to our assessment. He has been employed in the economy since at least 2010, as we have heard. Although he was doing most of his political career as Minister of Agriculture, he had so much contact with the National Assembly and the National Assembly to assess that he also knew this work very well. The Presidency of the legislative branch of the Authority requires a great deal of patience, the search for consensus, including the withdrawal of its own party or other interests. So, each candidate, and not least, the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly must be aware that their work will require a great deal of honesty, wisdom and prudence in coordinating the words, demands and not least interests. We expect at least three from the candidate and from both vice-presidents, to whom we have given support or support to all in the parliamentary group, first of all: a respectful dialogue of arguments, and a consistent warning of the inadmissibility of the disrespectful, offensive and hostile speech that we have witnessed in the House of Democracy on several occasions – we can say that we have witnessed this in this regard as well – and that in the management of the parliamentary branch of power, processes will continue to bring about an increase in prosperity and more opportunities for the universal development of our society and the country, and that both the President, as Vice-President, will make an important contribution to the image of the well-functioning and progressive parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u27	For the SAB Group, Mr Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u28	Dear President, dear colleagues! First of all, our thanks to the Mags. Matthew Tonin for direct guidance without prejudice, for fair and constructive leadership of the National Assembly. From the context that we have now heard here, I had no doubt that the SDS, as such, would be a black eye to the future of the coalition. Of course, everyone can choose to vote the way they want, but I think it would be good if we changed our minds about the vote. The hate speech and all the things we hear here — the big word is hate speech, what really is hate speech or what is truth. This is not how I will say that I agree with the Member of Parliament, but she has probably made a good proposal. I'll say it anyway, mag. In our opinion, Dejan Židan is a true candidate and a competent person for the President of the National Assembly. His experience as a Member and, above all, as Minister, demonstrate knowledge, engagement, consistency and efficiency. With regard to the terrace, my respectable colleague, I think I know something about it, because I have also fought it in the first place, and here the battle is not yet over, far from it, and we know exactly that it can get different dimensions. No matter what, the mag candidate. Dejan Židan, President of the National Assembly, as the first of the same, has our support and therefore the votes of all Members of the Alenka Bratušek Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u29	Anyone else want a word to present the views of the members of the groups? If not, we have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? I'm asking you to report to the debate. I'm opening the application. The word is Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, and congratulations to my colleague Jožet Tank for his election to the Vice-President of the National Assembly. First of all, I must make it very clear that I cannot, in any way, support for the President of the National Assembly. I'll try to explain briefly why. There are two things I need to stress. The first is that I am sure, and this is good news for the Slovenian small and middle farmer that Mr. Židan has left the agricultural ministry. Today I think medium and small farmers are opening champagne. Thank God, but they may only survive in the future, because under his tactics agriculture almost completely collapsed. If you ask farmers in Slovenian Gorica, Koroška and all this environment, they will tell you the truth. But you didn't hear it or you didn't want to understand it. And the other thing that's bad news is that, Mr. Jew, you got this position because of the continuous attack by the SDS, by the deep state, by Forum 21 and, of course, by the regime media. That's the bad news. Dear Mr. Jew, I think you're an extreme leftist. I think that you are the man who is doing what he himself is doing instilling in others, and according to my personal assessment, you are the last of the Members who can serve as President of the National Assembly, who must be connected. Your performances in the election campaign have told us all about you how you are the man who brings together all political parties and how the President of the National Assembly should actually act in practice. This is one of the reasons, dear Mr. Jew, that you can never get my voice – because you will never do what you say, because you always have that key mistake of saying one thing and doing the other. And you're supporting that back-up network. The SD is the party that has so far made the most distressing to Slovenia, Slovenian citizens and citizens. I think this time you've usurped the right to take over the leadership of the country and form a coalition of exactly the party that broke the last coalition. They broke the last coalition and that's why we had the early elections and now you want to re-infuse the Slovenian people and take over everything in your hands. This is unacceptable, irresponsible, extremely subtly, rude and, in fact, I don't even know if I can use another word. It's really distasteful, which is what this deep country is doing. Even these coalition parties, which you have now joined into a coalition of six, are said to be a completely pure leftist coalition, you had no right to do so. If you've broken the coalition, if you've caused early elections, then it would be appropriate to leave to the one who has been entrusted by the people's voice to lead this country in the future. You didn't do it. By this you have shown who you are, what you are, and what customers you are, and that it is only about authority, privilege and so on. In this story you judge the parties that you were in the previous coalition, and this is SMC, SD and Desus. You should be ashamed of yourself in front of the entire Slovenian public! And now, in the end, you say how honest you are, how good you are, how work you are – why did you break the coalition? Tell me! Why did you go to the early elections? Here is Cerar, all those who participated – how can you now say something completely different?Oh, my God! These are things that I can never and will never support you for president of the National Assembly. Because you are not a person who would unite because you are an extreme leftist and work constantly against most of the Slovenian people, most of those people who fight for survival. All you care about is the privileges and the privileges, so I will vote against you becoming president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u31	Dr. Ange Logar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam President. For the introduction, I would only allow myself one brief assessment of the smart functioning of the emerging coalition — or you have already come into existence, even though the coalition contract is not yet complete. If we had any breadth and intelligence, we would leave Mr Tonin to remain the President of Parliament and in fact ensure that this coalition is significantly more acceptable and wide, although Nova Slovenija would not be a coalition partner. But then again, functions are delicious — or passionate. The President of the National Assembly is one of the three most important functions in the country. In this telenovela of the establishment of a new coalition, you have always stressed that only what is best for the country is good for you. So, may I ask, is Dejan Jeddan the best that this coalition has to offer for the President of the National Assembly? For if I come out of your promises before the elections and during the time of the coalition, then you must answer this question. Because if it isn't, then if Dejan Židan isn't the best thing you can offer for the President of the National Assembly, then in fact, we can say that you're starting to cheat the electorate. Well, given what you're saying. Mr. Cerar, you who invite voters with morality and ethics, I ask you whether it is for you or not. As a politician, you are now in the National Assembly, and on this basis you also make decisions. In fact, I'll remind you of your words because you say it isn't. You're seven. 8. While predicting that Mr. Židan will become President of the National Assembly, I quote: “But I wish that more competent criteria would also be in play in further procedures of the candidates.” So if you were not fulfilled in a specific candidate, will you, Mr Cerar, ask him to support you – will you not? Because if you do, it's more of a chorus for functions than morals and ethics. But I agree with that quote. I am going to say something else, and what I am going to say must apply to all Members who have been in the past and voted in favour of the Investigative Commission's report on banking crime. 59 votes received that report; more than this coalition. We probably don't have the memory of human fish, but we have a very responsible vote and we know about it. I will read to you the decision you confirmed by those Members in Desus, who are back in the SMC: “The Commission of Inquiry notes the attempt by the Finance Ministers of France Križanič and Minister Dejan Židan to decide on the NLB and determines the business damage of EUR 37 million for taxpayers in the NLB capital”, which we then covered by the taxpayers, “and EUR 137 million in the capital adequacy of the same bank in 2011”. See if it is necessary and ethical, if we are talking about political responsibility, if we are talking about the best candidates and if we are to improve political culture If you have already proposed such a candidate, then those who voted in favour of this report cannot support it. [[…]] Because if you do, then your voice in the National Assembly, which is traceable, is nothing. By this vote, you will trample those 59 votes in favour of the report. But what message do you give to the electorate if you first say that banking crime has to be pursued, we have the culprits, we find them - they are very clear from the transcripts of the December 2011 meetings of the supervisory board, what was the reason for the week's non-sales, that the stock was not sold for EUR 220, but later, after EUR 120,100 per share, each of us lost because of this – found, unanimously adopted without a vote against, but today, such a candidate as witnesses to the commission of inquiry, not only do you propose, you will also vote for it?Oh, my God! Simply in the National Assembly, if we want to bring politics closer to people, we can have credibility for our past votes and build a new policy on ethics and morality, Mr Cerar, we cannot support this proposal. Black on white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u33	The word has magic. Carmen Furman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u34	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished citizens and citizens. By protocol, the President of the National Assembly is the second most important man in our country. He is the guardian of the legislative procedure as the fundamental and key competences of the National Assembly. I believe that only a candidate with a great deal of credibility can be proposed in such a responsible position. A man who, with his work so far, has proved himself capable and worthy of our trust. I'm sorry to tell you that I'm a magician. Dejan Židan, with his political involvement so far, did not convince him of this. In today's debate, I would therefore like, inter alia, to summarize some of the past actions of the outgoing Minister of Agriculture, now your candidate of the coalition for the President of the National Assembly, which raises great doubts. The reason for my doubts about the lack of legitimacy of Mr Jewn to lead such an important function in our country is his work so far in the government, when in all today's well-known field affairs you have not protected Slovenian interests. It is also clear that agriculture was not a priority for anyone in the previous coalition – not even for you as a competent minister. Nothing has been done to improve the position of Slovenian farmer and to return Slovenian quality food to sales shelves and public institutions. Under the leadership of the previous government, in which you, of course, have participated, Slovenia has unfortunately become an amputated country with questionable access to the international sea. Thus, until recently, many elected Members and Members of Parliament have also complained about the political bias and professional inefficiencies of the past government in the composition of SD, SMC and, of course, eternal Desus. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, we elected a new mandate-holder, who, at the time of the national assembly campaign, stressed that in the Slovenian political space, it was time for a new generation of political faces. After all, I can identify myself with this category. In fact, I can say that at least until 3 June, we had a lot in common with the newly elected mandate-holder. Mr Šarec as mayor, as the head of the municipal administration alone, we have drawn attention to the machete's attitude towards the municipalities of the past. On the basis of the decisions of the past government on the situation and financing of local self-government, it is only sad to find that we had a government that did not act for but against local self-government. Unfortunately, I can also conclude today that Mr Sarec has taken the word. Obviously, we will only vote in the coming days on an old government with a smaller upgrade, and today we are voting on a proposal of a well-known political face that you have criticised recently as part of the previous government. It is clear that history repeats itself with you, too, with Mr. Sharpe. And, symbolically, today, August 23rd, Europe marks a day of remembrance for the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. May this day also be a day of remembrance, a reminder that people must respect one another, for without truth and memory there can be no reconciliation and a future in which we will all find our place. But to get back to today's proposal. Indeed, it is perfectly legitimate for the coalition of six parties to submit a coordinated proposal. I also believe that today, in view of the statements made by the coalition parties, there will actually be an election of the proposed candidate for the President of the National Assembly. Mr Židan, I wish you well in running the National Assembly, but I hope that we will not be discriminated against in your work, that you will not share us with the first and second-class Members, but that you will treat our proposals for the welfare of citizens and citizens equally and equally. I also really hope that we will not finish our work in this temple of democracy as the Slovenian Teran ended during your ministry in the field of agriculture. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u35	Since there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening a new round of applications. The word is Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Vice President, and congratulations on your election. Thank the former president, too, mag. Matthew Tonin, for the truly fine conduct of the National Assembly in these two months, when he could rest, wait, convened that meeting that would be necessary. He did not rejoice, but he did actively perform the role he played, I think by 80 votes a day, he walked the field, he met with foreign ambassadors and, above all, he was preparing changes that were important for the internal functioning of the National Assembly. As I was aware, the majority of the leaders of the parliamentary groups agreed with the proposals that we have jointly drawn up and presented to the MEPs and Members. Tonino. Then comes a day or two ago, when now the former President of the National Assembly is being attacked by the Left Group, saying that he wanted to raise the MPs' privileges. In front of the cameras comes the leader of the Left Group, Matthew T. Vatovec, and says: “Tonnes only cares for Members, but don’t take care of those who work in this National Assembly.” And that is what the leader of the parliamentary group says, in which the professional colleagues no longer wanted to work in this mandate because they did not pay them enough. Matthew Tonin correctly identified and also rightly suggested that those who run more important committees should be in the 61st pay grade, those who run committees that do not hold so much to be in 59. Interestingly, in front of the cameras, Matthew Tašner Vatovec, who led the Rules of Procedure Commission in the previous term, which sat for thirteen hours together, had the same class of payments as former Ambassador Urška Ban, who led the Finance Committee with 440 hours of work. Come in. It's obvious travel costs. Why are they from Kopra whether they come to the National Assembly or not, but each day they get a monthly ticket as much as it costs. Because now, if you wanted to get 18 cents a kilometer, you should come to Parliament every day, which would mean that you have a lower salary. And there's one more thing, flatfoot. It was not true that the decision was EUR 800 of the current 500, 600, 700, 800. Matthew Tashner Vatovec now gets 700 euros in lump sums and then steps in front of the cameras and says he opposes it. It is, of course, against this, because it would lower his salary again, because it is now a proposal for an unification of 600 euros. So much for the credibility of the Left as a coalition party and the leaders of the parliamentary group. As for the proposal before us, Mr Dejan Židan, the representative of this new generation, who has been promised so long in all the election campaigns so far, unfortunately, you will not get my vote. At each meeting, you have marked the SDS party as a radical right-wing party, and I believe that our Members and Members of the SDS will also be more widely disturbed by freedom of speech here on the right-hand side. I imagine no other way than for Members of Parliament and Members of the radically right party, according to yours, but you will not allow yourselves to debate this than you will allow your fellow Members, all six left-wing coalition parties. It is true that today is a happy day for Slovenian farmers, perhaps a slightly sadder day for tycoon Stanko Polanič, whom you served as agricultural minister all these years. It is true, however, that if we want to know what is going on in the national assembly or in which direction the national assembly will go, we will open the evening newspaper – again the Taiwanese story, the property of the Supper with which it was owned, unknown origin, but again, the related links with the boss of Mr. Jedjan Polanič, these are, I think, Boris and Uroš Hakl, who control this newspaper, which Dejan Židan is dealing with. And if we want to know where the waters are going, where the parliament will go, what Mr. Jew will do, we will just read to him what journalists and journalists via Stanko Polanič and the Hakl family are ordering in Dinner. Because of these and all the other reasons I can't list because of the time limit, you won't get my support.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u37	The word is by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u38	Thank you again very much for your word. I will reiterate our support for the proposal for the President of the National Assembly of Magi in our Group of Members, as well as personally. Diana jeedan. However, I do not answer for this, but I do want to say this to the new Member Carmen Furman, and I will say this now, at the beginning of the mandate, and I hope that this story will not repeat itself, this is true for all those who have not heard it before, so most in the SDS have already heard me, if you repeat such sentences and mention the customer Desus for all eternity, I will answer you the following. If Desus were not there, the SDS party would never feel the suspense of power. [[Laughing in the hall]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u39	Since there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening the application again. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to say that all by using a nice word, verbal fighting between left, right, green, red, black, gold, white actually takes energy, takes our time and does not bring this Slovenia, especially Maribor, nothing good. I would ask you to stop doing this, to vote against or for, as you please, and to move on. Thank you very much. / restlessness in vomiting/
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u41	May I have your attention and some calming, please? The word is Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It has been some time since the publication of the official results of the early elections, and we are still deciding on important human resources solutions for the conduct of Parliament, parliamentary bodies, government and its departments. But life runs and requires decisive answers and solutions. Postponing important decisions only increases problems and problems in both the domestic and foreign world. By electing Mr Tonin as interim President of the National Assembly, we have initially provided basic standards for the constitution and functioning of Parliament. The establishment of the three parliamentary committees is severely insufficient for our effective functioning, so I would like to see all the necessary working bodies in Parliament set up and put into operation as soon as possible, so that we can continue the successful work of the previous assembly of Parliament. I think it is high time that we confirmed today's new candidate for President of the National Assembly, Mr Jewish, and entrusted him with the leadership of Parliament, or put him at the head of the legislative branch of power. In the Modern Centre Party, we are aware that it has not been easy to reconcile all programmes, interests and wishes of potential candidates for the coalition, which will form a new government, but has only evolved after continued coordination. With good human resources solutions, we must show and prove that we have taken seriously and responsibly the function for which we have been elected. We're gonna have a lot to talk about, listen to it, especially hear it. The most important thing about this is that we will understand well, unify the signs of communication, so that we will all come to the same understanding of the conclusions that we will take. To succeed, we must also face the current legal and factual issues raised by the composition of the new coalition, the minority government with the support of one party, formula 5 + 1. In such a situation and form, we meet for the first time in our legal practice, so much more important is an argumentable and legally sustainable solution. Any confusion about the status of the party that supports the government but does not join the coalition must be resolved. Otherwise, we will always return to the basic dilemma of whether it is a coalition or opposition party and consequently its competences. Personally, I think that the cooperation of the Left with the ruling coalition is well regulated in a special protocol. Also in European parliamentary practices, the minority government is not special. I would also like to point out that I expect the opposition to cooperate properly, particularly in solving the strategic problems relevant to the quality of life and the quality of life of all citizens. We must not forget that the political and economic situation is changing from day to day in the world, unfortunately not for the better. In order to avoid the state in which we were in before 2010 and 2014, we need to take timely, decisive and real action and to prevent any crisis through proactive action. That is why I would like to wish Mr Dejan Židan's candidate for President of the National Assembly to lead us successfully in the next term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u43	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Vice President. Congratulations on my behalf, too. I can just relate to what Mrs. Widow has just said. I think it should be made clear that the Left as an opposition party has decided to support the future minority government primarily because it wants to support what was the great majority will of the voters in the elections 3. Junia. Look at the proportion of Parliament taking on the right political project and I think you can understand why. That is why we have decided in Levica simply because we are trying to remind this government all the time that it is necessary to change people's lives for the better and break with practices that have been particularly harmful, yes, I agree, even in the previous mandate. From here to the eyes of Mr. Mahnich, as far as the wages are concerned. What has been tried to do is actually and de facto raise wages for all Members. This is a fact and we have opposed it in Levica from the beginning, there has never been any indulgence on our part. What I think is more essential than being Members, for example, those currently in the 55th pay grade, raise these classes to 57 so that this money can be spent by the National Assembly from its budget for those who currently earn at least in this National Assembly, cleaners, maintenance workers, drivers and so on. As far as the mileage goes, look, I'm here every day. I don't know if you're here every day, but I would probably profit from Mr Tonin's proposal, but that's not the point, it's an exception to the public sector, where people who have to drive to work for a substantial lower salary such as sent-off salaries get a monthly ticket and that's it. As far as the peacocks are concerned, the last deal that the former president of the National Assembly tried to make before yesterday was an increase to 800. We have proposed a reduction to 500 in the left hand side. I think that here to manifest any personal interest or to actually get away from this agreement that was going on, yes, quietly and also with, I'm going to say what some big support is, is more than a distortion of what the facts were. And the key is that we have managed, together with the support of LMŠ, to transfer these changes to at least a later period, i.e. after the formation of the government. And I don't think that these are achievements that someone in this position could boast in this way or then try to do the truth in any way. One of God's commandments says that a lie is one of the principal sins. That's it. I mean, Left, I emphasize, there remains an opposition party. I think that this disclosure of these intentions has also proved this. We show that there is some sort of establishment that clearly does not separate between opposition and position and where privileges can quickly be unified. We are here to break this, to expose these silent arrangements when it comes to the benefits of individuals, and to try to expose them in the end. It is, yes, absolutely something and this is also mentioned by Mr Tonin in a statement some day ago that he has proposals to improve the salaries of employees, those who have the lowest wages in the National Assembly. I hope these suggestions come soon. We'll be happy to support them in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u45	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm opening a new application circuit. Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam and Madam Vice-President. Allow first, sincere congratulations and many best wishes for your successful work on behalf of the entire New Slovenia Group. I also sincerely congratulate our colleague Jozet Tank. I believe that, indeed, with his rich experience, he will help to make the parliamentary procedure as democratic and as smooth as possible. Here we are, colleagues and colleagues, sent by our people to make the best possible solution for people. There must be some axiom here that we are committed to the truth. We just heard some things from Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. I'm not gonna say he's lying. But he's telling the truth. He said that the salaries have risen for all Members. That's not true. That's not true. The leaders of the parliamentary groups have confirmed everything he has proposed, the only Left was against and is now in front of the media, and he seems the only saving, only honest parliamentary group in this House. Of course, Dr. Tašner Vatovec, although it is a matter of history, for the previous term, may have been offended, but he was an excellent leader of the Rules of Procedure Commission, although I have been following this from afar, we did not have a member, but the Rules of Procedure Commission, ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens, taxpayers, had a summa summarum full term of 13 hours. 13 hours. That's a dozen plus one. How else am I supposed to explain? We sat on the Committee on Finance – and probably also said something good and accepted – for 440 hours and now I will not talk about the committee I led, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on European Union Affairs and so on. Is it fair that that working body, which holds a term of office of 13 hours, shall have the same salary as the President/President of the Finance Committee, who has held 440 hours in office. The proposal for Mr Matthew Tonin's flat-rate was EUR 600. Why is it out there now, even though it's all working material, why is it now out in the media, which Dr. Vatovec launched, proposal 800? Because the majority of the groups proposed 800, there is no New Slovenia among them. The majority of the parliamentary groups proposed a EUR 800 flat and now it is Matthew Tonin's fault. His proposal, I repeat, and for the hundredth time again, was EUR 600. But most people make decisions. Either way, I'm wrong. Is it fair that some of our excellent professional colleagues should not have made progress, as should others in the state sector. It's not fair. And he loosened it. And we all agreed to that. A kilometer. Most of the groups proposed a kilometer 18 cents per kilometer. Most, not Matthew Tonin. Most of them. But now it's turned around here, incredibly twisted pointing at Tonin: Look at him, look at him. Look, it pains me, it really hurts me that someone is building their own, as I would call it, political recognition. So it is not about raising all Members, we are moving within the framework. Citizens know that the budget for this year is adopted, and we cannot and cannot, through budgetary frameworks, dot, even if we are an autonomous legislative branch of power. Of course, it is now certainly some kind of revenge, the assault of our colleague and President of New Slovenia and of course New Slovenia as a whole, because we and we will make it very clear that it is only Left with what the Law-Legal Service has said, as many constitutional lawyers have said, that Levi is after all the behavior that has actually helped start this government, that it is logical that Levi is a coalition party. And now we just have to get revenge on each other. Okay, we're gonna take this revenge, but we're never gonna go for it. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u47	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I have decided to intervene myself in this political show, yes, non-truths, let's speak truthfully, unrealistics, manipulations, deceptions and so on. Let's go in one order. Left is the opposition party that works with the government on certain key projects for us. And that is not a legal question, but it is a political question of how some political actor in the National Assembly is positioned. You can present a list of lawyers, hundreds of names, thousands of names, this basic fact doesn't change. It's a political issue, it's a matter of political agreement and we've agreed on formula five plus one. That is why we hope in Levica that the minimum wage will be raised to raise social assistance, to end the supplementary insurance to raise the lowest pensions and so on. And that's why we went into this five plus one story at all. That's the first thing. Second thing. If there is a fundamental consensus, which Levica is merely driving, this is a matter of functional privileges and functional wages. Nor does it hold that the basic proposal and the basic ambition of all parliamentary actors except the Left lie in the fact that the scope of functional privileges and salaries are raised. Either way, under the line, if the amount of wage money were to rise, this mass would be transferred to the pockets of Members and Members, one way or another. And there's no bill, there's no claim, there's no argument to deny it. Just contextual twisting and referring to some fictitious revenge. And if anything, in the discussions of my colleagues from the hard right side, I recognize some frustration there today. I think there is a double reason for this frustration, first because they have been left without more wages, and secondly, because they have been left without an even larger trough called the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u49	Let me just give you a warm warning that we are considering the point of election of the President of the National Assembly and we have come to a close in the debate. Mr. Grimes, did you want to proceed with the procedure? Then I give the word only to Bevko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! First of all, I would like to thank the President of the National Assembly, Matthew Tonin, for the good conduct of the Slovenian Parliament. Mag. I want a successful job in this mandate. This will be an extremely difficult and difficult task, since for the first time in recent Slovenian parliamentary history we have a minority government. I propose that we form the leadership of the National Assembly as soon as possible, that we elect a new government, but surely the time for a distorted exchange of views will still be very great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u51	Since there's still a desire to discuss it, I'm opening a new round of applications. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u52	Thanks again for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen! To all your colleagues and colleagues who are now so recalculated, while some have naively debated the subject, which you yourself have set out, I would only point to one thing. This is not a problem that would burden the whole of Slovenia. The development problem for Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, is that taxes in Slovenia are too high, that the environment is unfavorable for entrepreneurship, that neighbouring Austria, which is very close, and because we are in Schengen, there is virtually no border for the economy. This Austria is much more friendly to young, new entrepreneurs who are opening their business path. And because of that, ladies and gentlemen, young entrepreneurs, when you talk to them, those who are good, those who have ideas, talk about how they will go to work in Austria. And those who already have companies open their new companies there or transfer the whole business there. Similarly, the current pot of Croats, with the so-called simplified portion, has been added only 12 percent tax for those who may not know it. And of course all of this means that the most productive part of Slovenia is moving abroad, and accounts and social accounts, which are artificially inflated by left-wing people, remain here. And what is the final result? That the job, therefore entrepreneurs, is the most burdensome in the world right in Slovenia. And at the same time, there are predictions on the left, i.e. the domination of the current government and also the domination of parliament, that they will increase it by another hundred percent, even though we are on the Forbes scale completely at the top, we were once even declared a world record. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a developmental problem in Slovenia. And those in the government that will be ultra left-wing to name it with the right name, and you come from the economy, from entrepreneurship, from hospitality, how you will look your colleagues in the eye and you will say, we will raise taxes, we will raise them drastically, we will take additional bureaucratic measures, we will introduce additional bureaucratic supervision, that we will crush every entrepreneurial initiative, that in the end we will all be equal in Venezuela's socialism, except, of course, those leftist people who actually channel taxpayers' money in all ways in their own clicks and finally in their pockets. For those who are here today gossiping about privileges, believe me, they are cashing such money that you have no idea. It's called caviar socialists. What does that mean in practice, and you'll see. And those entrepreneurs who give money to give people a salary to give them a quality life that gives them 13th pay, different forms of credit, short-term welfare and social security, those entrepreneurs will now go because of the government that is coming. What a diversion it is when someone says, yes, we're the opposition and we're going to project support. Do you have all the people you want to be a fool or something? Find one who believes you. Projectively, ladies and gentlemen, we have supported every government in the SDS and voted in favour of those proposals that we have considered to be good, for developmental perspectives, for important for every part of Slovenia or for making it possible for people to live better. But you, with your votes, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, are not friends, you are the one who with your voices allows the formation and election of this government and guarantees its existence and you are the fundamental condition of its existence, and that is something else. You are therefore the crucial part of the coalition that allows the existence of an ultraleft government and because you have exactly those votes that are lacking to an absolute majority, you will be the key part of the coalition in all the most important decisions, and you will therefore be the key part of the coalition, against which all will remain only puppets, which will have many good wishes, but you will be the guarantor for that reason, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, to confirm the old saying that the path to hell is pressed for good purposes. And because of this, all this mistaking means only one thing, that we will witness the persecution of the truth, that we will witness the further rise of taxes, that Slovenia will go under your government in this mandate, the Left, which you will in fact lead, only sadly down [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u53	Your time is up, Mr Grimes, thank you very much. I don't think there's any more debaters, is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? No, then I'm closing the debate. More? I'm sorry, but then I'm reopening the application circuit. The word is Boris Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u54	Respected and respected! First of all, on my part, he also congratulates both new vice-presidents, as well as the excellent leadership of the National Assembly to Mr Mag. Tonino, which has actually proved to be excellent, has been highly interlinked, which I personally doubt about the proposed new President of the National Assembly. If you've all praised the work of the Mags in order. Tonino and saying thank you, how good was he, why were we changing him, or why did you insist and force your candidate? You say you're connected, you want left, right, middle. Then why didn't you leave President Tonin, even though Nova Slovenija is not in your government coalition? Then I'd have a question for you, especially for Levi. You're making a coalition of 5 + 1, the Left is the opposition. What if we looked theoretically and we were a coalition of 1 + 5? For example, only in LMŠ a coalition party, all the others – what? Opposition? I don't understand this composition or explanation. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Magi's candidate. The Jew knows that he was a minister of agriculture, we know a lot of his mistakes, of course he also boasted of many good things, but I think there were mistakes, shortcomings much more. A lot of money lost, a lot of money spent, mainly due to time-consuming actions, both at the sugar factory, and then, as you mentioned, at the terrace and so on. Farmers have requested your resignation a long time ago because of your unserious work. You were an agricultural minister, you were in a government that had just fallen apart, you were one of the key players to the collapse of this government; if you were such a good minister and such a good government, then this government probably wouldn't fall apart. Now you want to take control of the National Assembly in every way. Of course, you have a lot of elena and energy, as you said in the pre-election campaign, that you would like to be Prime Minister. Of course, you failed, now you want to take control of the National Assembly. I will not support you either because you have been called a radical right, a far right and so forth in the campaign for election, as has already been said. I don't think that's what I belong to. And such a man who speaks that way cannot lead the National Assembly, in my opinion, and I fear what it will be like to lead the National Assembly. However, it is also true that perhaps the voters who have dedicated 222 thousand 42 votes to the Slovenian Democratic Party, the SD, for example, 88 thousand 524, do not believe that they are satisfied and happy that you will now take over the leadership of the National Assembly. However, you will certainly do less harm in running the National Assembly than in running any ministry. Maybe just for the end, I'm a little bit afraid that since the Left has this government in her hands, something will happen soon, and in the style of a colleague from the Left, she will say, "Jewish, you are the weakest member, goodbye!" Let's hope not. And some people probably want that very much, even between you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u55	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u56	The SDS gentleman gave me the best possible point. You have used my words: You are the weakest member, goodbye! And, excuse me, the right is in such a position to bite, bite, because it is the weakest member. So we put together a government or something. [[Laughing in the hall]] With the support of the Left, which is called Mr Grims the Ultraleviary. And explain to me, Mr Grims, what's ultra-left here. You had a previous government that did everything like the SDS did with one difference: it didn't use so much hate speech as you call freedom of speech. The left party supported this government because it wants to show what constructive opposition means. What's SDS doing? And here is my answer to my colleague from LMŠ, you know, I, too, when I sat in these parliamentary benches for the first days, said how it is possible to exhaust Parliament, exhaust the people of Slovenia, the taxpayers whom you so like to mention, to exhaust Members and not move anywhere for 25 years because of one party that does not participate when it is not absolutely in power. And the reading of ultra-leaving to all others from the party where the most former communists sit, and from the right, who once followed us in a way, when we are always free-minded, even in the 1980s, fought for more freedom, more democracy. In short, it's just an ideological battle, just a undermine. So here I will point out that Left will support Dejan Jew for the first of the same, for the President of the National Assembly. The fact is that I, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, have always been very critical of his work, that I have been extremely sharp as an opposition member and that we have been on several different shores. However, one is substantive opposition, and the other is the principled entanglement with something and with some impeccable position of those who violate just all the rules where the hate speech has received the domestic right, where suspicious loans come from Bosnia, where Dijana Djudžić brings half a million euros, nothing to anyone, everything is fine, where Orban finances you, which God knows what you are promising him. In short, with what moral right do you rise up here and preach to us? Where did you get that right? That's what I'm going to say, comrade, Mr Grims, is an old Slovenian word. The old noble Slovenian word used for centuries. You put it out there, those who, like the Fitchführers, humbled themselves and rose above others. And the differences are so great that our people simply can't do it anymore. Huge numbers of people, employed people, live below the poverty line. Therefore, it is unacceptable to talk about raising wages for those who already live well. First of all, the first measure would be to take care of the J wage group, to take care of the people on minimum wages, for the pensioners who live after 40 years of working for this society. But there's no way to talk about privileges for yourself. Finally, I'll say that if we open the Twitter pages, the hate speech is clear on what it looks like. There are threats, there are instigations, there are lies and, above all, there are very vulgar and ugly things and even calls for slaughter. This, you see, is dangerous, respected and respected! And this is where we're really gonna have to mix things up. Are we talking about different opinions or are we talking about some here? And I hope we never fall to that level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u57	If you turn it off, there's a microphone. Thank you. I give my word to Alexander Rebersk.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u58	Your Honor! Thank you so much for saying that. In words, we're all alike. In actions, we're different. Dear Left, I haven't been here for a long time, the Left Party by that I mean, I haven't been here for a long time, and one thing I understand very quickly and then I understand them. Of course, it's nice to talk about raising minimum wages, and I personally really want to do this, but there are some things behind here that I can't get through that I can't even answer and comment on. I suggest that every time you mention a minimum wage, you start with yourself. Raise your wages first to your professional associates, so there won't be a major threat in the National Assembly, if you don't do well, you'll go to the Left. Start here and then say what you're saying. I understand Mr Vatovac complaining about my colleague, Matthew Tonin, because he will be deprived of his salary. But understand that someone who spent 13 hours in the previous term of office and sat at a board meeting cannot be paid the same way as someone who spent 440 hours. And this is just a fair payment in a total amount of wages that won't get any bigger. I am also pleased that Matthew has not forgotten those with the lowest income, and they too will receive higher wages. Matthew also proposed smaller committees, which would be more efficient and cheaper, and at the same time those who work more will receive higher wages. Reduced the number of Vice-President posts, these are the facts. These are facts that, I don't know, you don't want to hear them, or you don't want to hear them, but these are facts. But everything else is a collection of political points and I don't want to, and I don't want to, so I stepped into my colleague Matthew's defense because I know he's right. As for travel costs, it seems fair to me that someone who does not go to the National Assembly does not get paid travel expenses for this. Some money will be saved here, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u59	I would like to remind you once again that we are discussing the election of the new President of the National Assembly, and please, we are sticking to this topic. The debate was also attended by Luka Mesec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u60	Thank you. Given the fact that the right has been pointing cannons at us in the morning, especially with regard to our future status, I have to respond to this debate. First of all, what does it mean that we have signed an agreement on project cooperation with the future government. This means that we will become what you claim to be on the right all the time, so constructive opposition. We have made clear what things we agree and will support, and we have made clear where the differences are and will not support them. The fact that you deny this opposition status to such conduct, which it seems to be logically opposition, is only a result of political non-culture brought into this space by the right hand or closer to the SDS. We know how you work, I've been here before, and your political agenda is to overthrow every authority, every action, except in those points where you see any personal benefit or the appointment of any person close to you, of any important function in the country. All the others are apriorous against. It's obviously the only legitimate notion of the opposition for you. And that needs to be changed. We've decided to change that. I hope that this will also bring possible reflection to some other parliamentary group on how the opposition should behave. The destructive opposition, not just governments, has largely contributed to the state we have in Slovenia for the past 25 years. We are a reflection of the state of the country and the state of the country is a reflection of what we do. Nice to meet you. And when you talk about it, you have to start looking at yourself. That's the first thing. Now, secondly, I have to respond to these eyewitnesses flying about our salaries and so on. See, this is due to the fact that, of course, as all the parliamentary groups do at the end of their term of office, some people have changed. We had because we are the left-hand party, also, let's say, union consultation with employees, where the desire for higher wages was expressed. And I made that very clear to the press, and I also told them that we're going to take care of what we are. The lowest salary of an expert will be, I can say, a thousand 200 euros net, or about half of the lowest Member State's membership policy in Levica. That's probably the uniform we've got. But, of course, because I just said that people who worked for average wages, as they were in 2014, worked significantly too much, but now you take these words out of context, and you see that our experts are underpaid. But they didn't. They were paid after the systematization in force in this National Assembly, and we also decided to make amends after consulting them. I hope the rest of you get through so much right. As far as the appointment of the President of the National Assembly is concerned. Despite what Violeta said, which was a member of the Committee on Agriculture in the previous term, and despite the differences she and Dejan Židan had with the Minister of Agriculture, we decided as constructive opposition to support Dejan Židan today as President of the National Assembly. One reason is that we believe that he will do his job properly, but the second reason is that we will help to build the power that we see in the circumstances, is that we see the electoral result as the least possible, and I will not say well, because if we believed it would be good, then we would join the government. However, because we believe that this combination will be better than any combination with the right, your project has finally been clearly rejected by the people in the elections, because, look around the room you will see about a cut, two-thirds, one-third, who and whom and for what purpose the voters have expressed their support. That's what we're going to be, so much so that we can help set up a government that's going to take at least a step. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u61	Please let your colleague finish the discussion!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u62	more left than the one in the previous term. [[…]] And that's why Dejan Židan has our support today. Thank you and I ask that you also behave when we speak to those you disagree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u63	I ask that all of us in the Chamber be equally respectful and let them express their opinions and debate to the end. From all sides, the debate was a little wider, both from your side and from anyone else, so I ask if anyone else would like to discuss the topic that we are currently discussing, these are the elections of the new President of the National Assembly. No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. In accordance with Article 199(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the election of the President of the National Assembly shall be decided by secret ballot. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with Article 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in conjunction with Article 199(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President will be elected if the majority of all Members vote for him, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths, the Members and Members of Parliament will put the completed votes in the ballot box, which is at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot, please, Members of Parliament and Members, who will assist me in voting to immediately report to room 217, where you will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 3.25 p.m. and will last until 15.40 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I'm breaking up 1:00. the agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, to be resumed at 15.55 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 15.18 p.m. and resumed at 15.55 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u64	We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We continue with the adjournment of the 1st item, these are the election of the President of the National Assembly. The minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of the Magi shall be read. Dejan Židan as President of the National Assembly: “The vote was held at the House of the National Assembly on 23 August 2018. 60 votes were distributed, 60 votes were cast, 3 votes were invalid, 57 votes were valid. There were 49 votes in favour, with 8 votes against. (For vote 49.)(against 8.) On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Mr Dejan Židan was elected President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. / applause/ To the newly elected President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mag. I congratulate the actual Jew and wish him great success in managing his duties. The president of mags. I'm asking Diana Jediana to speak to the National Assembly. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I sincerely thank you for your support for allowing me to speak to you for the first time today as President of the National Assembly. I also thank you for your views today, both for your support and for the critical one. I personally believe that our first task is to tell each other what we think of each other, to express our views and opinions out loud, even though they will be critical. The criticism in the National Assembly must not be bad. It is precisely because of the criticisms and differing views that we set up a mirror for each other, that we face our opinions in order to know and be able to adopt better solutions that will enable our citizens and citizens to live better lives in all areas. As President of the National Assembly, I ask you today, as the first of the same, to maintain respect for each and every one of us, in all 90 Members and Members, that we try to raise the level of political culture, that we respect one another not only in this Chamber, but in general, in front of the cameras and behind them. Only in this way will our words reach the ear of the interlocutor, so that critics will achieve their purpose, only in this way will we excuse our task, which is why we are here, because of our citizens and citizens. That's what we're responsible for. We also bear this responsibility to all the employees of the National Assembly who help us to do our work well. Regardless of which customers we come from, what our views are, what we think are the right solutions, all together, us Members and Members and employees in the National Assembly, we need to be able to look into the eyes, greet ourselves respectfully in the hall and act in favour of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I really wish that work in this Chamber and in general in the National Assembly will not be primarily a quest for media attention, who will have a more sensational performance, because it usually goes hand in hand with regret and disrespectful communication, which for the first time affects each of us when it comes to talking about us, and secondly, denying all that we have spoken before the elections – that we will be elected Members and Members looking for solutions, not dealing with ourselves and creating new problems. Today is not the time to repeat where all the problems in Slovenian society are great, we all know that, especially the large number of our citizens and citizens waiting in health care, those on the verge of survival, our pensioners and pensioners who spend months living with too low pensions. With today’s new leadership of the National Assembly and the following weeks, when I firmly believe that the National Assembly will also appoint a government, it is time for us to move from words to deeds to solutions. Dear Members, honourable Members and distinguished employees of the National Assembly! I am pleased that we will take this new mandate together, and I believe that we will make full progress in our work. At the same time, I ask you all to knock on my door when you have problems, questions or doubts, and I hope I can knock on yours. Let us talk, be allies, regardless of whether we will not always agree to differing opinions, and be respectful of one another. I also want to thank the Mag. Matthew Tonin for his previous leadership of the National Assembly. And I sincerely congratulate the new Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. But to all of you, allow me, I want a successful job. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-06.ana.u66	I thank Mr President for his words. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and the sixth extraordinary meeting of the assembly. The meeting was closed on 23 August 2018 at 16.02 p.m.
