ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Monika Gregorčič, Mr Miha Kordiš, Dr. Franc Trček by 3 p.m., Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Igor Zorčič, Mrs Janja Slug from 15.45 p.m. on, Mr Jožef Horvat, mag. Carmen Furman, Mrs Natasa Sukić, Mr Željko Cigler by 13 p.m. and Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 2 p.m. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 9 November 2018, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for enlargement. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes in favour. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the agenda for the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of the proposal for a recommendation in connection with the global agreement on secure, orderly and legal migrations and the notification of the public and the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on international obligations relating to international illegal migration. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 35 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivac. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 24 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I first give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Janez Janša. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u2	Your Honor! What basically separates civilization from barbarism is the rules. Each civilization has some rules that are known in advance, by which it regulates its cereals and creatures, so that the individual is not exposed to the will of those who have greater power in their hands. So in this introduction, because I have only 10 minutes available, especially on procedure and rules. The content of this act, this declaration, which has the wrong title, is said to be some global agreement, more as soon as more time is available. To begin with, it must be said that it is an act that has a false title because it is not a global agreement that it is an act that shares the global, European and Slovenian public. And that this is an act that, I will tell him, a convincing majority of people in the West oppose, is trying to force him with trivial excuses, that it is something that is not legally valid, and that it will be adopted on 10 December in Marrakesh by acclamation, it is said, by clapping. Which is true, but do not say that on December 17th, this resolution is on the agenda of the UN General Assembly, where the vote will be taken. It is said that this is a formal act for which the State must adopt its views by some procedure, so that its delegation then decides at the General Assembly of the United Nations. Now, let's see how this procedure was first carried out in Slovenia. Today we have a meeting of the National Assembly to discuss this act. For a few days we had a meeting of the working body of this National Assembly to discuss this act. However, the government had already agreed to adopt this act with a false title a week earlier, without any legal or political basis whatsoever. Political because, in accordance with the acts in force in Slovenia and the resolution or declaration on foreign policy, the National Assembly acts here as an actor, which is included in the end. Legally, however, because you have discussed and decided on something, respected colleagues from the Government, which in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitution of Slovenia does not exist at all. The Constitution states that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian and the Government has confirmed an act that did not exist in Slovenian. There's no such thing as an official translation today either. You have given us a work translation that can be a tool, but cannot under the Slovenian Constitution be a basis for decision-making, especially on such an important issue. And that the thing would be even more comical or tragic, I had previously looked at the CVs of candidates for government members in this composition that you sent for hearings, and we found that a few members of this government don't understand English at all. So you've adopted an act you haven't even read. But if you did, you didn't understand him, at least not all of us. So it is not only a substantive question for or against what is stated in this Act, but it is a procedure that is illegal, illegal and against all the fundamental principles of every civilization. You'll say or say, it's a minor matter, an informal matter, it's not legally binding. That's not true, look, this topic is at the forefront of the debate, at least in the West. This topic is a topic that causes a country to withdraw from this circle every day. Speaking of 150 countries supporting this act, see, this is as it used to be when Yugoslavia spoke of the United Nations General Assembly, we have an unlisted majority, and they have adopted a resolution and condemned Israel, and none of this was applicable since the United Nations Security Council has not confirmed it then, and this is the body that actually decides on real measures in the UN. The General Assembly, of course, gives guidance and, of course, guidance in this so-called global agreement. With this agreement, the countries at, I think, 36 places, those who vote for it commit themselves to doing something. There are, therefore, some commitments that are political at the beginning, as always in any resolution or declaration, if this is adopted at the General Assembly of the United Nations and we vote in favour of this, these are obligations that UN members are committed to. This will then begin to flow into legal acts. I don't have time to mention hundreds of cases when that was the case. If you read this declaration with the wrong title, the name is wrong because any member of the United Nations that is a permanent member of the Security Council does not participate in an agreement, then this is not a global agreement. In fact, the United States has not cooperated since this last draft was published. Russia and China are unknown. Other countries, especially Western civilisation countries, stand out for each other. Yesterday, one of the coalition parties in Belgium announced that it was not supported, it is said, that Belgium would not support it either. So much for the nuclear countries of the European Union that are all supposed to be behind this. After the CDU Congress in early December in Germany, it is likely that this country will change its position in this regard, and in the end only you will be on the German-French train. That's why, smart in the hands! Read the text that is here today, and you will find in it everything anyone wants. You will find articles that say that each country is sovereign, and you will find articles that de facto equate illegal and legal migration, refugees and migrants. The term “illegal migration”, illegal migration, has not been used at all. However, it is written in four places: regardless of status, this, this and that There will be no mistake, this is not a declaration of human rights. [[…]] Now, in this debate, we went to the side street, if, all people, whether we are from Europe, Africa or America, we have the same human rights. We have them after the Declaration on Human Rights, similar to the declaration that has also been ratified, we have them, and that is not the subject. However, it is clear in this document that the right to migration is slowly being done for human rights, read: life at the expense of the stings of others is being done for human rights, and this is the end of some serious civilization. Because of all that is in this text, there will be nothing in the end, and the countries that come to their senses first will be so much better. See what the public opinion in Europe, in the whole Western hemisphere, also in Slovenia, 70% of people in Slovenia do not support this. And I suggest we just act smart and get the government out of it. Further, when there will be more time, as well as how such content has come to be, and why the final text has been quite successful in hiding from Slovenia and mainly from the entire Western public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In order to further explain the proposal, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jerne Vrtovac. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u4	Dear fellows, welcome! Why oppose the global agreement on migration? First, for substantive reasons, and secondly, for simple procedural reasons for the adoption of this document. Several points of content reasons why in Nova Slovenija we warn that this global agreement, under the terms, is not good. Firstly, because the agreement contains some controversial provisions such as: open access to the labour market and social services for migrants in the target countries. So it is a matter of perfect equality of social rights, Mr Minister. Secondly, the difference between legal and illegal migrants has also been erased, as the document does not in fact speak at any point and defines illegal migration, but only refers to irregular migration. Now I ask you why this difference has been erased and why we are talking about irregular migration on purpose, because the difference between illegal migration or irregularity is great, there is a difference. Thirdly, the document states that migration is the foundation of prosperity and has always brought wealth, innovation and sustainable development. And the claim on the benefits brought by migration is one of the foundations of this document. However, this claim is not accompanied by any analysis nor does it indicate which studies this claim refers to. Of course, migration can bring benefits, but not always and not everywhere. They also bring security risks, which we have seen in Europe in the last decade and also pose economic risks. The document further states: “Sanctions against migrants to re-examine and eliminate”. Thus, the document is placed above the legislation of the UN Member States. Furthermore, the 33rd item on page 24 states: “We are also committed to respect for freedom of expression, in accordance with international law, and to adopt, implement and maintain legislation that punishes hate crimes and serious crimes of hatred against migrants”. However, a number of questions arise. One of the questions is what are hate crimes and serious hate crimes, what is intolerance and what are, I say, "other forms of discrimination"? And the key question is, who's going to judge this? Who's gonna be that judge who's gonna tell us what other forms of discrimination are, what are serious hate crimes? In Slovenia we imagine this in such a way that the Peace Institute will be the one who will be the judge. I don't want this judge telling me what freedom of speech is and what hatred is. Will that be the media? Are they going to be media houses? This is not indicated in this declaration. Even some international lawyers, if I go a little bit towards the procedure, argue that this declaration is part of the so-called soft international legal legislation that sets international standards, and sooner or later they turn into normal law and guidelines that no country can refuse without moving away from the international community. What does that mean? Therefore, this agreement everywhere around the world has the same criteria for migration, which will not be more important either by elections or by referendums, as political decisions will always be linked to them, to these agreements, to these declarations. And political decisions are so legitimate only if they meet these global standards. In time, too, documents adopted under the auspices of the UN can become international legal instruments. We have been able to see that in the past. Next. This agreement does not contain one substance, namely an action plan which should address the root causes of migration. The problem of poverty must be addressed in the countries of origin of the third world, where these migrants are also coming from. This document, the action plan, does not define it. And only a little bit for numbers – China is investing about $100 billion in poverty alleviation in Africa with investments. The same is true of the United States of America. Europe is here for a severe test and a dog. The UN adopted the 2030 Agenda in September 2015, which states that by 2030 we will eradicate poverty. This document does not say anything about it, so it is practically going in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. On 16 November 2018, the proposal for a recommendation was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the working body of the mother. As the Committee did not adopt the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Germany, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President! Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished public! The Committee on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a recommendation submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by a group of 35 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Daniel Krivec at its 4th urgent meeting, on 6 November 2018. Mag. Branko Grims, on behalf of the proposaler, expressed disagreement with the content of the global agreement to define migration as positive and thus further increase the number of irregular migrations. Its implementation could pose a potential threat to the sovereignty of the target countries. He warned that the Government had not previously informed the National Assembly of its support for the Marrakesh Declaration and that it had therefore not acted in accordance with Article 3 of the Foreign Affairs Act. He also expressed dissatisfaction that there is still no Slovenian translation of the text of the global agreement. Following the examination of the proposal, the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the relevance of supplementing point 1 of the proposal by specifying the entity under which the global agreement was adopted. It has been pointed out that the Government is independent and accountable to the National Assembly in exercising its powers and that the global agreement is not legally binding. Mr Miro Cerar further stressed that the adoption of a global agreement for Slovenia is positive, since it is not a legally binding act, so that each country can sovereignly implement its provisions in accordance with national interests. It is important that we remain in the group of the European Union's nuclear states, as well as others who are aware that we cannot solve migration alone, but will be successful only with collective strength. He argued that the document does not establish a new category of migrants nor does it create a right to migration as a basic human right. He stressed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would also make an explanatory statement with Slovenia's detailed views on the accession to the global agreement, which would require a clear distinction between legal and illegal migrants and a clear recognition of the obligations of returning illegal migrants to the country of origin. Magus, too. Sandi Churin, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, says that the document for the first time clearly defines commitments that countries of origin must also fulfil and distinguish between migrants and refugees, between legal and illegal migrations, allows for a different treatment in relation to the nature of migration and regulates border controls and ensures sovereignty in the decisions of countries on migration. Dr Ernest Petrič, a foreign affairs adviser in the President's office, called for rationality and stressed that the President of the Republic estimates that the global agreement is acceptable as the first serious, otherwise non-binding attempt by the international community to harmonise a coordinated and resolve the issue of migration. At the same time, he pointed out that, in particular, the agreement on the separation between refugee status, a migrant for Slovenia, might be too clear and that Slovenia should make this clear in the voting phase of the UN General Assembly. In the debate, members of the opposition committee were critical in particular until the former government was determined that, at the time of its ongoing operations, it had supported the Marrakesh political statement and had not previously informed the National Assembly. They also invited the Government to submit a translation of the document before the decision was taken. They stressed that the funds allocated to migrants should be spent on social transfers of Slovenian citizens. Members and members of the coalition committee stressed that a global agreement is a political commitment that does not affect Slovenian domestic law and that it is a global direction, how to approach the challenges of migration in an integrated way, that a document based on international law includes the sovereign rights of all countries in the migration process, provides for the sharing of responsibility and non-recognition that dialogue, solidarity, fulfilment of the commitments already made in the field of migration Slovenia must be respected. No amendments were proposed to the proposal for a recommendation on the parent body. After the discussion was closed, the Committee voted on the proposal for a recommendation, which was adopted by 5 votes in favour and 11 against, and therefore the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation pursuant to Article 61(2) and the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009 on the home working body was completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u8	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, dear citizens and citizens! The government is united in supporting global migration agreements. Let me immediately state that the procedure has been carried out in accordance with the rules and established practice and in accordance with the powers conferred on the Government, as also stated by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Migration is part of European history, migration is part of our daily lives and migration will be a global challenge to the future. Before that, we cannot close our eyes, but we must ensure that migration takes place in an orderly and manageable manner. Of course, it is important that we discuss this phenomenon, but with arguments and data not by intimidation, intolerance or even conspiracy theories. Who are migrants, honourable Members and Members, citizens and citizens? They're mostly people. People with names and faces. With families, with stories, talent and hope for a better tomorrow. Of course, there are always those among us who are different, as well as those who have no good intentions, but this must not deter us from our fundamental humane state, and of course we must always, in society and in the country, ensure peace, security and, of course, respect for the agreed rules. Many Slovenian families are migrants who, during or after the war before the first war, went to the world to seek a better life for themselves and their family. Migrants are many construction workers who work in many of our construction sites. Migrants are many nurses and servers in departments of many Slovenian hospitals. Migrants are employed by Slovenian companies. Migrants teach at Slovenian universities. So the migrants are already among us, and some will come. I believe that is why Slovenia is not and will not be any less Slovenian. However, we must certainly say clearly not to illegal migration, and we must not allow migration to in any way endanger our security and our European democratic values. Migrations are not a new phenomenon, they are part of European civilization, part of our history. Europe is neither an island nor a fortress. She advocates cooperation and multilateralism. Europe wants to preserve its values and its security, its human face, solidarity and prosperity for its inhabitants. The advocates of the global agreement we are talking about today are the countries behind these values. The vast majority of European countries: France, Germany, Italy and so on, in fact, the majority of these countries and, of course, the majority of those that make up the core part of the European Union that Slovenia wants to belong to and with which it wants to participate. There are, for example, other countries, such as Switzerland, if we are talking about Europe, and the Vatican, or the holy seat, and so on. They all support a global agreement. Why does Slovenia support it? The first days and months of the migration crisis in 2015 have shown what can happen if countries do not cooperate if they improvise if they do not inform each other. In order to avoid irregularities, it is essential to ensure the close cooperation of all countries on migrant routes in the middle of the night, which leads people across an icy cold river. Our government is a strong advocate of such cooperation, which is also an important element in ensuring the safety of Slovenian citizens. The crossings of our borders must be regulated and only legal. Legally allowed, i.e. legal migration, we need many things, as I said. Illegal and illegal, we want to prevent and prevent them. The global agreement has come about with a clear intention of States participating, for the first time, in order to achieve safe, orderly and legal migration. Secondly, to prevent illegal, dangerous and irregular migration. And thirdly, to address the causes of migration. And whoever claims otherwise is deliberately deceiving. One of the main objectives of the agreement is in particular to alleviate the situation in the countries of origin, so that people should not be left home at all and leave on land and across the sea to foreign countries. Let me reiterate that the global agreement is a political document that is not legally binding. Of course, it is true that this agreement represents a political commitment. Yes, the commitment of countries to cooperate with each other in regulating migration flows, and this is certainly also in the interest of Slovenia. Let me repeat, the global agreement of countries does not commit to changes in national legislation and in no way interferes with their constitutional arrangements. These days, the often expressed claim that the agreement does not distinguish between migrants and refugees is absolutely not true. Point 4 clearly states that these are two separate groups whose statuses are governed by separate legal frameworks. It points out that only refugees are entitled to special international protection, as provided for by international refugee law, while this agreement we are talking about only refers to migrants. The global agreement in point 15 explicitly emphasises the sovereign right of States to determine their own national migration policy, conditions for entry, residence and work and to distinguish between legal and illegal migration status within their sovereign jurisdiction. No country in this world would agree to reduce sovereign decision-making rights in this area. The global agreement establishes no new category of migrants, nor does it establish any right to migration as a basic human right, it is nowhere in the text and this is unfortunately referred to in our public opinion, but it is not in the text. The agreement does not grant any additional rights to illegal migrants, but it stresses national sovereignty in the field of migration. Under national law, countries shall determine which migrants are legal and who have come illegally. Automatism is not to automatically obtain rights by coming to the country; it does not exist in any country and this does not bring this agreement. The standards for the protection of human rights and the treatment of migrants with regulated status in Europe, including Slovenia, are already significantly higher than those established by this global agreement. This agreement therefore brings in particular commitments to third countries that do not yet have these standards. Therefore, for them, in particular for countries of origin, additional obligations that have not been defined at global level so far. Some say a broad agreement opens borders for migration, imports of third worlds, imports of poverty. On the contrary, the agreement explicitly and accurately defines steps in the fight against illegal migration, human trafficking and criminal associations. It clearly defines the return of illegal migrants to the countries of origin or the duty of those countries to accept them. Finally, let me say that the Slovenian government, in order to make the content of this declaration clear to the Slovenian public, in particular, of what we accept, will provide a public explanation which is a common practice when similar resolutions are adopted in the United Nations. And in this explanation, we will in particular highlight the legally non-binding nature of this agreement, the sovereign right of countries, i.e. the sovereign right of Slovenia to regulate their own migration policies, including the determination of the status of legal and illegal migrants. We will stress that, in interpreting the agreement, we will clearly distinguish between legal and illegal migrants, such as Goal 16 on the integration of migrants. We will stress that the agreement does not commit to adopting measures to increase legal flows, and we will stress the commitment of countries to re-adopt their migrant citizens. So it's a commitment to accept those who will be returned because they came illegally to a country. Finally, it is crucial that Slovenia is together with more than 150 countries, with the bulk of Europe and the world, so that together we can regulate what no country alone can manage – mass migration and today's illegal migrations promoted by smuggling and other criminal associations. Large countries are no longer a part of this problem. And if, on the basis of this agreement, we can better work together and help the countries in which the crises arise, then fewer migrations to Europe will be made, less illegal migration to Slovenia and then these migration flows will be more easily managed together. That is why the Slovenian government, as I said, is united in supporting this agreement and that is why Slovenia will also remain on this path, so that we will remain safe at the same time as the humane and part of the progressive world that wants to participate, for our common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to the views of the parliamentary groups. Dr. Matej Vatovec on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! They are about four years from the establishment of the temporary humanitarian corridor, which also took place across Slovenia. It takes just as long to have an extremely active anti-human and scary right-wing policy. After these four years, the National Assembly has been considering this subject for the past 30 years. For comparison: the right shall convene an emergency meeting or an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly at each 16th positive asylum application. In Slovenia, a total of 419 people were granted asylum between 2015 and 2018. The total number of asylum seekers was 5 000 616 during the same period, which means that the total positive number was 8.7 per cent of all applications. In the total population, refugees represent or all foreigners represent 6 per cent of the population and refugees represent 0.02 per cent. Despite this data, the right hand continues to intimidate and threaten with the apocalypse, the destruction of the civilisation of the Slovenian nation, language, culture and everything we know. He insists on blaming these 419 individuals and individuals, or 0.02 percent of the population, for virtually all the problems we face and are facing. They're guilty of poverty, shamefully low pensions, lousy wages, unemployment, vanity, and so on. Of course, they forget that these problems were already present long before 2015, that in fact these problems were caused by laws such as the ZUJF adopted by the Janša government. Wrong decisions and wrong policies in times of economic growth just before the crisis, which caused an even bigger hole at a time when the crisis occurred, but well, let's leave it. In promoting conflict with the external enemy, the right is used by all the lowest means, propaganda, and — probably all the time — deceptions, manipulations, and lies. The SDS propaganda is so clever in its intimidation that it has even been subjected to a political environment. These days, three years have passed since the cutting wire was placed on the border. But it was not put on the border by Mr Janša, put by Mr Cerar, of course with the support of SMC, SD and Desus. The central parties therefore agreed to this right-wing populism and this anti-human policy. The military has granted police powers, the rights that go to refugees have been reduced to a minimum, under what are the requirements of European documents. In addition, the repressive authorities were granted a means of mass control and adopted a law that freely suspends international law and violates fundamental human rights. It is clear from all this that agreements and agreements, such as the so-called Marrakesh Political Declaration and the global agreement on safe, orderly and legal migrations, are essential. Not only at the level of the European Union, but at the international level. As far as the Marrakesh political declaration is concerned, there is no new issue. This is a declaration which, in the context of the rebate process, attempts to adopt an action plan every two years are the first to be signed by the Government of SDS in 2006 or on its behalf by the then Minister of the Interior, Dragontin Mate. The objectives of the document are to facilitate exchange and cooperation between countries on the migration path in North, West and Central Africa and Europe. If the applicants really feel that the document is so controversial, they should ask why they actually supported it in 2006. Another document requiring today's extraordinary meeting is the so-called global agreement on safe, orderly and legal migration. It is a political commitment by countries to work closer and more closely together in the field of migration. The agreement is certainly welcome and, at global level, a step in the right direction. In Levica, we see its greatest weakness just because it is not binding. Given that the main problem in recent years is the general absence of solidarity, particularly within the European Union, we doubt that the situation will improve because of a response that does not oblige anyone or where the parties to such an agreement are calling on them not to be bound. The fact that the agreement in this part is flawed is almost uniform also in the legal profession. But not the first and not the second document does not introduce what the proponents say, censorship. They do not take sovereignty from countries and neither do they require changes to constitutional arrangements. The names of the applicants in the recommendations should in fact be named with the right name. It's about propaganda, it's about deception, it's about manipulation, it's about lies. We're not in Levica for this kind of discourse and we're not landing. The exclusive objective of the right is to intimidate and promote hatred, as will be clear in today's debate, and it is also on two committees in the past week. At this point, I hope to say that there will be no discussion of the necessary improvements in the area of integration of all those who have decided to stay with us. Nor will there be a talk about reducing asylum procedures that are still longer than the statutory deadlines. There will be no talking about improving the integration of migrants, refugees and foreigners into educational employment programmes as soon as possible. In fact, we should urgently discuss why almost 20 years have passed since the last resolution on migration policy and 8 years since the adoption of the economic migration strategy. But I'm sure there won't be a talk about that either today. Instead of all these questions, which are certainly in place and should be dealt with as a matter of priority, the right hand today will capture and paint the image of the coming apocalypse. Let me conclude with the words of Ivan Janša from the EU Summit Africa 2007, quote: "Migrations are a particular challenge for our partnership. An opportunity is well arranged for all countries of origin and destination, as well as for migrant communities themselves. This has also led to the EU's global approach to migration. We must not get used to the images of desperate and exhausted migrants often immersed on the shores of the Mediterranean. These images testify to some other partnerships. Those who exploit the misfortune of others. The African and European sides must establish an effective dialogue so that they can work together on both, these partnerships and the reasons for their dangerous attractiveness." End of quote. And this sums up the objective or the essence of these two agreements. Ensure well-ordered migration, which will be an opportunity for all. He's still swimming on the shores of the Mediterranean. We may wonder whether we really want to or are accustomed to seeing such images.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Matthew Tonin has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. There must be a lot of guilt in the world. The United Nations data shows that there are as many as 800 million hungry people in the world, and every nine earthlings are hungry to threaten 200 million people in this world with climate change so that 60 million people escape the effects of wars. People move around the world a lot. Most of the time, it is the reason for the migration of hunger, and in recent times global warming, war and poor economic conditions. Surely it is in our nature, in the nature of people, that people always seek better living conditions. Above all, people seek peace and conditions for a man of dignity. But one thing in all matters is that open border policy does not solve all the problems mentioned in the long term. The open border policy, which many have identified as a solution to all problems, will not solve 800 million hungry people. Open border policy will not save 200 million people who have problems due to climate change. Also, open border policy will not save 60 million people facing wars, one way or another. The policy of open borders on short notice creates new and new injustices. With the policy of open borders of a developed country, to develop the world of the most creative people. Inventive, educated, and especially young. Who are these people who migrate? Inventive, educated, creative young people. These are mainly people in whom developing countries, third countries in the world, hope to be the pillar and engine of their progress and development. And with the policy of open borders to develop the world of this pillar, these foundations of the heart and thus make the situation worse in these countries. And in this way, instead of reducing the differences between the rich and the poor, we increase them further. On the left hand side, we hear very often about some solidarity, but it is mainly about false solidarity. We're talking about some arranged migrations. On this basis, then, we can only help those who can migrate. And again – who can migrate? Inventive, more powerful, more educated. What about everyone else? What about those who do not find themselves in third countries? Who don't have the money? Who can't afford it? What about all those guys? We therefore argue that open border policy is a false solidarity that causes more problems than benefits. What would be the real help, what would be the real deal, to help people who are hungry, thirsting for war? Helping them to eat, to fight pollution, and especially to prevent wars. In a word, to develop the Western world, in particular, creates a way for us to share technology with these countries and that we have effective international institutions that ensure that international relations are effectively regulated by the international world. In the past, it has been shown that various development aids in money do not benefit. Take a look at the concrete example of Afghanistan and some other countries, when we pushed the Western world into millions of countries, into billions of money, and still life in these countries has not improved significantly, even more, with such development assistance from this country becoming more dependent on the Western world. Various development aids also create even better conditions for increased corruption. Just look at that program All for food, when the United Nations and Iraq were operating here in a different way, how much corruption was created. This would make it much better to share technology with these countries instead of developing money aid. Current technology is such that it can feed all the people of this world. If we shared all the food we throw away with those who don't have it, we could feed everyone. Today’s technology also allows us to bring water, drinking water, to the driest places in the world. A system of dissolving works of miracles and providing water for many people. So technology sharing is the right approach if we are to help these countries effectively. And another important element is the effective international organisations, which have political power, moral authority and also the actual power to make decisions in practice. Are these the United Nations today? Our answer is no. And now the fundamental question that we must all ask ourselves in this Chamber is: Why, therefore, am I underlining a non-binding, global agreement of the United Nations on migration? If this arrangement is truly non-binding, then it makes no sense. Then there is another dead letter on paper, on some of the agreements accepted by the United Nations, and yet another argument that the United Nations is becoming a toothless tiger. If this arrangement is truly non-binding. And if it is non-binding, it further contributes to reducing the credibility of the United Nations. We are convinced that the claims that it is non-binding do not hold and that it does not. See, if not the other one, at least the working translation of this global agreement. In just 45 places, you will find phrases that say how the signatories of this document commit to something. And if it's really non-binding, once again, why do we need it? Slovenian legislation is clear and neither the government nor the foreign minister needs any further clarification. Slovenian legislation is clear where migration is permitted. Today, Slovenian legislation provides how someone can legally enter Slovenia with the right authentic documents, in some cases a visa is necessary, but today is the way to get to Slovenia legally clearly enshrined in the laws and therefore we do not need any additional statements. At the same time, the law is also clear on what happens if someone comes to Slovenia in an illegal way to commit a crime, a crime that needs to be prosecuted and acted accordingly. As far as migration is concerned, we have clear legislation in Slovenia. However, it seems crucial to us that we support this global agreement in a given situation, that this is a completely wrong message in a given context. All things need to be put in some context or if I express myself a little more plastic if a jumper jumps 120 m on a giant or on a regular jumper, this is a completely different result, although it is the same jump, for the same length. And even when we are discussing this global agreement today, it needs to be put into context. And this context is that practically our northern neighbour has deviated from this agreement, our eastern neighbour has resigned from it, and the Western neighbour at least in the legislative proposals is becoming very intolerable to these migrations. And if Slovenia supports this agreement in a given context with the current arguments and with the actions of our neighbours, in spite of all this agreement, then it is a number of migrants, thousands of them are on the Balkan path, they can understand as an invitation – Migrants, welcome to Slovenia. I am sure that such pressure on Slovenia will not last long. Please don't tell us that we haven't read this global agreement, that we're talking about it, we've read it very well. Please also read the goals on page 5 if you look at this working translation, which contains 23 goals to be followed by this agreement. And all these objectives are linked on the one hand to commitments and measures, commitments and measures. And not then talk about the non-binding nature of this arrangement. What is most disturbing about New Slovenia in this global agreement? The most disturbing in this global agreement has been the constant reference to and promotion of multiculturalism, although in many Western European countries it has been shown that multiculturalism does not work, that it causes many problems and increases differences, segmentation, contributes to ghettoisation and similar matters. But in this agreement, you have a bunch of incentives to multiculturalism. And another thing that's very disturbing for New Slovenia. It is not clear in this agreement that migrants are arriving in Slovenia. And because they come to guests in our house, in our country, in our country, they are obliged to adapt to our customs, our culture, our laws and, if you will, our stop. And not the other way around. There are many points in this document where we commit ourselves, where we should commit ourselves, where we are encouraged, that we should literally begin to adapt to the culture of migrants, to accept their customs, traditions and similar things. We just can't accept this. A lot of people here are going to accuse us of what they call nationalism and xenophobia, and I don't know what else. Nothing bad about migrants, they have a culture of their own, a tradition of their own, but it seems crucial to me, which is the basic bonton, when I come to visit you in the house, I adapt to your customs and not the other way around. And this is a key element, a key, most important point, which is extremely disturbing for New Slovenia. The next important thing written between these 23 goals is goal 13, look closely at these things. There has been a lot of debate over the past period, or this agreement is erasing the borders between legal and illegal migrations. On the part of the government representatives, we have been accused of deceiving the borders between legal and illegal migrations. But read objective 13, where it clearly states that the detention of migrants is intended only as an extreme measure. Have you read it? Did you hear that? “The detention of migrants is only as a last resort.” The point is, we have nothing to hold back from legal migrants coming to Slovenia on a legal path, these migrants have nothing to stop, they have nothing to hold back. Someone who comes from Africa, America or Asia, who has come to Slovenia on a legal path, with all the necessary documents, is a migrant who has entered Slovenia legally and who, if acting in accordance with the laws, has respected our tradition and customs, of course, is welcome in our country. Therefore, the way to keep migrants as a last resort is totally unnecessary. On the other hand, we have illegal migrants, where Slovenian legislation clearly states how the police must act in these cases. And illegal migrants need to be held. And that you have a reference in objective 13 in this agreement that the detention of migrants should be just as a last resort, is a completely wrong message. This is not an opposition opinion – in this house we have heard many times in recent times the police, which is not an organ of opposition, and this police claim that they already have a number of problems during the current asylum process, because at a time when someone applies for asylum and when the procedure is under way, whether they approve of this asylum, these people do not have to be held back or restricted by the movement in the country. In this year alone, in 2018 alone, according to the police in Slovenia, 4 thousand migrants have gone missing. I don't know where. Eight thousand of them entered Slovenia illegally, these are the ones the police actually caught. How many have gone by who haven't been caught, who haven't been recorded anywhere, no one knows. But 8,000 are the ones we caught. Four thousand, says the police, have returned them to their countries of origin or Croatia. For 4,000, we don't know where they are. No one knows. We predict that the vast majority of these people have continued their journey northward. They can also be a significant proportion of people in Slovenia. But the police themselves say that this system is simply ineffective and that it allows many abuses, and above all does not allow the country to clearly control who enters the country, who is in the country, and does not contribute to improving our security. Therefore, if anything, do not claim that this agreement does not erase the border between illegal and legal migrations. Once again, read Goal 13. He who thinks wisely must be clear that in such an agreement we have nothing to look for sentences and similar things so that the detention of migrants is merely a last extreme measure. Because once again, whoever enters the country legally, the police have nothing to hold him down, but whoever enters the country illegally has to be held by the police immediately. In the view of New Slovenia, because of the context in which we are a country, and because of the positions of our neighbours, it would be unwise to sign such an agreement, because it would be a false message for all migrants on the Balkan route. Secondly, in this agreement there are quite a few disturbing elements, from saying that it is non-binding. If it's non-binding, then we don't need it. But we think that this document will be binding for a long time. Thirdly, it is disturbing inside that we as a majority nation will now be able to adapt to those who come to us as guests. This bothers us and we do not agree, although I very clearly stress that we also respect other cultures and customs. But in our house, in our country, we can rightly expect our guests to adapt to our culture and customs. As mentioned above, this agreement certainly clears the borders between legal and illegal migrations. This is an important issue, and it is also an important political issue. Anyone who has recently associated with various ambassadors and other representatives of other countries can find that this debate is becoming increasingly intense throughout the world. Even in Germany read the last issue of Frankfurt Allgemeine Zeitung, you will see that even in Germany this discussion has begun to open, not to mention Eastern, Central Europe and elsewhere. A deal like this is inappropriate. New Slovenia does not support it and recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to sign it either.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Indeed, the issue of migration has been one of the most pressing political issues in the European Union and elsewhere in the world for several years. And also a question that is being specifically used for political purposes. For several years, we have also been truly shaken by photographs of people who on the way to a better life lose their lives either in the sea, in cold rivers, or elsewhere. Statistics on how many people, for example, have died in recent years in the Mediterranean Sea are horrifying. Some of these people do run from war, and most of them run from the unworthy lives of their country. We need to be aware of something, as long as only a few hundred kilometers from us live people who do not have a future, who do not have a house, apartments that do not have schools, jobs, jobs that do not have a chance to at least have an infrastructure to enable them to develop, and at the same time these people on mobile phones using the Internet that they have received from us, Europeans and Americans that we have rejected, watching the videos of a better life, by then migration will exist. And there will be a fact. Nor will the rejection of this global agreement stop them, and this fact will not change. The next fact is that this type of migration cannot be managed by everyone — or even stopped by what some would like — the country in particular, only in compliance with its national legislation. It is a global problem that we must solve together, both within the European Union and in a broader, international way, within the framework provided by the society of nations. And the global agreement, which is intended to do so, is before us today and we are talking about it. This is the first international response to the management of migration, which advocates better cooperation between countries in addressing both legal and illegal migration. By the way, and in no way insignificant, parallel and continuous way, a number of European Union activities are also taking place in the field of relations in this part of the world. I cannot agree with those who feel that development assistance is irrelevant to these countries. These people need to be helped to create conditions and infrastructure that will also enable economic growth, normal life and employment. Back to the deal. A lot has been said in these days. The point is that this agreement does not regulate refugees; the issue of refugees is governed by another agreement, but rather by the issue of migration. Thus, it does not equalize refugees and migrants, nor illegal and legal migration. Much more has already been said, and I will only point to some of the 23 objectives contained in this Agreement. In addition to the principle of respect for human rights, which must apply to both illegal and legal migrants, I hope that we all agree here, the agreement also states better border management, more against trafficking and trafficking in persons, cooperation in the area of return, police activities and the like. The agreement also discusses the obligations of the countries of origin, as well as the obligations of migrants. It contains some measures to regulate the situation in the countries of origin and thus to reduce irregular migration. However, as has been said several times before, the agreement stresses the sovereignty of each country in this area. However, as has already been said, not only in Slovenia, but also elsewhere in the world, in particular in Europe, this issue is so politically abused, this is what is the most worried Party Alenka Bratušek. The easiest thing to do is to intimidate people with some imaginary images, images of black, dirty people who are about to step into our home and threaten our property and maybe even our family, our children. But it's something else. It is a question of how we will deal with this challenge that has come before us and that awaits us in the coming years. Alone or as a strong and connected community of countries? The devastating experiences of the first and second world wars have prompted the emergence of international organizations, many of them also to ensure world peace. Many analysts agree that the issue of migration can also be a key issue and that international organisations must also respond satisfactorily to it. That is also why this agreement needs to be supported. And that is why, in this turbulent world, it is necessary to think in solidarity, to think about how we can help each other in this challenge. All too long, the European Union, for example, has allowed Italy to deal with the pressing problem of migrants arriving at borders or on the coasts of their country. The result of this is Salvini, which some in our Parliament believe is progressive and one of the most effective politicians in Europe. For Alenka Bratušek, however, such a policy is something that should be less and less or should not be at all. But unfortunately, there are more and more politicians like that. That is why this global agreement is also about which group of countries as a country we want to judge. Do we want to join a group of countries in which the United States and President Trump are at the forefront, Italy with Salvini, Hungary with Orban, and, unfortunately, Austria lately? Another important question is how Austria will agree on a summit in Africa in such a composition. I conclude that I want everyone in our country and in the international community to contribute together to maintaining the high level of civil rights that we have been able to obtain in recent years and decades. I wish that the country of Slovenia would always participate constructively and actively in these efforts in order to do together, not what is popular, but what is right. And because we like to do what is right and not what is popular, in the Alenka Bratušek Party we will continue to support Slovenia's support for this global agreement or its signature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Migration, whether free or forced, is not a new phenomenon in human history. Today, however, many politicians and countries who want to distance themselves blindly from the issue of migration or, on the other hand, use them to fuel hostility and create new conflicts. All of this leads to the destabilisation of the social and economic well-being of countries and to potentially worse conflicts with far-reaching consequences. This was what we were taught by historical acts and facts that took place not so long ago. In the Desus Group, we believe that we cannot and must not act ostracally until this phenomenon, because the area of migration management is an important component in ensuring security both in Slovenia and in the world. We must be aware that Slovenia plays an important role in the south-eastern region of the European Union. First of all, we also want to highlight a clear distinction between regular ones, including forced migration, and illegal migration. The latter are paying particular attention to a global agreement on safe, orderly and legal migration, in which we are committed at global level to addressing this international challenge multilaterally. By moving away from this agreement, we would move away from finding solutions at the international level, withdraw from preventing illegal migration and from cooperating in the fight against smugglers and helping the most vulnerable groups. As a transit country, however, it is crucial for us to discourage the possibility of illegal migration and, if it does happen, to ensure that illegal migrants are returned. The global agreement is positive for Slovenia, as provided for in the agreement on the participation of countries in the return process. The global agreement on safe, orderly and legal migration is not legally binding, so it will not interfere in Slovenia's own national migration policy, conditions for entry, acquisition, residence and work. Slovenia will also separate its sovereign jurisdiction from its legal and illegal migration status. This agreement is without prejudice to the legislative order of the State or to the constitutional order of the State. It does not commit States to amending national legislation and in no way interferes with their constitutional arrangements. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also joins in this. It is also necessary to deny the claims made by the conscripts that this Marrakesh declaration equates migrants and refugees and gives all migrants the same status as refugees. Nor does it remove borders or censor migration discussions. The Marrakesh Declaration deals in great detail with the area of return, readmission and measures against illegal migration and trafficking and trafficking in persons. The Action Plan covers areas that are key to improving effective action in the area of prevention of illegal migration, trafficking in human beings and returning migrants who do not meet the conditions for residence in European Union countries, which is also in Slovenia's interest. Everything must be done to ensure that migration flows are managed as best as possible and that illegal migration is prevented. This is a strengthening of the asylum system at European Union level, which will help to bring illegal migrants back more effectively and legally rejected applicants for international protection to their home country. Certainly due to the signing of the declaration, there will be no more migrants in Slovenia. On Monday, the President of the Government also made this clear in response to the oral question. For all of this, the Desus Group does not support the proposed recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u18	Nice hello to you all! Slovenia fought for independence in 1991 and fought for it. Today, the Slovenian government wants to sell this independence because of a declaration, one of the drawbacks that emerged in the multiculture of decadent Western circles, of course, under the tactics of Mr Soros, who is certainly one of those who is up to destroying European civilisation. Of course, those who do not care what comes after them have been assured that they do not have offspring. Merklov doesn't have children, Juncker doesn't have children, Macron doesn't have children, Theresa May doesn't have children. They don't care what happens to us in yours and our children, grandchildren and so on. I imagine that some people have a lot to do with everything going to hell. But there are many of us in Slovenia who are not up to it. That's why we wrote this paper that needs to be confirmed. Although the Committee on Foreign Affairs has moved this away, I have abolished it, I am sure that there is still a healthy nation in Slovenia so much that we will not allow this mess. In my opinion, this is about the issue of the Slovenian people. Betrayal always has someone who issues orders and issues salaries. So we can ask ourselves who got the payment and what kind of payment he got that he betrayed the Slovenian nation and that he issues it every day. Prof. Dr. Zupančič said that in this case it was stupidity or conscious deception in support of the government. I say it's not nonsense, it's not knowingly misleading, it's about someone being paid to betray the Slovenian nation. The history of the Slovenians is full of such treachery, but this one is even worse. The proponents say that all of this is not a binding document. This is said by some who say that international lawyers are supposed to be of extreme gain, but 47 places in this document say “we commit ourselves”. Then what does that mean? Or that it's one more false thought of our side, if you do, I'll do something my own way. I just think they bowed to this whole thing together. Of course, there is no translation into Slovenian, because if there was a translation, then people would read what kind of shit is written, and today there wouldn't be 150 to 200 people out there, but there would be 150 to 200,000. Those who care about their own children and care about their own country. And there will be a referendum or plebiscite on this matter. There is no right on the government to decide our history, our children, our future. All of them are completely equal in the document: legal, illegal, and I do not know any refugees, migrants, as they already call them. But according to the document, the illegal migrants will be gone at all, because the document allows the own state to allow the one who wants to go and who wants to go, only one piece of paper on which it says we allow an exit from the country. And these people will be able to come to Slovenia without any problems. And it is clear that those countries that will want to get rid of their cohorts, as they themselves say to those who do not like them, will, of course, share these papers long and long. And the document says we'll avoid human smugglers in this way. There won't be any more because they won't be necessary. Because everyone from every end will be able to come to Slovenia and Europe and no one will stop them. He won't have to stop them, as it says in this document. They will be able to move freely everywhere and, of course, have greater rights than 250,000 Slovenians and Slovenes and our citizens who live below the poverty line. This government of ours is behind us — it cares about our people! She cares about our citizens! They think: “Let them die! Instead, we will bring migrants who will work!" Yeah, they'll do the same thing as an Assyrian razor. I want to know who he shaves on the government and where he shaves it. [[Laughing in the hall]] Migrants are said to be a major issue for development, for sustainable development, to bring progress and benefits. Major migrations have already been made in history. With that, that's the only sentence I agree with. But I do not think that the greatest migration carried out by Genghiskan has certainly brought neither progress nor sustainable development to Europe. Even when Attila was slaughtering Europe, he didn't bring it. I don't know if you consider this to be a development and I don't know what kind of ratings for the countries he came to. Perhaps it is for those who justify it, but after all, because you, the so-called migrants, do it, cut their heads, rape the young children of all sexes, slaughter them in the streets. And they'll do it even more. That's great. Some people seem to like it. Some, unfortunately, enjoy it in ruling circles. I wonder what will happen if, God forbid, something like this happens to your child. Will you justify the migrant as in certain Austrian courts, if it is their way of thinking, it is their culture and so on. Will you then sober up and look in the mirror and say, "I was a fool." It's sad what you're doing. Very sad. In fact, this document is something like giving us a revolver with all the bullets and saying, "Now play Russian roulette." That's how you play with Slovenia. You put a loaded weapon in there – “and put pressure on your head.” The Russian roulette is like that. In principle. But the head in this case, as you're offering it, goes to hell. I don't think she's going to hell. She's gone to hell because she's empty. Maybe they're thinking about Russian roulette this way because in an empty head, if shot, it's an empty shot. I wonder why they don't send migrants of Mohammedan faith to those countries where this religion is common. I didn't see Saudi Arabia opening the door. I didn't see the Emirate open the door. I didn't see Katar open the door. And yet these people belong there. Not to us! On the other hand, there are increasing numbers of countries that are being framed by this document and will not accept it: America, Hungary, Austria, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Estonia, Poland, Australia, Israel, now Belgium, Germany, Italy, Croatia. As it shows, all these countries — and if we take Russia and Brazil — all these countries have idiots in positions because they do not understand the broadness of this document that our government is trying to impose on us. No, no, no. They're smart there. But we're just a servant's stoop. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. And I don't know what kind of gift it's gonna come out of Brussels because of all this nonsense and all this bullshit. The document says you're not allowed to think about migrants for now, if there's anything wrong with them. I am sure that in the short term we will also get an internal Slovenian law, that it will not even be allowed to think about them. There's only gonna have to be a nice conversation about migrants. This is a crime of free speech! And this is another type of criminal decision by the current government and the current ministry, in fact, I could say by the previous governments, in which the one who quietly brought this matter to the National Assembly and to the Government agreed to the reception, and then in the next government skips from the Prime Minister to the seat of the Foreign Minister. They say, earlier it was said, "Migrates are people with families and I don't know what". They are, but why do families leave home and come to Europe on their own? Why? We have an example of that, because I already told you, a barber who shaves a lot of people, and we don't know where. On the other hand, if we take people who have done a lot for Slovenia, they don't give them permission to stay here. To tell you the truth, Dan Damon, who reported to Sky News at the time of Slovenia's independence and who has made all Western media the most to recognize our fight against the Yugoslav army, this man cannot come to Slovenia because at the Ministry of Culture, two ladies or ladies or I don't know what they are, they don't give him permission. But a Syrian barber has a work permit. Isn't that nice? But maybe it's a mistake to be here with an educated man who worked for Slovenia, and that's why we can't accept them. And another thing, to compare Slovenians who went around the world with the belly for bread, with these migrants, as Foreign Minister Cerar did, is spitting in the face of the Slovenian people. We will not allow this in the Slovenian National Party, but I don't think the Slovenian nation will allow it either! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u19	The next time such an adjourned meeting of the National Assembly is held, we will suspend the meeting and allow conditions for normal work. Thank you. May I have the mags, please? Branka Grims to take a position on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u20	Your Honor! All the nice greetings, especially the nice greetings to patriots, either to those on the balcony, to those who insist on freezing before the building, or to those who are now with us in the mind because they are in the workplace because it is impossible to watch! First of all, I would like to congratulate you all, ladies and gentlemen, on the day of Rudolph Maister. In two days, it will be the 100th anniversary of his heroic act, which is why Slovenia is today to such an extent on its eastern work as it is. He thus corrected the catastrophic mistake of the then self-appointed government in Ljubljana, which rejected General Field Marshal Borojevic von Bojna, who offered all his invincible divisions to protect the Slovenian borders. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have Istria today, which is why we do not have all of Koroška and everything else. History, ladies and gentlemen, it is for us to learn something from it, for with our heroism General Maister could only correct one small part of the terrible mistake of those in Ljubljana. Today, one feels that history repeats itself after exactly a hundred years. That there is once again one group in power in Ljubljana who does not want to listen to good suggestions and works to the detriment of Slovenia and Slovenia. See, today we are talking about the Marrakesh Declaration, as it is popular to call it, or the term that is the title of the Act, this is the Global Act on Safe, Legal and Organized Migration, which is of course extremely misleading. But this act is basically very controversial. Even more controversial, ladies and gentlemen, is the process that has been carried out in Slovenia, because the whole process has followed people's backs until now. The text remained untranslated in government drawers when it was in the coordination phase when the National Assembly was to be informed by law. But the government confirmed it. And now the story repeats itself. Last Thursday, when the Government decided on the adoption of this document, there was not even a working translation available at all, since some ministers, according to their own statements, do not speak English, which means that people voted in favour of an act they did not read or could understand, which says much about the Government. But, ladies and gentlemen, even more interesting is this from a legal point of view, because many of you like to refer to law. The text of the Marrakesh Declaration or the Global Agreement was confirmed by the Government in its resignation, which had the power to carry out ongoing business alone and exclusively. It was confirmed without a prior opinion and consideration of at least the competent body or the National Assembly as a whole, although Article 3 of the Law on Foreign Affairs is crystal clear: "The Government reports to the National Assembly and informs it of all important matters in the field of foreign policy." So he's got to get to know him. She didn't do it. Which means that from this point of view, the procedure was obviously illegal or even illegal and therefore unconstitutional. And, ladies and gentlemen, the act that is doomed to Slovenia, which is extremely important for Europe and the further development of European civilisation – we agree with that – has been confirmed by the Government, which has been led by a party that has received only two percent legitimacy in local elections, which in every normal democratic country would immediately lead to early elections, as such government, of course, has no legitimacy anymore, but in Slovenia, fate is decided not only for this, but also for all future generations. The title, of course, is misleading, as it is. The translation could also be discussed whether the “agreement” is even the right translation from “compact” or not, usually “agreement” in English, by the way. But that's not essential. More importantly, the title “global” is already false. The United States has resigned, many other countries have resigned, including Belgium, which is very interesting. According to very reliable forecasts, Russia will also resign. And in the end, there will remain those countries that are original, who of course want to put their concerns on someone else, and those unwary target countries that see it on the side of the elite that they are leading, some benefit, for the elite, of course, not for their people. It is interesting that the debate has always stressed that these countries have resigned for internal political reasons. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, for the care of its citizens and citizens is certainly an internal political reason. And responsibility for its citizens and citizens is also an internal political reason. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, these countries are giving up on each other. Because of their responsibility to their citizens and citizens, to ensure that they are provided with everything that each government is obliged to provide. The other thing that is misleading is that, in this case, it is an agreement on safe, legal and orderly migration. Of course, the word “migrating” and “migrating” is very manipulated here. Unfortunately, there was one such performance at the beginning of this session. Migrants can be the day-to-day migrants who go to a neighbouring country to work, they can be normal migrations that were typical of humanity at any time, someone went to a neighbouring country, met someone there, married him, and that was it. And, of course, then there are those who are going to temporary work for a time, who have worked there, who have returned, and for these would actually be the starting point of this declaration, because this declaration at the very beginning puts migration as a source of prosperity, a source of development, a source of progress. But, ladies and gentlemen, what really governs this declaration is mass migration, mass migration. These, ladies and gentlemen, have never been a source of progress in history, nor have they been a source of development by chance, but they have always been, and without exception, a source of failure, a source of war, a source of the end of some civilization. The story of Old Rome is extremely instructive. There a huge number of tribes were dropped across the outer borders. The next generation of these tribes stood up to Rome, and before they could do anything, Rome failed. The end of civilization and then it all turned into the darkness of the Middle Ages. That's why you have to look at it with the right eyes. This act could also peacefully bear the title of the Orwell-Soros Agreement and fully correspond to its content. Orwell's because he manipulates concepts, manipulates facts, is contradictory, commands censorship, about it a little later. But soros because there is also a special part inside, dedicated to additional funding for the promotion of migration. Because this act places at the heart of migration as a source of progress, that they are something extremely positive, that they are a goal. In fact, it sets them up as human rights. And then it comes from how to speed it up, how to do it, so that it will go as smoothly as possible, how to control it, so that as quickly as possible, every few years it should be discussed how to speed it up. That is why this act is fundamentally flawed, ladies and gentlemen. The right approach is as typical as it was when migration was referred to as mass migration, somewhere by 2012, 2013, when, of course, the restriction of these migrations and the full force, including in the procession that some of you have already talked about, was aimed at helping establish where these people come from, the normal situation, the functioning economy, so that people would stay at home. Today, the story of migrants is really just one huge business. We've listened to fairy tales three years ago, yes, poor refugees are coming, and something like this has been said by a lady here behind the microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no refugees here and there can be no refugees because there is no war in any of the neighbouring countries. They're safe countries themselves, and no one is at risk. According to international acts, you're a fugitive in the first safe country or in the part of the country if it's safe. When you move on, you're a migrant. If you go illegal, if you go illegal, you're an illegal migrant. We have to name things with the right concept. To talk about what is coming now for refugees, ladies and gentlemen, if it were refugees, as we saw when the war in the Balkans was coming, older ladies, mothers with children, old people, those who are capable and qualified to fight, would stay home and fight for their country. But the situation is really the opposite. The child and the women are practically gone. New arrivals also turn out to be something other than the declaration, for many of those minors, it has turned out to be some age old. There are capable and trained people coming to fight, as are reports from secret services. While the old men are gone, there are no families. In a simple message understood by everyone and published on the Internet in various forms: Is it not strange, ladies and gentlemen, that the poor refugees themselves are coming to Europe who lost their family, their children, their documents, but have not lost a brand new iPhone and a full pocket of cash? Let's think about it, ladies and gentlemen. Today, it is true that humanism is a false humanism because of its suffering and death of people, an organized invasion of Europe. This migratory flow is driven not by war anymore but by money, especially money from financial eloquents such as Soros, money from Arab countries, personal interests and political interests; the political interests of those who are coming see their new voters. It is unacceptable what is happening in the Republic of Slovenia in the last few years, when an increasing number – now up to 10,000 – of Slovenian young people, the most educated, the most capable, the most productive young people abroad. And then MEP Tanja Fajon writes: yes, migration is a necessity, but we will import 10,000 new migrants. Things are so far away that today they're not even disguised anymore, they're not even hiding behind poor refugees or anything like that, but this act that's before us is talking directly about migrants. Once again, migration is business today, like all those stories about global warming and all those things. Who's a geologist knows what I'm talking about, but you can see how much hotter Europe has been in the past than it is today, and you will see how it really is. They're fairy tales. But it's business, actually, because it forces one at the expense of the other. And so is migration. It is sad that some authorities are involved, because this means that they are working to the detriment of their countries, putting them at risk and reducing prosperity in these countries. Ladies and gentlemen, who knowingly exposes their citizens and citizens to danger and knowingly reduces their prosperity, this will make them high treason. You should be aware of that when we talk about these things. Migration as mass migration, or if you want an open border policy as set out in this Act, is incompatible with the state of prosperity. This was discovered by Nobel laureate, Nobel laureate for the economy Milton Friedmann many years ago. It is impossible to have a country of prosperity and open borders. Ladies and gentlemen, how many people are working today from those who came as refugees in that wave? According to official records, a few percent, but virtually no one. Therefore, it is still possible to talk about social parasitism – to call things by the right name again. In some ways, this agreement is socialism at global level. Everything is accessible, everything is open, everyone can take it, and it's considered human rights. It is only, ladies and gentlemen, that such things end up in poverty just like any socialism. You import the third world, you get the third world. A lot of poverty in a pile doesn't make a fortune. The problem facing us today in mass migration, and Slovenia has not yet fully covered, fortunately, is the issue of integration. Those who come come today mainly from the field of radical Islam, even we receive the theatre of absurdity within the European Union, when everything is put on orwell's head, when people come to Slovenia from Morocco, Algeria, Pakistan, and so on, in short, from countries where there is no war, and they are told that they are refugees. On the other hand, Poland, which has accepted a million or more, according to the latest data, nearly 2 million true refugees from Ukraine, is actually raging with the pro-Russian part of the war — they are not regarded as refugees and they are mocking Poles for not accepting refugees. In short, I think Orwell is smiling at the grave as he watches these debates at European level. The problem for those who come from the field of radical Islam is that radical Islam is never integrated. He's getting ghettoized. They self-getoise themselves because their faith is such that, ladies and gentlemen, you have honour killings today in Germany, so you have cases when parents burned their daughter alive with gasoline, murder cases with knives and everything. [[…]] Only because she did not go out with someone who her parents would approve of, in view of their assessment, was not a sufficiently reliable member of Islam. That's why it closes, it's ghettoized. And that's why we have Molenbeek, for example, in Brussels, which is the source of terrorism for that part of Europe. I hope no one wants something like this to happen in Ljubljana, but some of the extensions you go to go look over there, and look where the money comes from, and you'll get a lot of clarity. And while the theatre is perfect, someone has declared it the greatest cultural achievement for Ljubljana in the last period. Of course, taxpayers pay for all of this. Before that, it was said what was right. Very vehement. Ladies and gentlemen, then I'll use what's right. It is not right, ladies and gentlemen, to get some who have worked in Slovenia for 40 years and have built this country today for their pension of poor 300, 400, 600 euros because it does not allow a person to live a life worth living. However, every illegal migrant costs Slovenian taxpayers EUR 1 month in 1963. That's not right. It is not right, ladies and gentlemen, that the whole debate has now taken place in the newspaper on how money for their children's lunch should be spent more effectively in primary schools than those parents who cannot pay for it. How to recover them, reap them! In addition - the same governments - five, six million for food for illegal migrants are out of the way. For asylum seekers. It is not right, ladies and gentlemen, that luxury flats with glass ceramic plates, with LED TVs, with leather seats were offered to migrants in the last term. I don't have it at home, ladies and gentlemen, but for migrants, yes! At the same time, someone in Slovenia froze because he couldn't pay himself, a poor pensioner, a chicken, because it was so cold. And another ten were frozen. That's not right, ladies and gentlemen! It is not right to discuss the need to save on food contracts for children after school and, on the other hand, for illegal migrants, special food, special conditions are required in the invitation to tender. It's not right, ladies and gentlemen. First, it is the responsibility of the State to ensure that all its citizens and citizens live a life worth living, then it can be helped within the framework of what is possible. But in this story we are talking about, there is only one help — that you can help where these people come from, by creating safe areas, by creating functioning economies. To import this means to destroy our own civilization, to endanger our own citizens and citizens, to reduce prosperity for our own citizens, and this is unacceptable. It's unethical, it's inhumane, and there's another term I could use. Where Europe has brought this theatre of absurdity, it is very clear from the case of Slovenia. When all things are done – real refugees in Poland are called, I don't know, on temporary work, because they work because they integrate, those who don't integrate, but they are treated as refugees. And in Slovenia, by the way, there's a very interesting scene where people who obviously didn't integrate themselves well, because they don't even know Slovenian well, but they've lived here for decades, they teach Slovenians how to be patient and integrate everyone else. This is really very interesting, what's going on with us. Well, when we talk about migration and migrants and respect for the law, ladies and gentlemen, we have really led this to absurdity in Slovenia. Seen from the point of view of law. For the law applies to all things equally. For everyone and everyone. This is defined by the Constitution, which is defined by fundamental democratic principles. If you get one migrant across the border in Slovenia illegally, you're going to sit for three years. If you get 530 thousand illegal migrants across the border, you're the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. It just tells us how much value has been lost in this country. So why is this government working so hard to confirm this agreement without even reading it, since the translation, when it was decided, was not even available in the working version? By the way, this work version, as I looked at quickly, is quite controversial on some points concerning translation, but let's leave it to another debate. Why has the coalition actually been buried in the battle for political prestige, as we have seen on both committees that have dealt with it before? In the end, you can't get rid of the feeling that there is actually a desire here that some of the things that this global agreement, or the Marrakesh Declaration, should be enforced. To say that this is not binding is, of course, ridiculous. I quote the President of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, Boštjana M. Zupančič, who commented on the statement of the Government of Slovenia that the agreement of the States does not commit to changes in national law and in no way interferes with their regulation that: “This is either a sign of stupidity or a conscious deception of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.” He also took care of the translation of the Le Figaro editorial, which completely denies what is stated here by the Government, and particularly warns, I quote: “The Pact also forces the censorship of conflicting opinions.” And that's a fact. This pact, if anything is worked out inside, is a matter of censorship. While the formulations that are in here are extremely interesting, ladies and gentlemen. States are committed to destroying all forms of discrimination and even conflicting opinions. And counter expressions – these are the opposite opinions, ladies and gentlemen. And then he goes on and on and on and on to fight xenophobia, and I don't know what all of it is, and everything that's connected to it. Or even lower, it says: “All that is similar.” That could be anything. This means that whoever is in power and will have this act confirmed will decide what is said and what is not. And to say that this will not be censorship, it is funny if again one paragraph below is explicitly written that in no way – that the funds will have to be completely cut off to those media who would in any way report migrants critically. Because of the fact that migrants will only be allowed to report positively, but from the point of view of the promotion, to highlight what is positive to the ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see that Martin Weber, his legendary statement, which I would rather not comment that migrants bring something more precious than gold, would go to Paris to Bataclan. [[…]] In Bataclan, ladies and gentlemen, not only were people killed, but they were also horribly tortured. This is the real multiculturalism that this act brings on a global scale. There's always talk of a multiculture. Multicultures do not exist, never exist and will not exist, ladies and gentlemen. There is only real integration when those who come adapt to the country they come to by respecting its values, its standards, written or unwritten standards, its customs, its traditions, its culture, its history, its language. That's real integration. And this is what, in the context of normal migration, the country is, of course, rich. What this act is forcing — and of course it wants to bind the language in advance — is that others who then demand of these countries target countries to adapt to it. That's the problem. And this is not one chapter in this act, not one whole paragraph, but one sentence in some way, that they must respect the rule of law of the country in which they come. It's not just about the rule of law, it's about values, it's about culture. And that is why today Europe is faced with the issue of its existence and also Slovenia. That's why there was a brexit — a self-defense reflex against the influx of illegal migrants, which was happening right at the moment that people expressed it at the referendum. I feel sorry for him. Slovenia is in the interest of the European Union and Europe as a whole to remain as it is. Slovenia is an export country, entangled in the economy of neighbouring countries. But of course, it must do so in a way that will be safe. Europe can only exist as a community of free nations, where respect for one another is respected and their interests taken into account. Without anyone being raped by some migrations, with some other religions and cultures that have never existed on European soil and which have caused Europe to lose its identity. Today, because of massive migrations that go beyond all reasonable borders, which this act intends to accelerate, Europe is exposed to this danger, and with it also Slovenia, to lose its identity. To lose its foundations, to lose its values. But people have the right to respect that. People have the right to respect all their constitutional rights, to respect their identity, to respect their culture. And this is primarily the responsibility of the State to ensure, of course, that those who themselves are not capable of taking care of themselves for objective reasons – this is a question of the social state. But, of course, I am talking about citizens and citizens of this country, not about anyone who comes and says that he is here now as a migrant or an asylum-seekers, and everything needs to be given for him. That doesn't lead anywhere. Because this is actually a fateful question – in some ways today we are where Master was hundreds of years ago and with him Slovenia – this is something that people should be asked about. See, Slovenia was created on the basis of the right to self-determination of the Slovenian people, which is enshrined in United Nations acts. By the way, did you know that many of the acts of the United Nations to which we refer today and even consider whether our domestic legislation, even constitutional law, was initially adopted as non-binding, in accordance with those fundamental acts of the United Nations? So much so that this is not binding and that this is not meant as human rights. If this is established – and I say that it will not be because many countries will withdraw from it in time and will never come to life in full – then this would mean that migration will be established as a human right. This, ladies and gentlemen, means that the end of European civilisation is that it is the end of national countries, that the end of Slovenian culture, Slovenian history, Slovenian identity, as we know it, and as we want it. I say that we have not created this country for ourselves and we are obliged to lead it well and to leave it, to preserve it for the next generation, to give it to the next generation. This decision is therefore extremely important. Therefore, as a result of the United Nations acts relating to the right to self-determination and the preamble to the Slovenian Constitution or to the basic constitutional acts of the Republic of Slovenia, which also speak of the right to self-determination, it would be appropriate to ask citizens and citizens where Slovenia should work – and to what extent the Marrakesh political declaration is included in that act, or otherwise, in order to preserve its own identity as far as possible, in respect of all the laws and legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm saying the right way is this other way. By the way, none of what we are saying today would have ever happened and could not have happened if we had consistently respected the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the international acts, but unfortunately someone took the right to suspend part of the law — that is still the case today — and that is why all of this is happening, and this act wants to legalise it back and even show it as something positive, and it is not. But as people are always right, people have the right to choose the way they are going, so it would be worth asking people to at least consult a referendum if, ladies and gentlemen, they all commit themselves, we commit ourselves to respecting the outcome, otherwise on a binding plebiscite. Today it is a matter of the existence of the Republic of Slovenia, the issue of the welfare of the Republic of Slovenia, the issue of Slovenian culture. It is not just this generation, but it is a question of how to preserve it – and I say that we owe it – to the next generation as well. We are obliged to keep Slovenia safe, free, independent, a rich state of prosperity for all, for the next generation, for our children. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in the SDS we completely reject this global agreement and the policy resulting from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The next is for the presentation of Mr Robert Pavšič's views on behalf of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Good day to all, colleagues and colleagues, good day to both ministers and all those who accompany us! The opposition wonders why the coalition is defending itself today. I am convinced that it is not because of a declaration, declarations or any other document; it defends itself because of human rights and the risk of human rights inflation. If we give in today, it's up to us tomorrow, and that's what I'm afraid of. Migrants are not guilty of having – I have already said this many times, Mr Grims – they are not guilty of having such a situation in Slovenia. It's your fault. It's my fault, too, because I'm a member of this House. We are the ones who set the framework for how we can live or live here. Given the global situation, it is difficult to remain indifferent today. The Council covers wars, economic crises, climate change, political change, the rise in crime. All of this has resulted in hundreds of millions of people fleeing their homes. Of course, criminals, extremists, or others with dishonest intentions are among them, and the vast majority are merely trying to survive with dignity. All these migratory flows are an issue that the world has addressed in an integrated way, and above all globally. They are a fact and unfortunately a constant. Every migrant, regardless of their status, imagines in its own way that they will be legal, illegal, war, economic, we look at everything with fear, because we have a feeling that they are endangering our way of life, our homeland. We look at them with fear because they are different, and we look at them with fear, because we too are afraid. We fear for ourselves, for our loved ones, for our homes. And since we're trying to protect our country, we're patriots. But by fear and by promoting fear, we will never become more patriotic. This will only be in case of absolute respect for the state, the citizens and neighbours and confidence in the system. Only the police can act at the border, but only the court can judge, and we can only judge in this building. And the spread of hatred and fear must be condemned. Of course, global developments make me uncomfortable, and I fear not, because I believe in the collective possibility and ability to resolve and manage the migration issue. However, I fear you, dear colleagues, precisely because of what I have pointed out at the outset — because of your actions, generalization and abuse of fear to achieve my political goals. Of course there's fear. We are all concerned, including with the memory of the end of the millennium. We have already experienced war among us, unfortunately, but even more so have many from our former common country. We're afraid of change because most of the time it means moving you to worse. All this indescribableness is why we are in real trouble today. With mistrust, we grow across borders and try to distance ourselves from ignoring problems. The Declaration – if we translate the word in its very essential sense, that is to say, the Declaration is a declaration – which we will see in Marrakesh in a month, covers exactly this: the conclusion that migration is a fact that it is here and that it is not only a problem for target countries. According to their origin, the views on the declaration are diametrically opposite. In fact, the only relevant issue is the treatment of today's topic, i.e. whether the global agreement makes progress in identifying the problem and brings potential solutions. On each side we find arguments for or against, so I wonder whether we have read the same document at all or if they have some different – I doubt it is just a question of selective reading. There is no guarantee that migration issues will be resolved through this agreement. We could talk about an agreement being non-binding. We could talk about the fact that every country in the agreement has explicitly guaranteed sovereignty in migrant policy. We could talk about the call for migrant flows to be addressed mainly in the countries of origin and later in the transition and target countries. We could also talk about the fact that in 2006 such an agreement had already been supported and adopted by then’s prime minister, John Janša — and has the situation changed since then? When the migration crisis peaked, Europe had to deal with it together, in an integrated way – has it been successful? No, which is actually visible in this session. The treatment of migrants itself was passed through national legislation, we were monitoring the market for several cultures and the European social system began to break through the seams. In addition, there have been more shortcomings in migration policy, some of which have been very worrying, but we have learned from this – that solidarity must be maintained in the treatment of migrants, first in the world, then in Europe, and finally in the home. Solid between countries. The result is also the present document, and even more so the European Union's proposals, which we discussed at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, testify to efforts to regulate this area. A more effective asylum policy is being developed, more effective return of illegal migrants, a common security force at borders and at sea, and now these measures need only be sovereignly integrated into our legislation, and so will be in the future. It is sad, however, that, not only with us, these few pages of the findings of the declaration are only a tool for gathering political points. It is an excellent opportunity to spread fear over the now fully established false news. But the theme goes beyond populism or demagogism and becomes propaganda. The facts are clear, they are here and they are part of our reality. We must decide whether to take a step forward ourselves or to give in to fear. Courage is not the absence of the last, but courage is the triumph of fear. Are we worried? Sure. On the one hand, we have national legislation, which, of course, must be respected and ensured for the safety of citizens and citizens, and on the other hand, we have humanitarian and human rights. At the same time, we are trapped in the danger of extremism — on both sides. Can anyone provide us with absolute security? I'm sure you don't. Can anyone provide us with understanding, understanding, and humanity? It's me. It's us. We need to recognize reality and understand fear, we need to trust in the system and, above all, in people. Ignorance or ignorance did not excuse, so information and education are needed. In the flood of false news and false profiles, which fill us with different images from all sides, it is difficult to find the truth — hard but not impossible. All you have to do is think critically. Truth and propaganda must be shared. The point of the political message is to convince people that what I mean and say is right or true. I hope that today there will be only one truth, one that is based on facts and reason, and I fear that you will persist in your truth. I believe that the hope in the eyes of the valet is along with his right to live a decent life, more than just an agreement on global migration, a Marrakesh declaration or a Rabat declaration. Hope is the one that disappears in the end, and so is trust. I still believe that we can reconcile our hope and confidence in our own country, that we recognize our patriotism also in that we do not deviate from respect for human rights – first here with us and then around the world. Therefore, in the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc, we do not support the derogation from the commitments of the Organization of United Nations, its own constitution and the messages of our anthem. Human rights are the foundation of our civilization. I am united with such nations and people in my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! On 10 December, it will be 70 years from the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which has granted all people the birth of human dignity in the United Nations and the exercise of fundamental and inalienable rights. The general declaration was not made against the will of the countries, but was based on their sovereign will to develop friendly relations between countries and nations through the concept of human rights and to build a freer world of social progress and better living conditions for all. A conference will also be launched in Marrakesh on 10 December to address the text of the country agreement on the assignment of migration in a safe, controlled and orderly manner. The coincidence of both events is not a naked coincidence, as the adoption of a general declaration is largely a response to millions of refugees, displaced persons and stateless persons after the end of World War II. Nevertheless, it would be wrong to think that mass migration is a matter and a problem at that time. In fact, migration was at the heart of events that transformed the world of the 20th century. Its first decade was marked primarily by ocean migration without chance, while the last decade of the previous century was marked by migration from the countries of the Eastern bloc to the West and from the developing countries to the developed countries. The fact that migration is a permanent companion of mankind proves that its number does not decline in the 21st century, but is only a moment of forced displacement of a record of 68 and a half million people. The dimension of the phenomenon of migration became more tangible for Slovenia at the end of 2015 when we were faced with the mass arrivals of refugees and migrants. Although most of them wanted only to cross Slovenia on their way to the target countries north and west of us, it was in this situation that the need for European and wider international cooperation in addressing migration challenges was most evident. Recognizing that we need a European and broader international approach to migration based on facts, accurate data and shared responsibilities, we were united in the Slovenian space. From today's perspective, when we are not faced with the massive daily arrivals of refugees and migrants, it is so much more incomprehensible that the right opposition at the head of SDS Slovenia wants to be exempted from the first global political agreement that emerged within the United Nations, which separates and treats refugees differently and different categories of migrants and includes countries of origin in addition to targeted and transit countries. The Republic of Slovenia, through its participation in and implementation of the global agreement, will retain all its sovereign rights and will treat refugees, migrants and other foreigners in accordance with our Constitution, our laws and international treaties that bind our country. With regard to the content of the global agreement for safe, controlled and orderly migration, the Slovenian political right has already agreed unanimously with the New York Declaration on Refugees and Migrants in 2016, instead of the language of cooperation, the language of right-wing populism has been taken over. Thus, in the same breath, he claims that the document is irrelevant because it does not bring any legal obligation to the countries of origin, but at the same time warns against the open borders that are to be created in Europe after 10 December, and to the foreigners who are to threaten our civilisation intentionally. Moreover, with the policy of the street, it tries to influence and replace parliamentary policy, which is all too much a reminder of the doctrine of Mein Kampf, that great political movements can only be caused by the human movements that are born at moments of outbursts of passion and emotion, which in the crowd are triggered by the feeling of irresistible chaos or the Huja word, deliberately cast among people. As if we had learned nothing from the experience of the 1930 ’ s, even though after World War II we promised ourselves sacredly that we would never allow what followed. These contradictions, in which they are entangled in their comfortable opposition, show that the problem is not in the document, but in that part of the policy which treats refugees and migrants only as figures on the chessboard of humanity, as warned by Pope Francis. As if they were not people, as the contrary at the origins treats them with a controversial document. Unfortunately, national egoism has regained positive connotation, and although the time is so that voters and voters are more easily persuaded by the fear of imaginary commitments and documents that the state is supposed to try to impose obligations on foreigners who are even bigger than its own citizens, the Social Democrats stand firm in the position that Slovenia cannot be excluded from the issue of migration and not alone to resolve it. Respected and respected, the challenge of migration is greater than that of Slovenia. It's bigger than much bigger countries than ours. And bigger than Europe. It cannot be tackled differently than at global level. The United Nations is the key and only universal forum in which sovereign countries can debate and try to agree on a coordinated approach to migration. In view of the purpose, objectives and areas of action of the United Nations, the search for solutions to this challenge necessarily includes addressing migration in the context of maintaining international peace and security, which is based at the same time on respect for dignity and human rights and promoting cooperation and the development of friendly relations between countries, between nations, between us and peoples. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the government's decision to keep Slovenia in a group of countries that are jointly addressing global challenges and that the proposal for a recommendation on the Committee on Foreign Policy has been rejected. Nevertheless, today we will devote more than eight hours to this topic, in which it is likely that the proposaler will not be lacking in truths, smooching and intimidation, misinterpretations and deliberate deception. Social Democrats will not be silenced by them and we will resist them today as much as we need to. For as the Czech dissident and human rights fighter Václav Havel said: "Human rights are universal and indivisible. Man's freedom is indivisible, too. If it is denied to anyone in the world, it is therefore indirectly denied to all humans. Therefore, we must not be silent in the face of evil or violence. Silence only encourages them."
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Modern Centre Party, the final position of the Group will be presented by mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u26	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone! The global agreement of the United Nations on safe, orderly and legal migration is part of the international process for regulating global migration, led by the UN for many years. As a formal start of the talks leading to the adoption of an agreement in Morocco, however, the resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly on 19 September 2016 is considered. At that time, Slovenia also agreed that migration processes should be regulated globally and contributed to the adoption of the resolution. After two years of additional discussions between countries around the world, the global agreement on migration now sets out 23 objectives, including regulation of the legal status of migrants, protection of vulnerable groups, women and children, respect for human rights, solidarity and dialogue, exchange of information between countries and prevention of illegal migration and trafficking in human beings. We also agree with these objectives in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. The UN Global Agreement on Migration will be adopted on 11 December at an international conference in Marrakesh, Morocco. It will be accepted by acclamation and not by signature, as the opposition parties have always been. This is a document that does not entail new obligations for Slovenia, but is based on existing international instruments. We stress that the agreement does not open the door to migration, does not equate migrants with refugees and does not conflict with international and European law. Moreover, the agreement protects the interests of countries and underlines the sovereign right of each country, that is, ours, to form its own migration policy. This global agreement currently supports more than 150 countries, including the dominant part of the European Union. He was also supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 29 March this year. Recently, 4 out of 28 members, which is 7% of the population of the European Union, have refused to support this agreement. We do not agree with the quartet of these non-supports, i.e. with these 7%, because we are aware that the migration problem cannot be solved by any country alone. That is why we are committed to a unified European Union approach in the field of migration. The right approach is cooperation, and the best evidence for this is the management of the migration flow in 2016, when Slovenia took the initiative to close the so-called Balkan route with the help of cooperation with countries on this path. We regret that opposition parties in the National Assembly are trying to misuse the global agreement for intimidation and manipulation and to divert attention from other important questions, but we do not understand why opposition parties so strongly oppose the adoption of these instruments governing migration, since it was the SDS government that, in 2006 and 2007, signed the rebate agreement and the common African strategy – the European Union has committed Slovenia to participate every two years in the design and implementation of action plans on migration and development. In the Member State of the SMC, we advocate that Slovenia will continue to be a safe country. The government must prevent illegal migration and ensure the safety of our citizens and citizens, but at the same time Slovenia will help people in distress by adopting and considering refugees who meet the conditions for this status. The global agreement of the United Nations on safe, orderly and legal migration is primarily an expression of the will of the vast majority of countries – 93% when it comes to the European Union – to participate in and coordinate with current migration flows. This agreement shall not affect the procedures and arrangements in force in each country. Slovenia must continue to be responsible for protecting its border, which is also part of the external Schengen border. We do not agree with the proposed recommendation in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the parliamentary positions. First, I make a procedural proposal to Mr Möderndorfer and then I give the floor to the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u28	Dear Vice President! I didn't mean to react on purpose, with my own opinions, as is the case with SDS, when it's spoken, if you're wrong to present your views. Given that the President of the National Assembly is no longer present, but it will certainly be today's turn to lead, and this also applies to all Vice-Presidents, I expect that a rude and contemptuous speech, which was also present during the presentation of Mr Jelinčič's position, will be stopped and warned without delay. Because otherwise, I will understand that this is now newly allowed in the National Assembly, and I will start to use words and opinions that some will certainly not like. However, I think it is right that Members and Members of Parliament, together, of course with all those we are discussing in this room, should refrain from certain markings and, above all, from the rude and undignified way that some have tried to introduce into parliamentary practice. That's my procedural proposal. I hope that this will be taken into account at least in the debates. But I'll follow closely to see where it leads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Möderndorfer, I agree with you and will closely monitor the debate of Members and alert you if necessary. I now give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much again for your word. I must say that, after what we have heard or have read from the coalition here, this debate is useful. We should have moved a long time ago if this darkness wasn't hidden. And we have also heard a little more honesty today than we have been following in statements by government and coalition representatives in recent weeks. But I'll talk about it later. First: a meeting was held here in Slovenia on Saturday or at weekends, a conference of the European Trilateral Commission conference, which some consider to be a global shadow government, is said to be an association of globalists, which has been gone for a long time. In the course of these discussions, it was also an extremely interesting topic on migration and on the problems it poses and how to solve them. I must say that no representative of the Slovenian government was there; for example, she was the President of the Serbian government. There we have heard some information that we need to know in order to understand why this topic today is shared by the world, Europe and also Slovenia, public opinion, as well as governments, including government opinion. First of all, let me say that I had a lot of fun with the statements made by some colleagues who claimed that we had already supported the document that came out of May 2018 – we are not so capable. We're capable of winning elections, unlike you, but we don't know how to support documents that come about six years later. It is true, however, that the debate on how to deal with the problem of migration due to the demographic boom in a certain part of the world – and especially in the European neighbourhood – has been taking place for a long time. It's been going on for at least 20 years. The first attempt of a global or some general agreement that was reached without the permanent members of the Security Council coming out of it were the so-called Millennium Objectives for the Eradication of Poverty in the World. Perhaps all of us are at least partially reminded of that glamorous session of the United Nations at the turn of the third millennium and the words raised about it – even Slovenian leaders were there – how we will eliminate poverty in the world in three decades. Specific phase objectives were set and the fireworks that were set on at the turn of the new millennium were in some way an optimist. Now we are more than half of this period, when we are supposed to eliminate poverty in the world – it has been partially reduced, in fact, but if we look now at the achievement of these phased goals at this time, we see that the vast majority of the world have forgotten these stage goals. They were most forgotten by those who today support this so-called global agreement on migration. If you want a specific number, some European countries plus Canada, which have actually drafted this final text, which you have translated only today in the working version, are making a substantial contribution to Africa's effective development assistance than those that do not support it. If you look at the European Commission's development assistance website, you will see that the whole European Union has earmarked $16 billion for development aid to Africa, $60 billion to China, and 10 days ago the United States Development Assistance Agency has also increased this amount to $60 billion for Africa, with the United States not supporting this pact. When we look at what it's like to say – you also have data online about how much Slovenia contributes to development assistance. There's no data on how far it's going to Africa, at least we haven't found them in the last ten years, but to calculate the proportion. And if you calculate this, you will see that one Slovenian, this is Peter Opeka, has eliminated more poverty in Africa than all Slovenian official development assistance for this continent. By the way, the documentary on Pedro Opeka recently experienced European celebrations and promotions, Slovenian national television, where this documentary was created, and this was mentioned in the reports at one, I will say, very shy. But that's what the world media has written about. So much for that. Instead of focusing on successful projects proven to be successful in Africa's so-called development aid, it is largely lost in bureaucratic channels, where various intermediaries coming from the richest countries are most picked up. NGOs and companies that in their titles have a very good sounding concept of humanitarianism do nothing; they line up nicely as parasites on this. Let's look at the key data. Let's start with Slovenia. We have the ninth oldest population in the world. The European average is slightly better, but also catastrophic. In the 1950s, the number of births in Europe fell by 50%, at that time in some Islamic countries from which the migration wave was the strongest, doubling or even tripled. During the Islamic revolution in Iran, when they threw away chess, Iran had a good 30 million inhabitants, now it has 75 million. You can find the same information for Egypt, Turkey, Syria and the Muslim countries of North Africa. Even worse expansion is in sub-Saharan Africa. The average age in Africa is once again lower than in Europe, below 25 years in sub-Saharan Africa. In Europe for over 40 years. Economic comparisons are even worse. In 1990, income per capita in sub-Saharan Africa was $3 and in Europe was $70. Today, when we should eliminate poverty practically in half, income per capita in Europe is $100 a day and in sub-Saharan Africa is $5. It grew from $3 to $5, in Europe from $70 to $100. Recently, information was published that more people in the world have a mobile phone than access to liquid drinking water or toilets. I will tell you my personal experience years ago when I was the head of the delegation that observed the presidential elections in Nigeria. Nigeria is the largest African country with 150 million inhabitants, with an average age of 23. A country with strong natural resources — oil, gold, diamonds, copper, raw materials, many things you have in your hands today or at the table — is also made of raw materials from this African country — but huge poverty. Although virtually all people, especially young people, speak English and all have mobile phones. Even in the poorest suburbs of Abuja, where people live in canned barracks without electricity, without water, without sanitation, they have mobile phones filled with solar cells. And when you talk to young people there, nine out of ten say that their goal is to get to Europe. By the way, high school students or graduates there know more about Europe and Slovenia than any average Slovenian graduate knows about Nigeria. They know our football players, they know GDP, they know social transfers, not in Slovenia, but in Germany, France, Italy. They're all capable of looking online in a few seconds. And it's clear what the outcome is – we're looking for a better life where you get a allowance if you ask for asylum, a day more than you earn in six months. Who would not in such a situation create a picture of an elected Kingdom that needs to be achieved and will be all right? The messages given in this document are completely wrong. It's completely wrong. It's completely wrong. Instead of focusing on what the world is agreeing on without any great country missing here, it is committed at the time of the transition to this millennium, so that, for political reasons as well as for profitological reasons, a document that will make even more chaos, both with them and with us, will be accepted. With them because the most capable will want to come here, and with us because it is a market of civilization. It is true that migration, as old as humanity – mostly these migrations have been bloody and bloodless – as a result, I will say, conflict and non-conflict situations, including climate change and so on, are also a constant, not a matter of the 21st century, as is now being discussed with the President of the country, I have heard. But we see from this history, if we know something from it, if we learn that they have mainly worked positively or that migration has ended within the same civilisational framework, but when migration occurs among different civilizations, it has always been bloody in history. Always. And great civilizations have collapsed because of migration from other civilizations. Migration within the same civilization is also able to create new nations – Australians and Americans are a new nation created by migration. They were not created on the basis of the genes of blood, but on the basis of a culture that was formed after people of different nationalities arrived there, but mainly Western civilization, European. And today it's hard to say that Americans are not a nation, most of them are prouder to be Americans than many in Europe, where the nations are significantly older. A little different, but it's pretty much like Australia. But look, look – the United States and Australia are the first to step out of this agreement. That is to say, countries that know what migration is, so do not teach them, indeed. There's still a lot of other hypocrisy. As far as Slovenia is concerned, it is possible that, when we led the Council of the European Union, the European Council has tried to raise interest in achieving these Millennium Goals; also as regards the regulation of migration. As far as the regulation of migration is concerned, Europe did not wait here for this so-called – wrongly called – global agreement, but regulated it by the Dublin Agreement and the Schengen Agreement. We have in the Schengen Agreement and in depth one migration arranged. It is only after we have settled this in the Schengen Agreement that there is real control outside and free movement within, that we have received a serious European legal basis that accurately distinguishes illegal migration. However, the Dublin Agreement, which is a formal act, sets out how to deal with illegal migration, what are the rights of those who think they have legitimate reasons to seek refuge or asylum in European countries – that they must request in the first safe country if they pass through the first safe country, and so on. In short, some legal framework was created, but it is true that with the great help of Slovenia, which is now boasting about it, it also fell apart in 2015. Both Schengen and Dublin have fallen in two Member States of the European Union and the Schengen Agreement, Greece and Slovenia; not Croatia, because Croatia is not a member of the Schengen Agreement, you must go across the border when you go there. We are now listening here to what a great contribution we have made, a huge contribution. Five hundred thousand illegal migrants marched through Slovenia. Imagine 25 million illegal migrants marching through Germany. I think the reactions would be quite different. While we are talking about solidarity, how we must be at the core of European solidarity and so on, you also have data online: with the money that Italy uses to put an illegal migrant waiting for asylum, you can help the eight in Jordan or Lebanon. Better, with the same money. It is only necessary to organize ourselves slightly differently, so that when it comes to actual refugees from Syria, we would all rather be as close as possible to home as you can wait there for the situation to calm down. And thank God she's partially calmed down. Indeed, the reasons for this demographic pressure, to which Europe is most exposed, cannot be addressed by this agreement and by what it says here. This only makes the situation worse at source and on arrival. Isn't it interesting that you have heard, by the way, in the performances of politicians from these nuclear countries in recent years or in recent months when this agreement is the main theme, anyone to mention the elimination of poverty in the world and the achievement of the Millennium Goals, which was indeed a global commitment 18 years ago? [[…]] Did you hear anyone? None. This is about a mixture of three things. The first is that part of Europe heals its own bad conscience because they are 2015, and here Slovenia was unfortunately in the midst of a Dublin agreement, and then under the pressure of a large coalition in Germany, a procedure to create a depth of two was launched on the European Commission, where, in essence, what began in 2015. It is said that nothing would be considered strictly that it is possible to apply for asylum in the first safe country, or if this is done, then those who come there will be distributed by the rest of the European Union, whether they want it or not. Even the proposal was that those who did not accept it would be punished for funding from cohesion funds. But in the last year, did you notice any talk about depth two? There was a strong rush, quotas, quotas – of course, Slovenia immediately receded here – but then it was clear that it would not go through and that the depth of two would not. By the end of the term of office of these European institutions, the European Commission, the European Parliament, this will not be accepted, because there are not enough votes for this, the next term will have fewer votes. So, depth two won't be. And when it became clear a year ago that there would be no depth of two, Germany in particular began to force this so-called global agreement, which now divides the world, Europe and Slovenia. And now I'm in writing those things that you just couldn't get into depth two. This thing is going to end badly, and it's all just one unfortunate story. This division is the least that the world needs, even less is needed by the European Union, and even Slovenia does not need it. There will be no positive thing out of this, there will be an argument all over the world, and this will increase until the vote of December 17th, and there will be no benefits. One man alone will not be in Africa, who would be in a better position to do worse. The fact that migration between different civilizations does not work has been demonstrated thousands of times. And regardless of the Communist manifesto and its interpretation, which we have heard earlier in the performance of the representative of the Social Democrats, this will not work. That's not gonna work. I will now give again the case of Nigeria: the same country should also exist, but the same nation, which is divided, northern Nigeria – Muslims, Southern Christians, permanent conflicts, does not go together despite the constitution that defines participation, equality and so on. And this is one of the main obstacles, instead of this country flourishing, is one of the main points of origin for migration to a rich Europe. And instead of the so-called West, the nuclear states to which you refer help to regulate these things, it just uses this chaos to buy cheap oil and other raw materials there. Colleagues from the left who are full of this support have a perfect blind spot at this point. Another such close case is Libya. Libya was once a totalitarian state. Some European countries have scattered it, no one has cried for Gaddafi – but what do you have in Libya now? Instead of a totalitarian state, you have a failed state, and people in a failed state suffer even more than in a totalitarian state. Remember how French planes bombed Tripoli until they ran out of bombs after two days and then asked the United States for additional supplies? In short, they helped spread it. Italy was very active. However, when it was necessary to build things back, people could have a secure future at home, not in Italy or in France, and suddenly there was nothing left of this European solidarity of the nuclear states to which you refer. This year we first experienced a development conference on Libya organised by France, which only invited those who support it, and from Libya came those leaders of local militias who have French support. Last week, a similar conference was organised by Italy, which did not invite France at all. She just invited the ones they support in Libya. And here we are talking about the European Union's single foreign policy, about how to sit on a train – I do not see it here, forgive me, here are the interests of those countries that are at the forefront and who deceive you with phrases. When we chaired the European Union, we were in the trio of Portugal, Germany and Slovenia. Part of this programme was also a summit with Africa – you are now quoting a speech – organised by Portugal, where we tried things concerning development aid, political initiatives, a single language to Africa, to move forward within these millennium goals to eradicate poverty. Portugal has made a sincere effort to do so, and we have tried to do so, but believe me, the ears have been very deaf, because each of these major European countries has their interests there, they have their colonies, and these things go on. While we tried to do something to ensure that the European Union spoke a single language in achieving the Millennium Development Goals for Africa, the main theme of the German-French train was whether the lower Cuban cars produced by France or the larger ones produced by Germany would be more taxed. That was their main theme back then. About Africa, I'll say, just phrases. So this picture of the world is not what you're painting here. The problem is enormous, and in no case can it be solved in the manner foretold in this Act. We are not the ones who say that this act is irrelevant because it does not legally bind, you are the one who is saying it – because the first sentence by the government representative went this way. We have this dangerous act. Because then, by forcing all these commitments, this talk can suddenly change, for this same speech we will listen to the government representative if the transitional left has a government then – let's hope not, but never know – who will say: "Yes, we have committed ourselves. We voted in favour of this in the General Assembly of the United Nations, this is our commitment.” Then he won't say, it doesn't legally bind us, but he will say, we've committed ourselves, we have to keep our word. It's really here, I'll say, very easy to operate on obligations. We see this in the implementation of the coalition treaty and these internal conflicts over what they wrote down, but this is a more serious matter. In addition, in forcing this agreement, the motive for mitigating this bad news has been the spillover of a functioning system that has actually separated illegal and legal migrations by 2015, and this motive is great in some European countries, especially in Germany. If you read the resolutions adopted by, say, socialist internationals in the last decade, you will see that this political option – including in Europe – see migration as an opportunity. The representative of the left said last time on TV "as an opportunity to rejuvenate", but with socialists this is a little bit more, I will say, philosophically and ideologically, because this comes from the Communist Manifesto, where it says that socialist society can only be formed if families, people, religion, private property and private education break down. If you make little assessment of the proposals that we have received in recent years in this direction in the case of colleagues from the left there, the opposition to the constitutional decision on the financing of education, etc. etc., a permanent proposal to eliminate sex and so on, you will see very clear efforts to realize these utopian nonsensees from the Communist manifesto. And migration is an opportunity because someone who comes from a foreign civilization, from a civilization where it cripples women, where they hang themselves in same-sex, where so-called blasphemy or perjury is punishable by death – this does not belong to this civilization and there is more of this inflow, is this decomposition that you want. Wrap it in nice words about solidarity and human rights and refugees, but that's it. It's pretty clear here. We must be grateful to the representative of the SD Group because he said so openly earlier in his performance. He also said frankly that the purpose of this so-called global agreement is to make migration a human right. Comrade Brglez is this – read what he said, and this is it. At first, I thought he was discussing the declaration of human rights because he was talking about it, but when we put it all together, we get out the very recognition of this hidden purpose of this act. However, as far as the UN declaration on human rights is concerned, I think that party can be quite silent about this act. I was there when we organised a public tribunal in 1987 that the then Yugoslavia should also ratify the declaration on fundamental human rights. When we watched the archives a little over the years, we saw that the State Security Service viewed it as a hostile phenomenon, and the Central Committee of the Union of Communists. It was a hostile phenomenon. The desire for Yugoslavia to ratify the declaration of human rights was also a hostile phenomenon in 1987. So be quiet about it. As for the hypocrisy, some of you go to a celebration every year in Poland in Koroška, where World War II is to end. On that road from the Huda Hole to Poljana, in May 1945, tens of thousands of civilians were killed, mostly refugees. They were running from death after the war was over. Partizan units have placed mortars on the hills around the Huga Hole and with mortar mines for three days have buried civilians in the grave hole and in that ravine. And you celebrate this humanitarianism to the refugees. The whale girls that were discovered in the Devil's Cave belonged to the fugitives who were buried there alive. If you search the newspapers of the last years of the country's paradise, you will find there practically every week a brief note on the criminal side of the plot of Yugoslav border guards who were at the border between Slovenia and Austria, Slovenia and Italy or Yugoslavia, and these two countries shot at the civilian refugees who wanted to go west without warning. The last civilian was the Yugoslav border guards in this country, which the left has for, I will say, the pattern of humanity, human rights and so on, killed, I think there at Sezhana, June 1991 – just before Slovenia gained its independence. One year earlier, Yugoslav border guards fired on the Czech family, which was sailing across Drava on the border with Austria, and killed two. This was published in the newspaper as: we are guarding our borders, civilians. In this same hall, the Left elected the President of the Supreme Court a man who, on a committee composed of the Utba, the Yugoslav Intelligence Service and, I will say, a representative of the Court, legalized such killings. And he even said how to congratulate a border guard who shot a civilian fugitive in the forehead. You supported him at the time of Pahor's government and he was the President of the Supreme Court. And here you are crying about the fugitives. As far as Slovenian solidarity is concerned, Slovenia had significantly lower GDP in 1992-1994, when we helped more than 70,000 refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina – civilians, mostly older men and women with children – regardless of whether they came from Serbian work, Muslim work, Croatian work, everywhere. Well, we thought they were refugees. At our refugee centers, they were under the Ministry of Defense, where I was the minister, we cared for 35,000 people. I wonder which one of you ever cared about a fugitive somewhere or this problem at that time. No one in Slovenia objected at the time. We knew it was refugees, it wasn't exploitation, and we were just helping. Many Slovenian families also accepted them and helped them. Our client thinks that she has formally proposed twice or three times that Slovenia should develop a special programme for the repatriation of those Slovenians who had to do so after World War II or in fear of death and sanctions or with the stomach for bread. Make a special program for these people to come back. Even because many in this time of the world have succeeded, they have become top scientists, doctors, professors, artists, athletes. This proposal has never gone through. Even when we had a government and a coalition, there was no agreement in the coalition on such a programme, and that is why we did not have the majority. Now there has been a few suggestions to help the ten Slovenians who want from Venezuela out of that, I will say, a socialist paradise into a normal life. Where is your solidarity and humanity here? Suddenly, the ears are deaf. A few weeks ago, there was a request, an official request, that the state would offer asylum to Asia Bibi, which the Pakistani court sentenced to death for refusing to join the Islamic faith. Did you make an offer? It was one man alone. When it came to Ahmad of Syria, here was his refuge, in the National Assembly you hid him. When it came to this world-renowned case, it was quiet. So when it comes to this hypocrisy, I suggest that you remain silent and that we do not convince ourselves here in this sense: whoever is against this agreement is the far right hand – by the way, 70% of the people in this country are declared to be the far right – who is in favour, but who is the man who is the man who is the man who is, but is advanced, and I don't know what. That's, I'll say, it's all completely out of the vine. In addition to these two motives, one is the mitigation of bad news; the other is the political interest in, I will say, the socialist option, there is a third interest in forcing such an agreement, and these are the profits. Trafficking in human beings today is one of the most profitable businesses in the world. A few days ago, we heard information from the Slovenian police on the Secret Service Supervisory Commission, which is public, and the Slovenian media is hiding it like a snake's foot, two data, in fact, hiding another more. The first is that this rise in pressure from illegal migrants on Slovenia is dramatic, that even neighbouring countries are now not returning one or two or a few ten, but a few hundred, especially Italy, that this is a five-fold increase last year than last year. The most worrying information is that the Slovenian police only discovered 169 smugglers this year. Thus, this year, the Slovenian police received 169 individuals who smuggle illegal migrants into Slovenia and through Slovenia. If she found 169, there's probably a lot more that she didn't find. And in addition to these illegal migrants who have been discovered, there are probably many more who have not been discovered and who will be returned to Slovenia by neighbouring countries, especially Italy. This is what it says in this document, czech, the means of public information must report it censored, according to local words – this is already happening in Slovenia. [[…]] This is already happening in Slovenia. And yes, look, then there's speculation and false news in the other direction. Because if you don't tell people it's 500, someone can say it's 5,000, and they'll get engaged. So the only defense against false news is the truth. Tell the truth, tell us what we're gonna do, what we can do, and people won't fall for false news. Here is not the problem with Slovenian police, which is at the extreme limits of their capacity to manage this problem, but with the Government and this policy. In this debate, which we have heard here, we have lost all answers to the concrete evidence of this document. Both the ones we have told the proponents and those who appear in the public. One concrete statement of what the specific commitments under this agreement mean has not been answered. Even today's work translation, we are now listening to when everything – even 2006 is supposed to be accepted, this document, translated today – has already been known, and in Marrakesh they do not know whether Mr Cerar or who has applauded there similar starting points, and the translation is only today. [[…]] Why is he hiding? I must say that this is not only in Slovenia, even in some other countries, it has been hidden. Yesterday a debate began in Germany, which will be very interesting as far as the conclusions are concerned. It started in France last week. You're talking about, I'll say, the French President is actually advocating this, he's one of the main promoters of this act, his support in France is below 20%. [[…]] This is the lowest support any French president has had in history, and you're saying that France supports it. France does not support this. You are saying that Italy supports this, in Italy there is a current government coalition, which I will say is anti-migrant, more than 60% support – do you think Italy will support this? Or would the people in Italy back it up at the referendum? Or in France or Germany or Belgium, where one of the coalition parties left yesterday? And Belgium will not support this because the Belgian government has neither the majority nor the government in Parliament. And these dominoes will fall one by one. So, hiding was meant to take something quietly, and then pressure would start – yeah, we committed ourselves, too, Slovenia was involved, we committed ourselves to this, to this, to this, to this, and then there would be various acts coming here where there will be talk, we committed ourselves, and the government would share millions of additional Slovenian taxpayers with NGOs that are mainly serving here. [[…]] There are very few sincere humanitarian purposes there. Still, thank you for that translation. I invite everyone who hears me today to read these 35 pages for themselves. This is not a topic that will be forgotten by today's session, I call on everyone, both those who believe me, as do those who believe in the Government or Mr Brglez or any of the representatives of the government coalition, read it yourself. Read all 35 pages and create an opinion. I promise a rich lunch for those who find in this document a reference to illegal migration and the separation of illegal and illegal migration and will show this to me. It wasn't in the English original. If you put this in a working translation into Slovenian, then it will quickly reveal itself. But in the English original, it's the opposite. I said the time for this debate is unfortunate. Europe has major problems, partly because of the breakdown of the legal order on migration in 2015, Europe is no longer dealing with enlargement, but is dealing with contractions. By 2008 – and Slovenia was probably the last to lead the European Union in the so-called golden age – was a mandatory item on the agenda of all European enlargement institutions, how to help countries wishing to meet the criteria in the European Union, and that we will be expanding, that Europe will be truly free and whole. Then the economic crisis came, this point disappeared, then migration came, migration was the main problem and then it came brexit and now it's brexit. Now at the meetings where you are going, Brussels, is a mandatory point of brexit, it is said how to manage the European Union's contraction. A country representing 20% of the Union, the first military force of this Union, which is the second economy of this Union, is leaving, and some are even satisfied with this. Those of you who have little knowledge of ancient history know that this has already happened in the territory where we live. I'm talking about the history of the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire. Together, it lasted a thousand 500 years, 500 years, 500 years, and then 500 years, the eastern part of the Roman Empire. But somewhere out there two thousand years ago, what's happening in Europe today began to happen. The empire has also spread to some civilizations that did not belong there. I have read a comparison somewhere between a standard of living in Rome or the Apennine Peninsula and the marginal — not in numbers, but in comparison with those figures that I previously cited for Europe and for Africa. And then the demographic pressure on the empire began. The Romans began to build walls, one went also across our territory, Claustra Iuliarum, and began to recruit foreigners into their legions, which were previously expressly reserved for Roman citizens. Then there was a conflict and a dispute between the eastern and western parts, even the military conflicts, and then the Roman legions, where foreigners dominated them, began to put emperors in the western part and the western Roman Empire collapsed. In the east, they were a little bit smarter, they lasted 500 years, until then, I'll say, the Islamists won the Byzantine. We're building walls in Europe now, too. The flood of the western part of the Roman Empire began when they withdrew from Britain. We are also talking about brexit now, we have a conflict between the Eastern and Western parts of the European Union, we are not talking about enlargement anymore, what we are talking about is very much forced by the pressure of these countries that would still like to go in, the very unstable situation is ahead of us, and all of us who are in this Chamber will live in a different Europe in the coming years, not in the kind that we entered in with the 2003 referendum or with the 2004 entry. And that in this situation you then launch other topics that further divide both the continent and the European Union as a political community is all regrettable indeed. The backdrop of this proposal is the bad conscience of some who have spread the rule of law, which has separated illegal and illegal migration in Europe, is the political interest of the socialists, for whom illegal migration or migration, whatever, is an instrument for achieving the ancient utopian objectives of the communist manifesto, and the third motive is profit. Profits from criminal groups, many of whom operate under the cover of NGOs who serve here richly. And that must be perfectly clear to us. The issue of managing migration is a matter of legal rules and a question of civilisation. Within equal civilizations or the same civilizations, similar migration civilizations are not a problem. Finally, we're in the Schengen area. We are members of the European Union, where we live in different nations, we have 24 official languages in the European Union and so on, but this works somehow. Put Pakistan in the European Union, and you will see how this works. Although this will not happen directly physically, but it can happen as it happened to the Roman Empire, Pakistan will come, and Pakistan will – and I apologize to them because it is only figurative. With this document, which is falsely called a global agreement – because it is not a global agreement if you do not have a United States here, if you do not have Australia, if you do not have half of the European countries, if you do not have Japan here, which by law prohibits people from coming to the country with Islamic backgrounds, if you do not have China and Russia, at least not with the heart, it is not a global agreement, it is a coalition of willing and blinded people. When it comes to the Slovenian government, I can't help but quote the Slovenian writer who wrote: Slovenians are such servants that they want to serve the master after he's gone, when the farm's already gone. Today is the time to get out of this tradition. I am very sorry that at least some of what has been read today by government parties has not already been said on the parent’s working body. Maybe we'd be one step further. Today we are discussing, but you are not allowing the vote on the conclusions – you are obviously afraid of voting. The procedure was upside down. First, there should be a debate and then a decision, which was the decision and now we have a debate. The decision was about a text that was not in accordance with Article 11 of the Slovenian Constitution, because the text was not in Slovenian, and not even all members of the Government speak English, so I really do not know what you were deciding. You've decided on the basis of, I don't know, newspaper articles, any calls from Berlin or Paris, and that's it. So much for our sovereignty or your sovereignty, of which you speak so much. It's about sovereignty. So you haven't given us any other option than to file a request for a consultation referendum. If you believe in your own words, if you believe that this can be explained in a positive way, what you accept here, you will gladly press the button to decide the people. It's about their future, not just yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much, proposer. We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. The first will be Mrs. Ludmila Novak. But get ready to be a magician. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u32	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting to all! On September 12th, we were able to read on the MMC portal on the Malmö conference, where he said the Dalai Lama, who was Nobel Prizewinner in 1989, quote: "Europe belongs to Europeans". He also said that refugees should return to their homeland and help rebuild them. It is Europe's moral duty to help refugees who are in real danger to their lives. “Take them, help them, educate them, but in the end they should contribute to the development of their own country.” I strongly agree with these words and also support the development assistance provided by the European Union and the Member States to all countries in need. True, the European Union, together with the Member States, is still the largest donor, but 0.7% of GDP is still far from being achieved in Slovenia. Why do many countries have concerns about this document? We all know that Austria rejected him. The explanation says that it is rejected because it does not solve the essential problems and goes too far; at the same time, it leaves important questions open, and Austria has concerns. She will not attend the conference and will not vote in the UN. They also say that they have their own laws, their own constitution, that they have international treaties for this. This is also what Slovenia has. The laws we have adopted in Parliament, the constitution adopted by a two-thirds majority, the international treaties we ratify, and even in the past period, we have already passed quite a few laws on migration. The question is also whether we really help when we say that all these migrants should come to us, and we open the door wide open for them. I don't think so; everyone in their natural environment, in their home country, lives best. Of course, some go elsewhere, but if this is happening massively, then the reasons for this need to be removed. Will we help them if they all move in with us? No, no, no. I have been a member for five years of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the European Union, Africa, the Caribbean, the Pacific. We had a meeting twice a year, once in the Presidency country of the European Union, for the second time in one of these African or other countries. In the meantime, we have adopted various resolutions at meetings in Brussels. What have these delegates from Africa, especially from Africa, highlighted many times? “We can barely raise money to scholarship the most promising young people, send them to Europe for education, and then you take them away from us and we are back at the bottom, we have no educated staff, so we cannot make any progress.” So we're also egotistical when we're trying to keep an educated cadre to ourselves. I also experienced some cases of such illiteracy while waiting for us to get tickets to the plane, and there was a person at the window who didn't even know how to read. If we hadn't taken the cards into the hands of Members and distributed them ourselves, then the plane would have been three hours late, and that was only one hour and a half late. Or the case where someone gave me back more money than I paid him for something. How, then, can these countries make progress if those who have this opportunity, who have some money that is educated, go away and remain the poorest?Oh, my God! All the forces of the developed world should focus on having this development aid in the right hands to help resolve conflicts, not to encourage them, not to sell weapons there, have other interests; this is the only way to reduce migration and to make it easier for us to manage this situation in Europe. If we spend €573 per migrant per month in Slovenia plus the costs for everything else that comes, and this goes beyond €500, as I read, according to the Court of Auditors, then let me remind you that our missionary Pedro Opeka for €4,000 builds a one-family house, for people to work, organizes them, which is what the country should do. With this money that we give for one migrant for a few months, we could build a whole house there, for more migrants to a settlement, a school, a hospital and so on. And we Slovenians are solidarity with how many various charitable actions are taking place and also various actions for various missionaries, where money is allocated to Slovenian missionaries who actually save lives, educate, spread not only faith, but mainly materially help and educate these poor people. Of course, fear is growing in Europe. On such mass arrivals, I also understand that patient people are becoming increasingly dissatisfied and that customers who express their dissatisfaction clearly and loudly are being strengthened. Some countries have opened the door wide and now I hear that it is in these countries that teachers do not want to be more teachers. I've heard that in Sweden, someone who wants to be a teacher gets another salary to be a teacher in the first place. In Austria there are classes, for example in larger cities in Vienna, where a German - speaking student or some more, and people don’t even want to send their children there anymore. Europe certainly needs self-reflection, self-resuscitation. I am still convinced that we are stronger, better, stronger than the European Union. Of course, we must put an end to certain things and not open our democratic doors wide enough to lose and lose ourselves. I want to live in Slovenia, where Slovenian language is at home, Slovenian culture, our civilisation standards, the same applies to Europe. And I will repeat for the Dalai Lama: "Europe belongs to Europeans, refugees need help, development assistance needs to be given because we live in better living conditions." I support all of this. To move from one continent to another, we need to find other solutions. And this agreement does not bring these solutions, but it brings many doubts and fears, so there is no way I can support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrei Reich. Get Jani Ivanush ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u34	Your Honors are here! The Declaration on Safe and Regulated Migration is a legally non-binding document that perceives the problems and challenges of migration. The document itself represents a historic attempt by the global community to regulate legal migration. Nevertheless, we are now in the national assembly of witnesses to certain deceptions and distortions of facts. Some are maliciously linking the illegal migration we are witnessing with the adoption of this declaration. Allow me to point out some of the articles in this declaration, which directly and totally contradict it. One of the 23 goals is to maintain national sovereignty. He states explicitly: “States may, in accordance with their sovereign legal order and subject to international law, distinguish between the status of a lawful and illegal migrant.” It also discusses the reasons for eliminating migration. This is also very important for Slovenia. He states: “The aim of this agreement is to mitigate the negative factors and structural causes that prevent people from ensuring and maintaining sustainable survival in their countries of origin, thus forcing them to seek a better future elsewhere.” We know that the European Union is one of the major donors in the region. We know that the conditions that today’s migrants come from or from which this flow comes are calming down to calm the situation in Libya. In 2009 a strong Slovenian economic delegation visited Libya, hoping for a billion jobs. And we know that there is a time of peace, a time of post-war reconstruction, which is certainly also an opportunity for Slovenian companies to work there to create and also help in some way to solve problems where they arise. I would also like to point out Article 11, which speaks, you will not believe, about managing and protecting borders. The article says: “We commit ourselves to managing national borders in a coordinated manner, promoting bilateral and regional cooperation, ensuring the security of countries, communities and migrants, enabling the safe and legal cross-border movement of people and preventing illegal migration.” Allow me to conclude my thoughts by repeating the points that seem particularly important to me. This is a non-binding document, a declaration that seeks to establish regular migration and reduce illegal migration with all its harmful consequences. It explicitly exposes irregular migration as a negative and harmful phenomenon, preserves the full sovereignty of countries in border management and management, and also eliminates the economic causes of migration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Vice-President, and I would also welcome the ministers, but unfortunately they're not, they're obviously not interested. All the other men present! For the introduction, I would like to say that I have decided to apply for a Member for three reasons. Every four years our poor country Slovenia is smaller and shorter, territorial. The second reason was that I would oppose the silent Islamisation of Europe, which is already happening. Obviously, Europe will be conquered without the sword, as we said in the past. The third reason is because I come from Ormož, where development is very bad or is not consistent with the rest of Slovenia. These are the three main reasons why I decided to run. Of course, I will speak first as a Slovenian and later as a member of the Slovenian National Party. I have a feeling that in our country it is helping foreigners rather than our domestics or citizens and citizens; whether it is work, housing, health care and so on; and we obviously have enough for foreigners. How many times have we heard how many people in Slovenia live below the poverty threshold, about 200,000 and this number is still growing. In October, we were as the Parliamentary Delegation of Slovenia to Vienna, where migration was discussed. Mr German led this parliamentary delegation and there we have heard from the representative of the Italian parliamentary delegation that they predict that 200 million people will be raised from Africa within 15-20 years and that this will migrate towards Europe and beyond. I'm afraid they won't flood us, they'll just eat us. If, for example, we moved to an area in Syria where there was a war, where there was still war, do you think that we Europeans would receive help and some supplies? I'm sure it's far from that. Anything else would have come, but the care and the help. But if we hear these numbers, what's going to happen in migration, let me give you an example, five numbers, from one to four are white, and the fifth is now, let's say, a man who has a possible dark coat. Twenty, thirty years from now, there will be four black men, and the fifth will be white. That's how it's gonna go crazy. Today I have even heard that Poland renounces the declaration. The neighbouring countries around us are everything. Croatia will go down, it will not sign, Slovenia will be one small oasis in the midst of neighbouring countries. And what does an oasis mean? Oasis means water, an island that will give life. We'll stay lonely. And what can we expect? The fact that these migrants will be most pleased with our space. The Marrakesh Declaration is a matter of course, it is a matter of concealing the document, as we have heard so many times today. It is essentially the legalisation of illegal migration. And that's the fear that appears and you're telling us because we're warning you about it. Whoever's going to Morocco to sign this by the government would be better off not to. It will be better that those few tens of thousands of euros, as far as it costs, are destined to operate on some little boy who collects plastic stoppers to survive. This is one great regret for our Slovenian people. With regard to yesterday's questions that we had, even though you're going to say that I was moving away from the darkness, we saw yesterday what the debate looked like. I'm among the new guys. All the questions that have been addressed for a broader debate have been greatly undermined or have not been agreed upon in order to have a debate, because these are issues that concern all of us, not just one side of this House. Let's say we already have a nuclear power plant today, how the Croats fucked us again. It's not the first time it's not the last time. And these are questions that concern all of you, not just us. I'm so sorry you're acting like a Fiakar horse. You're just watching what comes through what you're suggesting. You'll say again that I'm out of my way, but no, we're having a bit of a growing problem at the farm court. EUR 700 000 was envisaged for a measure to clean up this fruit-growing work or to clean up the orchards. Unfortunately, we were over-voted, and the coalition voted us over. When it comes to 700,000 euros for our growers, there is no money. Why am I saying this? By 1 November of this year, the Immigration Office or whatever it is called has spent € 4.6 million. And that goes on until the new year. Besides, I don't know how much they're gonna spend. We got money for that kind of thing, no problem. Here, Mr Pavšič insisted that these were political points. I assume that these are not political points, the election is not, the elections will be in four years, maybe he knows more, maybe the elections will be quick until you break up on the right. I would say that in the Slovenian National Party we have a programme for refugees, but because we are in opposition, unfortunately we cannot reveal it to you. But I will say in the end, the Serbian proverb says, "What a roasting, and such a salvation." Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u37	Thank you, Member. The next word is Mr Ferenc Horváth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, well-respected colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to point out that I am an absolute defender of human rights. I think people need help. And if there's any place to help, I'm among the first, if anyone needs help. However, I am somehow afraid that today this debate – as well as in recent times in various media from different countries – has been quite black and white. It is my personal view that I do not know or fear that this document will not solve the global issue of migration or the situation of people living in the greatest poverty. And I think we really have to admit that the situation that now predominates mainly in the African continent is primarily the fault of developing the world. I think that more responsibility should be given to the question of how to give people a better and better life there. As long as they live in poverty, we cannot avoid them coming into a more developed world. We don't have to go to Africa if we just look at the case of Slovenia, why are those parts of Slovenia that are less developed. Just because young people leave with their stomachs for bread, they seek a better life, a better survival. Last time I saw on TV was a TV show about migrants who had been prepared in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One migrant said that he had crossed the border ten times before, and was returned to Bosnia and Herzegovina every time. I don't know if it's human to do what you do with these people. I am not against migrants, members of other races and religions coming to Europe, even in Slovenia; but I am sure that the way this is done or made possible is not the right way. I'm afraid this document will not solve this issue. I'm kind of worried that if we look at the neighbouring countries around us, in fact, they've all somehow given up their support for this document. I think that Slovenia, regardless of the current political affiliation or the colour of the government of one or another country, should coordinate on such important border issues concerning the region as a whole, the whole of Eastern or Central Europe several times. We are the ones who should come together on all these issues. Because if we together represent certain positions within the European Union, then I think our voice will be better heard that we will be able to make our wishes better. And I am almost certain that the countries that joined the Multi-urban Four, or Visegrad Group, have taken the right path. And I think that Slovenia should also think in this direction in order to get close to these countries. Maybe that's it for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Now I give the floor to Jerzi Korca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u40	President, thank you very much for your word. Today, there have been many lies and many deceptions, so it may be appropriate that we, the advocates of some of the facts in this document, constantly begin to repeat the true truth that is in charge of the document. I agree with one of the predecessors – and congratulate him for 53 minutes of speech, which is not a small one – in that we do not underestimate our citizens and citizens. I believe that the younger generation, which is practically a different language, has already read this document in the original. But to those who are not yet, I recommend that, because it is only in this way that each of us, every citizen and citizen, can ensure that he learns the truth that is written in the document; and not fall for the deception of one or the other party, of which we are already speaking. In this place, however, I might say what worries me most in conversation, in public performances, in media deception; and this is some false and populist rhetoric, the constant excitement of fear in people, the search for the external culprit for our own problems in our country, for the hatred of possibly different thinkers, those who are other skin colors, other hair colors, to the daily produced lies that we can read and hear, to reverse the meaning of legal patriotism, by introducing some of the emotional impulses that you want to excite in people. And constantly repeating the same things over and over again with a view to avoiding negativeism and hatred for others. All I've listed is things that fall within a completely different context of our history. I have not personally experienced these horrors. Some are alive, and at least once a year, we always remember at certain celebrations — never again. And these are the words that we would like to remember through such declarations as we are dealing with and having discourses; that what we are doing, what we are passing to our people through the media, through our discussions, also affects that we must always remain committed to not having one thing repeat in our history. And that history is also a teacher of this, not just those civilizational processes that the predecessor was talking about. Slovenia or my country has not been established or liberated in some fear, some hatred for our people or others. I believe we have to do this every day too. It is a fact, however, that I agree with this, on the one hand and on the other, that the integration of these people is an appropriate attitude towards these people, which can mean that certain things will not happen; and this is also respect for the rule of law, respect for our Constitution. This is the task of all the authorities in our country, as well as the policies, to ensure that the relevant legislation and appropriate processes are in place so that these people who will come will be faced with it. We're all migrants in here. We're all migrants in here, some also refugees. If you do not believe me, I recommend that you consult with Mr Tin Mamić, who studies the surnames, and you may find for most of your surnames that they are of migrant origin and that they do not originate from the neighbouring country because there was war and they fled to Slovenia; but they come from everywhere. And that's the real state. Migration has always been, and migration will always be, as we will face it, and this is our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the following word. However, Mr Jani Möderndorfer should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course we're all migrants. I'm a living example, I'm a German, I'm still one of those pure-blooded Slovenians, Mrs. Korča, thank you for that point. This does not mean that Slovenia opens the door to everyone, and only Slovenia. This means, as my predecessor has indicated, that we are facing this challenge; and this is an important global challenge, with a human note. So to deal with a three-level reality: the country of origin, the country of transit and the target country. It is not true what the opposite side wants to show that we ugly leftists are the ones who will defamate Slovenia by allowing someone to come, occupy our territory and drive us out of here. Of course not. We want and want only to make order and protect the weakest, especially in the countries of origin, and – this document weighs – allow them safe transit if it comes to it. As my predecessor has already mentioned, this will happen; not only because of economic, political, but mainly because of environmental or climate change. It is therefore important that we maintain a multilateral agreement at a global level under the auspices of the United Nations, so that all these three stakeholders — namely, origin, transit and destination — agree on how we can solve the situation in a human way. Of course, the 2015 experience teaches us that everything that has been said in the last three years, what will happen to Slovenia – that this has not happened. So Slovenia has acted responsibly and has been repeatedly commended in the international community for its humanity, that we have accepted 500 thousand people over Slovenia, whatever the case, and approached them with a human face. As already mentioned today – of these 500,000 we now have 491 refugees who have actually received protection in the Republic of Slovenia. So we're talking about one small village stadium, if I may say so, compared to the other countries quoted by our colleagues on the other hand, particularly Austria, Italy would point out here – these are negligible numbers. I don't understand these ambiguities. In fact, in one way they magnify the actions of some neighbouring countries, on the other hand, they warn — and passionately — of the fear that these refugees will flood Slovenia, while it would be logical to conclude that if they build 50-meter walls, we are safe from all of this. But don't take this seriously, what I just said. The experience of World War I teaches us, especially Primorce, when they were accepted in Prekmurje, Postojna, in the north, in Austria, that coming to home places was difficult. Believe me, Slovenians to Slovenians on their return from refugee in time after World War I – they were reading the same things as we read to these migrants today. Whatever they are; whether they are economic or political. I'm wondering about an alternative. If we do not participate in this multilateral way of negotiating – what else do we have? If we are not part of what preserves us as part of Europe and, above all, of the community that has succeeded since the end of World War II to preserve peace and, above all, the humane note, then we have missed the time of generation to prevent the worst that has happened in the previous century in the 20th, 30th, 40th years. Because rhetoric is very similar. But the goal at the time was different and the target groups were different. Of course, the creation act itself is the only document that addresses this issue in a global sense. There's no alternative. We can deal directly with Hungary, we can deal directly with Austria if we are not part of this. However, we will not be able to ask Member States of origin or countries that are actually the reason for this, or their situation of migrants, to have a document and to have a dialogue with them. But I'll get it over with. What is crucial in the global world and in the geopolitical field is that Europe is extremely vulnerable because of non-homogeneousness. We have examples of some of the major countries that, in fact, see the European community's impoverishedness as a big opportunity with a “step-by-step” approach. If Europeans do not know how to maintain this unity in addressing global challenges, then we will soon be victims of such abuses and, above all, inhuman treatment. If we don't stay united, we won't have to wait long. Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the following word and should be prepared for Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Today we are all witnesses in this hall, which is full of one hatred, one agony, which is, of course, the saddest, and because, in fact, there is no very special reason, except to come into power with this kind of rhetoric. For that fear that someone sings all the time, and constantly imposes on the entire Slovenian nation, and exploits all the opportunities that he has in the National Assembly to convince that something bad is very wrong in this loving country, in fact he has only one goal — power, power, power. When you try to put it on a common denominator, you find that it only comes one way — by lying, lying, and lying again. As many times as possible! The more you lie, the sooner you have more chance of coming to power; and so everywhere in Europe, where we see that these right-wing or far-right structures come to either partial authority or full authority, using the exact same method. I see that the SDS has decided on the exact same rhetoric, the same way, if not now, maybe tomorrow or tomorrow, we will succeed. In history, we have been able to look at comparisons of where and when all of this has happened. I have told the two committees on several occasions that, in fact, all of this reminds me of Goebbels' way of essentially using this fine, beautiful tool that man can have, although it is just a spoken word to use the media to convince people that something serious is happening, and then they use all the possible formulas and ways to get this combination to work, so that people can grasp it, it is called to believe these stories. This is the easiest thing to do when we start mathematically representing people in numbers and in money some things that people can relate to. Who today likes politics in Slovenia? Nobody! Nobody. Especially because they are convinced that nothing is actually done there, that it is simply a delusion and that it is only a matter of authority. But when you tell them and you give them a comparison with the poverty and suffering of a simple man and you try to evaluate it and put it in some number and make a comparison with what you're trying to say is wrong, you have a score on the table. Everyone would say, simple people, we would rather give for one family that is without a house, that much and that much money than give for one migrant as much and as much money as they like mathematically to represent this comparison. But they don't tell a few facts from the very beginning. In fact, you know, the average Slovenian does not distinguish between words such as declaration, resolution, agreements, conventions, bilateral agreements, for which it is more or less all one and the same. And that's exactly what SDS does. Today, he wants to present that, in fact, this global agreement is something that the National Assembly should at least ratify for the first time in the National Assembly, before – if only, if it happened by chance, that this global agreement might indeed be ratified in the National Assembly – and the referendum would be called or requested, the least consultative. What they're threatening to do between the lines all the time. This is, of course, a key problem of misunderstanding and abuse. Today we are speaking in truth about this global agreement and the comparison, because today a number of lies have been said, repeatedly repeated not only by the Prince of Darkness, but also by Mr Grims, if there is no Slovenian translation – there is no Slovenian translation! At the time, in 2005, we adopted the UN declaration on human cloning – no Slovenian translation! This declaration has been adopted. UN Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights, 2005 – No Slovenian translation and also accepted by Slovenia. In 2007 the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples – no Slovenian translation and we never came to the National Assembly to learn anything about this declaration. In 2006 the Euro-African Declaration on Migration and Development – no Slovenian translation. And we didn't come to the National Assembly, and we didn't know anything. Who was in power then? Did I miss anything? Whether we have to Google again or whether the prince of darkness was at that time the boss who was today explaining what must be translated. I find this extremely underestimating and repudiating act to come and without shame in the National Assembly and lecture us and hold the Levites as to how something must be translated, something official. Then he says to himself, which is very important: “We have a work translation today, but this is not an official translation, this is more of a work aid.” Tell me if the translator specifically makes a translation for the work translation, especially a translation for some official translation. Do some different translators do this, or how? Yeah, it's true, yeah, translations are important! Let us see how they are translated seriously taken by Mr. Janez Janša. As President, Janez Janša has adopted a bilateral agreement, a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which must, clearly, be considered and translated, as he correctly notes. And what happened? It was a translation, but he signed a translation that later changed a lot of things. The Croats presented their translation, and the Slovenes their own, and the caver was in a house known to all, and I am not even going to explain it. But John Janša signed it. The last in the Republic of Slovenia is the one who has even the right to speak, when a matter will be translated, and in what way, as long as I see this victory that he has signed and which will cause a lot of taxpayers to have a headache, not because of these things that we are dealing with today! The next thing that still seems important to me is this: I understand Janez Janša, what drives him, where the origin of this hatred, which he cultivates and sows and every time he has five minutes, represents the Slovenian public in the National Assembly. It is clear to me that it is some personal offense, some conversion, some transformation in the head that he has experienced from one time to another, and he has experienced some enlightenment. Let's just say that's it, even though he'll be able to explain for himself that there are other reasons. But I don't understand where this elixir is, or where this serum of hatred, which was created in all the other Members, is this immense hatred of humans, of man. I'll just never understand it. And it's from the Christians! What was interesting today was Mr Tonin's rhetoric, which changed rhetoric in view of the fact that the pope made it clear and said what concern we must have with people and how right it is to help people in distress, that today he was talking about water, about food – I mean, he changed his rhetoric and then somehow slowly led to the question even if it was an optional document, why then we are taking something if it was optional. I'm sorry, but even in high school, you'd understand. To be told by the Member, why such declarations are made or why such global agreements are adopted, things are clear. A lie that has been repeated several times today and will probably continue until we have time – that is at least 4 hours and 13 minutes or less, because I will not talk about it – says that this global agreement speaks about what equals everything and actually overruns our legislation or our legal order. On page 4 it reads very clearly – I do not read because of you, I read because of the Slovenian public, because they need to understand because you are selling them lies. “National sovereignty. By means of a global agreement, we reaffirm the sovereign right of individual countries to formulate their national migration policy in accordance with international law” – once again we have heard, their national migration policy – "and manage migration within their respective competences. States may, in accordance with their sovereign legal order”—in accordance with their sovereign legal order, Mr Grims—and, subject to international law, distinguish between the status of a lawful and irregular migrant.” So don't keep this constant, constant, notorious lie you're telling here in the National Assembly! And this continues and you enjoy, in the end I will experience that this is one of your personal perceptions, that you have some inner emotions with which you need them for your own satisfaction. Or how? In fact, it is rude to lie, especially if you are a representative of the people. Of course, today the applicant even spoke about the absence of a basis for decision-making. Mr Grimes, Mr. Prince of Darkness and everyone else, indeed, there is no basis, because I don't even know what we're deciding here.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u45	Mr. Möderndorfer [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u46	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u47	Excuse me, you have previously requested in your procedural proposal that no one be spoken of defiantly, and I ask that what you have asked of others be taken into account and that you also apologize to those who have been so distastefully named. If you don't, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u48	Mr. Tanko, stop my watch first.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u49	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u50	First stop my watch because you're taking my time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u51	Excuse me, excuse me! I've said my thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u52	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u53	That's exactly what you asked. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u54	But, Mr. Tanko, then we [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u55	And I want you to do it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u56	No, no, no, no, Vice President! Then explain to me what's disgraceful here, that we'll know about another time when we're somebody. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u57	You must know this because you asked for it, but I can tell you: Prince of Darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u58	That's disgusting?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u59	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u60	Really? Who was I talking to?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u61	You have a fellow MP. If you want, name it, if you don't want to, let it go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u62	I didn't, I didn't!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u63	It's a disgraceful insult. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u64	I don't know who you mean.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u65	Mr. Möderndorfer, I told you – didn't I?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u66	Well, let's move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u67	I suggest you apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u68	Let's move on, and we'll explain what's really disgusting. Today we are [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u69	Mr. Möderndorfer, I give you a reminder!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much, but I'm expecting another.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u71	You'll get it right away. I'm giving you another warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u72	One more. So, what now?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u73	And now I'm going to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u74	You won't take my word!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u75	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, allow me to finish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u76	Yeah, I'll finish. Today we've heard [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u77	Sir, I took your word. If you disturb the session, I'll have you removed from the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u78	That's what you want to experience. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u79	Yeah. I ask the services of the National Assembly to remove Mr Möderndorfer from the sitting. I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 2.07 p.m. and resumed at 14.12.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u80	Your Honor! I find that the measure has not yet been implemented, so I extend the interruption by 5 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 2.12 p.m. and resumed at 2.17 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u81	Your Honor! I also note that in this additional time Member Jani Möderndorfer has not been removed from the plenary session of the National Assembly, so I am adjourning the meeting for half an hour. During this time, we will hold a meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups. This is also in agreement with the President of the National Assembly. The meeting has been suspended; there can now be no procedural proposal. We'll continue at 2.48 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.18 p.m. and resumed at 14.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u82	Your Honor! I'm informing you that we're adjourning the meeting for another half hour. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 2.50 p.m. and resumed at 15.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u83	Dear Members, honourable Members! I'm informing you that the session has been suspended until 4:00 p.m. and we'll proceed at that time. (The sitting was suspended at 3.20 p.m. and resumed at 16. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I give my word to Mr. Primoz Sitter. Get ready, Mr. Zvonko Blackach. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, for the introduction. Today we are operating on the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. A nice school case happened a few minutes ago. Just as an additional fact, or in support of everything I will say in the future, that the party that convened this meeting today does not choose the means. I welcome the decision that the measure taken to remove a fellow Member from the Chamber has not been implemented. Everyone who's a parent will know a good trick about parenting. When something happens to a child when he falls down and hurts his knee, you give him one toy to focus not on his knee, but on the toy. And this is such a beautiful maneuver that the political right in Slovenia has been gripping the people for decades now, that they have a toy, but they are not dealing with the real problem. For 28 years we have a country of our own, 28 years there are parties who today form a political right, the main players, 28 years old. And a very nice number, 280 thousand are still people living below the poverty line. Here we have the desperate stories of Slovenian nicknames. Some live from 400 euros a month, so the average earnings of a Slovenian criminal worker. We deal with 491 people who have asylum in Slovenia. Today's debate is a smoke screen to shift attention from the real wounds to that toy; from those treatments of citizens and citizens, residents and residents of Slovenia who deserve adult treatment of serious problems to that – have this car and you will forget. There's one thing to understand. Slovenians now make a very quick contribution to the role of the victim – Oh, refugees are coming, migrants are coming, it will change the demographics of the whole country, they will come and we will be the victims. And we're always the victims. But are we really victims in this game?Oh, my God! Are we proud members of the NATO Federation who send their armies there and give birth to these problems, which are why these people are then looking for refuge elsewhere, with us. Are we the ones who want to produce this, the ones who want to participate in this breeding of hatred around the world? At this point, we are the seed we sow, we throw it around the world, and then we complain because — if I use the rhetoric of that side — weed comes to our side. Let me do it again. In the introduction, a colleague suggested some very interesting statistics. Just so that we can restore knowledge that we know with what numbers we are actually operating on, how big is this problem of our visa of the fact that we have 280 000 people in Slovenia who live below the poverty threshold, who are trying to raise the minimum wage; and on the right hand side, we get the opposition opinion that it is wrong to take some other measures that will further deepen the appetite. 5 000 616 applicants, of which 491 have asylum in Slovenia. 0.02% of the total population, and in Slovenia we had another nice statistical fact – 30 references to this topic. How many meetings we've had on the subject of abolishing the Prioritate, and we've talked about it all in our pre-election campaigns. How much is he doing? How many hours? How many suspensions? How many abuses of the rules for latrines? So much for patriotism. The right hand only leans on the lies about the people who come to us, about this document that we have today on the table; although there is nothing so shocking in the document, nor will it have to change the Constitution or anything, the lie itself and the deception. For example, the document contains commitments to share responsibility, special care for children, a commitment to reduce the reasons why people run away from their homes in the first place. Let me remind you once again who the lead player is in this game. The fight against human trafficking, the fight against smugglers, enhanced integration and so on. No calls will come and they will have rights and no duties themselves, they will get some status – I hope to use this rhetoric – übermenscha, from which we will all bow and be unaware of what; but they will walk around and take what they are doing. Where does it say that? Where's the fact? Where are the numbers? And where is the clear articulation of what you say to colleagues and colleagues from the political right? But I will not point my finger at you alone; I will point my finger at the Government, who, sadly, in this race against foreigners took one part of the blame, if not another, with the appointment of Damir Črnčec as Secretary of State. Here we are very critical, and we fear that this is a continuation of some bad practice of dealing with this issue, the migration issue, or “solution”, which has already begun with the setting up of this completely lame and unnecessary wire, which serves nothing, except that it is each so much of a deer at our border. We expect the government to oppose this hatred, not to kneel either under this rhetoric or under the abuse of the position or media pressure coming from the political right. And to understand that Slovenia is not threatened by, God help, 491 people, but is threatened by social security, it is threatened by development. We don't have a problem thinking about how we're going to spend a billion and 200 dollars on Nate's weapons. We need to think, we need to channel blood into a healthy social dialogue when we need to raise the minimum wage on the poor 700 euros. That's why I once again appeal to the government that it doesn't fall into the trap of deceiving itself to operate on facts and operate on a staff that can, hopefully, solve these things. And before I finish, there's only one more answer to a presentation of the position that my colleague Tonin had when he was talking about foreigners coming into our home, that they should act like ours. I wonder if he took inspiration in the Roman Catholic Church, which often went to foreign homes, to foreign lands and promoted its culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. But get ready for Mr. Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u87	Thank you. Nice greetings to all present! Far from going to this point of discussion, which was mentioned earlier, which speaks of some being hostile to migration. I think there are other questions. Those who listened to the opening presentation and then an additional presentation by the proposer, you could see that these are issues that concern not only Slovenia, but concern Europe and the whole world. And that it is a question of whether the paths that are supposed to lead to a solution are right or wrong. And that's where we're different. You believe that the path taken by this so-called global agreement is the right one and that it will solve the problem; we believe it will not. And we're not lonely at that. Like America, Australia, many European countries, we see that every day a new European country wakes up, it has been estimated that this is not the right path to take in the last period. If I simplify, is it the right way to want, if I paraphrase, to create Africa in Europe; is it the right way to create Europe in Africa? It is probably the right path for people living in Africa and in those areas where they have lower income to help improve, but not to send signals and encourage further migration through such receptions as this global agreement. Because that's not the solution. That's not a solution. And if not for the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian National Party to request these meetings and convene these meetings, the public would not know much about this. It is only today that we have received an informal translation of this document, so far no one from the government has considered it important to inform the Slovenian public about this and the document will be decided by the UN General Assembly within a month. That's very irresponsible. It also points to some government irresponsibility. Let's say last Monday we had a meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government: there was no one by the Government at this meeting. No one, total boycott. Today the government's representatives only participated in the first part. Now there is a representative of the Government, or I suppose a representative of the Foreign Ministry. That's irresponsible. This is irresponsible and also shows some signal to people that the government is unaware of the importance of this pact, which brings nothing good and politically binding. This was an interesting formal justification when it came to how this pact was good, how it would solve the problems, while at the same time affirming the Foreign Minister, formerly the Prime Minister of the Government, who had participated in the Marrakesh Declaration and now supports this global agreement, how and so nothing is binding. If it's okay, then we should be satisfied that it's binding. Otherwise, I do not understand how he will explain to his colleagues in Croatia this position that things are binding once and for the second time, when it comes to other documents, they are not binding. I am talking about the comparison with the arbitration agreement, but this is its problem and the problem of the illegality of Slovenian foreign policy. The signal that those who support this global agreement signal more migration rather than reverse the signal. That a favourable environment must be created where these people live; and that policies of different countries must also contribute materially to the proper management of these environments. Last time we talked about illegal migration. About illegal migration. And we have listened to how we manage this problem in Slovenia. And we have heard from the Minister of the Interior that the number of these migrations has already increased fourfold in relation to last year and that out of eight thousand, four thousand have been returned. Where are the others? Where are the others? They didn't ask for asylum. If we consider those who apply for asylum and at the time of their application, they know that they are not entitled to it, they could list those who are entitled to this instrument. Everyone else has crossed the border, west by now. But someday this road will stop. Not just here, but some other country. And if this is illegal migration, then this migration must be stopped. If someone comes into your house, someone's breaking into your house. Will you call the police to remove him, or will you give him dinner and a bed? It's an illegal border crossing. It's exactly the same situation. There shouldn't be any crossings, there shouldn't be. And there are, just this year, 8 grand. And this global agreement does not solve this problem and does not solve it at any point. This raises the question why support for something, not only in Slovenia but also in the international public, sends the wrong signals. To conclude today, it would be very good to hear from the public who, on 10 December, will applaud this global agreement on safe, orderly and legal migration on behalf of Slovenia. If it is not the President of the Government, if it is not the Foreign Minister, if it is an official, then it is a clear signal of your duality and tells all about how the Slovenian government looks at these issues – bad, negative and harmful for our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Predrag Bakovic has the floor. Get Mr. Gregor Perič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u89	Dear President, dear colleagues, a lovely greeting on my behalf as well! I must say that we have already discussed this subject on several committees, so we are all repeating ourselves a little together, but there are no mistakes once again if I stress certain things, namely the Marrakesh Declaration first. The Marrakesh Declaration mentions two different documents produced under two completely different processes. One is the Marrakesh Declaration, which is exclusively a political declaration and does not have the nature of a legally binding document. As a second declaration, it was adopted at the conclusion of the Conference of the Rabat Process and is not signed. Slovenia has acceded to this declaration because it is in line with the conclusions adopted by the European Migration Councils and the fundamental points of view concerning all aspects relating to migration. These include: the development benefits of migration and addressing the causes of irregular migration, legal migration and mobility, protection and asylum, the prevention of irregular migration, smuggling and human trafficking, and, special attention, return, readmission and reintegration. The second document, however, is a global agreement for safe, orderly and legal migration, which is an important step in finding an approach to addressing the global challenge of migration within the framework of the United Nations. The essence of the global agreement is 23 political objectives that aim to contribute to better addressing the challenges of migration at local, national, regional and global level. In doing so, the global agreement does not create any legal obligations, not at the level of international law or at the level of national law. It is a political declaration, as has already been said, based on existing international law and on the values of national sovereignty, the sharing of responsibility, non-discrimination and respect for human rights; it stresses the importance of cooperation on the broadest aspects of migration, their benefits and risks at all stages. At the same time, it must be reiterated that the global agreement is not an international treaty. If this is an international treaty, it is clear what is the procedure at UN level and then also in our country of the Republic of Slovenia. Its validity would require a signature by a certain number of UN members, and instead the text of the December declaration would be confirmed by signature and not just by acclamation, i.e. by some kind of applause or express approval. In this case, in the case of a contract, the government should prepare and carry out a ratification procedure which is not necessary in this case. Perhaps the answer to why this agreement is not translated into Slovenian. It is precisely because it is not an international treaty and the text has not yet been translated into Slovenian, which is mandatory when it accedes to the signing of international treaties. Resolutions and other UN documents are never translated into everything, but only into six world official languages, Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish. That is why there is no official document, not to hide it from the eyes of the Slovenian public. All other declarations adopted by the General Assembly with the support of Slovenia were also not translated into Slovenian. Many of these resolutions and declarations were also adopted between 2004 and 2008, when the government was led by Janez Janša; even then these declarations were not translated into Slovenian. If you'd like, I'll deliver a list. Since 2000, there have been at least 35 and none have been translated. Migration in itself can be problematic and also a challenge for the country. But if we further question these issues or popularize them, they can become extremely dangerous. They are a European or a global problem, and this is how they are solved. However, it fears this declaration and is required to distance Slovenia from it. And if we do not take part in the aclamation and we will be shielded from the Marrakesh declaration, as the opposition requires, we will be left alone with the rare countries. Anyone who thinks that there will be no migrants if we reject this declaration or do not accept the recommendation or accept the recommendation is either terribly mistaken or deliberately misleading. Personally, I think this is more about the latter, and therefore it is a fact that migrants, whether we accept it or not, will still come, whether we cooperate or not. We cannot close the airtight border and have no direct impact on who is knocking on our door. But there will be one major difference. If we stay away from the agreement, we will be left alone or in an infamous and dark society of two more, perhaps three countries, with all the problems that migration brings. Even those rare countries that do not agree with us will not help us when migrants arrive. So suppose we reject the declaration and the global agreement and adopt the recommendations we are talking about today. You don't think there'll be any migrants then? Of course they will. And what are we gonna do? We're gonna wave recommendations at the border and then they're gonna turn around? They won't turn around. You imagine that the year 2015 will happen again. Then what do we have left? Maybe we can set up fences, minefields, machine guns, I don't know. In this light, all the hypocrisy of humanity or of a man who feels compassion and grieves and, at the same time, closes his borders and prepares barricades. But we can make a different decision, and if we make a different decision, we will remain part of the solution and not part of the problem. It is important to stress that Slovenia has received the following European funds under the Solidarity and Migration Flows Programme in the period 2007-2013, namely the External Borders Fund for the period 2007-2013, the €41 million, the European Return Fund for the period 2008-2013, the €3 million, the European Fund for the Integration of third-country nationals for the period 2007-2013 – 7 million, the European Refugee Fund for the period 2008-2013 – 3.5 million. A total of 55 million. In the current financial perspective 2014-2020, the Republic of Slovenia is entitled to funds in the area of internal affairs, namely the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund of 14 million and the Internal Security Fund of 41 million. This raises an immediate question as to whether we will be entitled to these funds if we are not part of the European Union that advocates regulated migration and cooperates with the other Member States. Certainly not, I believe, and then we will have to deal with migration on our own and also with the costs that will arise. Deception or speaking to the opposition, the cost of one migrant in Slovenia, has only a populist purpose, as it always forgets how much money Slovenia receives from the European Union to solve these problems. Here, by the opposition, it is pointed out that the European Union and the UN have a fig in their pocket and that the purpose of the global agreement and the Marrakesh declaration is merely some legalisation of migration that equates legal, illegal migration, the abolition of borders, migration as something positive and promotes them. If that were the case, then the European Union would not be preparing a proposal for a directive on common standards and procedures in the Member States in order to return illegally staying third-country nationals. The Directive advocates the effective return of illegally staying third-country nationals and the reduction of the duration of return procedures, also in order to ensure a better link between asylum procedures and to increase the effectiveness of the application of measures to prevent escape. Moreover, the directive simplifies, restricts and also restricts certain remedies in return procedures; however, of course, the opposition will not highlight this. In addition to promoting and promoting migration and legalisation, the Commission's proposal for a new multiannual financial framework, which pays particular attention to new challenges mainly in the area of migration and internal and external security, where funds are increasing markedly. At the same time, it is proposed to establish a mechanism to protect the budget of the European Union in cases of risks arising from the shortcomings of the rule of law system in the Member States. Measures in the cases of those risks may, inter alia, concern, also the freezing of payments or obligations under the budget of the European Union for the Member States. This means that if we do not respect the rule of law or maybe isolate ourselves, as Hungary does, perhaps Slovakia or anyone else, we will be with the resources allocated to individual countries by the European Union. I'm gonna say it one more time. We've got two options. We are part of the solution and, together with the whole of Europe, face the challenges posed by migration; or we are part of the problem and remain alone with migrants, with all the problems associated with it, and with rare countries, without the help of Europe and without adequate resources. Every sane person has a clear answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u90	Mr. Ambassador, thank you for your position. Mr. Gregor Perič has the floor. Get Mrs. Eva Irgle ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. As we've seen today, he's not so self-sufficient. I'd like to start with that first. I would first suggest that we clarify a little bit what all these documents are, that even those protesting today before the National Assembly know what they are protesting against. One is the Marrakesh Political Declaration, the other is the 2018-2020 Action Plan and both processes are conducted within the framework of the European Union in relation to Africa. And the third is a global agreement on safe, orderly and legal migration adopted at UN level. All these documents have been the result of the Rabat process, which has been ongoing since 2006. It's not from yesterday, but it's been a few years since this process has been going on. Slovenia played an important catalytic role in this Rabat process, in particular at its earliest stage. As part of its first Presidency of Slovenia, the European Union has done just that in the government of Mr Janša. And in this spirit they are also the position of the then President of the Government of December 2007, who we have read in the media in recent days, but they are radically different today because they have turned ideologically 180 degrees. Are we surprised? Maybe, maybe not. Does the global agreement on migration deprive the country of its sovereignty in the field of migration policy? No, no, no. Is the global agreement legally binding? No, no, no. But the global agreement is abolishing the borders? No, no, no. Does the global agreement mean additional costs for Slovenia? No, no, no. Does it establish a global agreement on the human right to migration? Not exactly. But a global agreement opens borders for illegal migration? No, no, no. Is it addressing a global agreement on the causes of migration in the countries of origin? Yeah. It is an effort to ensure safe, orderly and legal migration, to prevent trafficking in human beings, to prevent trafficking in human beings, to ensure a decent return of migrants to countries of origin, to protect women and children and for many more; but it must be read. With such simple or simple interpretations, some of you here play with irrationality, spread xenophobia, strengthen your sense of fear, disaster, and put it all together on a common denominator called fake news. Why are you doing this? Why do you engage in such activities or operate in fear? Simply because fear is something that convinces you that you've become a stranger in your own body and a stranger in your own country. It has the power to stain your soul, to let go of some misty curtain before your mind, and to hurt your heart. But only if we allow it. In the opposition, you have actually put yourself over the UN on the issue of migration in the face of planned, wrong and misleading understanding. You're explaining to us that the UN is some kind of enemy of the people and that it has stood above the sovereign will of the country. You are fighting in some way against those fundamental principles that led to the construction of a new order, progress, cooperation and stability during the post-World War II period. You deny subtlely, silently, but therefore no less perfidious, which is in the spirit of the General Declaration of Human Rights and everything that has actually occurred in the seven decades since its signature. The position or role of New Slovenia is also somehow understandable because, I have a feeling, she found herself in some way in distress. The NSI colleagues did not talk about some of the fates of people, but in particular focused on the technological aspect, on the effectiveness of international organisations, which this document does not refer to. He's not his subject and he can't solve all these questions. In my own way, I understand, because if SDS is going to the mountain jumper and wants to jump 200 meters, then you can't even stay down and watch, but you also have to participate in this game, and that's clear to me. But it is a little less clear to me that Members of the European People's Party, Socialists and Democrats and Liberals have largely supported the agreement and have been critical to the Council of the European Union, which has withdrawn from it. On a national level, you say one thing, you speak and work and vote differently on a European level, unless you agree with the membership of your family of the European People's Party. We must also ask why, as Slovenia, we have interpreted and argued one thing throughout Europe and the world in December 2007, but today we say something quite contrary. What happened at that time? The real answer to this question is force simple — nothing. Nothing happened. You only use this subject on the wings of fear to strengthen your position and collect cheap political points. In a way, you collect votes and nothing else. Because if it wasn't, we'd be offering solutions, but you don't have a solution. We're talking about some alternatives. We're talking about nationalism, building walls, unilateralism, isolation, weapons, and village guards. This is all the ideal basis for the boom of smuggling and trafficking. Accepting the declaration and the arrangements in some way is of no interest to you, as you would then lose this machine, this ideal machine to generate fear. We would be forced to seek solutions and look forward, which I believe is difficult. Unfortunately, you only offer one, your program 10 + 100, where 10 + 100 means 10 words 100 lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u92	Mr Grimes, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. I would only ask if you could remind a respected colleague who says that nothing has happened that only over 530,000 illegal migrants have gone through Slovenia in the past three years. And then don't say nothing happened. This is about the same as a colleague from the ruling coalition who spoke a little earlier from the SD when he said that this is a society of dark states that reject this declaration. Given that Russia will soon be among them after some clues, I will be happy to remind him of those words. This is foolishness and is offensive to all the neighboring independent, sovereign states, who are deciding their own fate. It is only about what gives priority to what; responsibility to its own citizens or giving priority to migration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u94	Good. That's what I understood. It was basically a replica. Let's move on. Mrs. Eva Irgle, prepare for Master Andrej Shircelj. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I have listened very carefully to both the views of the groups of Members and Members so far. I must say that the coalition MPs today are trying to show such a picture that those who support the global agreement are called the so-called Marrakesh Declaration, you are humanists, you are humanitarianists, you respect human rights, you respect human dignity, and that we are those who do not support this agreement – but we do not support it rightly – today has been repeatedly exposed, why, I will say more about this in the following way – those who are inhumane, inhumane, who do not know solidarity, who do not have the heart for those who need help in distress. That's not gonna hold! That's not gonna hold. In fact, I would have turned the question and thrown the ball to the other side. We know that there is at least one party in this House who, after World War II, had a completely different attitude towards refugees and what has happened, what issues we still have to deal with today because we were as inhuman as the nation. Even though that's the essence and the essence of the nation and we should solve these things once. But today these same individuals speak — even though the historical conscience and the historical memory are still very strong — that we are those who do not respect human rights, who do not understand human dignity. The countries that have resigned from this global agreement, which will be adopted on 11 December in Morocco and will then enter into the UN on 17 December, are: the United States of America, Hungary, Austria, Australia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Israel. It appears that Russia and China will also withdraw from this agreement. The derogation is also considered: Denmark, Romania, Italy, Switzerland. In Croatia, the government supports this treaty, while the President of the country clearly says it is against such a signature. At the same time, we do not have a common position of the European Union. But what does it have to do with all these countries that I have listed now and have decided, after careful consideration, not to give this signature — or to withdraw it — to this harmful agreement that interferes with the vital essence or the essence of some civilization? It is common for these countries to be aware of the need to protect our way of life, which has been fought over decades and decades. We all know what happened after World War II. The European Union or Europe is based on a common fight against such things. It is based on respect for human rights and on the gains of democracy, which, of course, connects nations and in no way deny them sovereignty and their own decision-making, which is what this global agreement is doing right now. Europe therefore has its history. And it has its own value system. Every Slovenian and every citizen of Europe is proud of what has been fought. Of course, this must also be respected and protected. If we are to remain united, then Europe must be able to formulate a common opinion, a common policy on these migration issues. Given that we can see today that more and more countries are withdrawing from this agreement, it is more than obvious that this is not the case. But of course mature policy is expected to reach a common agreement, otherwise we will wander into a certain subject and, above all, we will weaken the conditions for a European citizen and a citizen. Certainly, in this global agreement, which has been under consideration for some time – although so far only in the English version – it is disputed, however, that the agreement in some way equates illegal and legal migrants, which is a problem, even if we know that this divide has already been clearly defined at different levels. He's blurring again today. Looks like he's got a deeper purpose. It is also important that this agreement gives more than clearly equal status to migrants and in some ways removes borders, while at the same time it is expected from the Member States that will sign this agreement or say that they support it to contain any negative reporting on migration, on migrants, on what is happening on the social policy scene in relation to migration. Here, of course, we run into the most fundamental human right that has been fought again, that is the right to freedom of speech. You said, the President of the Government has said this several times, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said this several times – I am sorry that he is not here today, that there is not really any one of the relevant interlocutors at this meeting, which tells us much about how important this topic is for them, or that it is only that we are dealing with those who feel otherwise – they have repeatedly said that this document is legally non-binding. If this document is actually legally non-binding, then I don't think it needs our signature. If this document is legally non-binding – and I doubt that this is so, because it has still proved to be later that all documents are then somehow implemented through different stages of legislation if it is legally non-binding – I do not know why so many countries are giving up on it, and this very important, most powerful was actually the joy of the world. The agreement is unacceptable for us because it interferes with the sovereignty of countries and in their legal order, because in some way, in some way, very subtlely begins to change society, European society, this civilization and begins to change the values that have been fought over decades. You're talking about compassion today, you're talking about help, you're talking about solidarity, you're talking about respect for human dignity, you're talking about tribulation, you're talking about pain, you're talking about difficult fates, these are words, and these are also situations that I'm taking very seriously, but I'm not manipulating them. Today, in particular, coalition Members are manipulated by these words and situations, which can be extremely difficult and difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You have the word "magic." Andrej Shircelj, prepare yourself for Mr. Robert Pavšič. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must make it very clear that I am in favour of addressing the issue of migration. I am also in favour of somehow limiting the unfair distribution of capital and property worldwide. Especially if we follow the data of the International Monetary Fund, which shows that the centralisation of the entire property, the world's property in the hands of some ten or several hundred people or businesses is being strengthened, which means that this is actually unfair. At the same time, of course, it has emerged, in what way and whether this document we are talking about today is the right way to reduce these differences, and in particular to reduce the poverty that is currently weighing, I think, more than two thirds of the world's halves or two thirds of the planet. I think that such a way and such a way of accepting is not one that would actually make it possible to reduce poverty at source, and secondly, that migration flows would not actually mean a better position for people, whatever that actually means for them. Why not? For the first time, because this is not a global agreement, migration is a matter for those countries from which migrants come, and for the second time for those countries that accept these migrants. Otherwise there can be and otherwise any such document is a letter on paper, which for some can create false illusions, can also create false dreams that actually something will happen, and the thing on this hemisphere only complicates. This document does not distinguish between legal and illegal migrants. Although we also have an illegal word in our translation, there is no such word in the basic text. And secondly, this document does not take account of countries that will give hospitality. They do not take their will into account, and only by their will can they achieve those goals that are noble — to reduce poverty, to reduce differences in a world that is actually only increasing. In fact, this document may be a false expectation for some, and with this declaration it is essentially like eating a headache tablet, which is still a little sweetened, and you thought you were fed and that you ate. None of this is actually true. The next important thing here is what effect this declaration would have in fact - I hope that the government will not accept it - will have on Slovenia. In fact, it's not obvious. Nor is it clear what impact it would have on Europe. But he's totally in charge of all things. It deals fully with the social issue, comprehensively regulates education, comprehensively regulates, see, ladies and gentlemen, even financial issues. In Objective 20, where it speaks of financial flows, it is said that measures to combat illegal financial flows and money laundering will not interfere with remittances of migrants to domestics with unjustified and excessive or discriminatory policies. It speaks of financial transactions as to how countries should reduce measures that may result in money laundering. What does that mean for legislation? And these financial transactions are supposed to go through the banking system. What's it gonna be The European banking system is actually universal for all of Europe, it is harmonised. What changes must the country accept here? What does it have to do to actually make this happen? We're talking about financial transactions, ladies and gentlemen. What is the purpose of this financial transaction? What's the point? We are also talking about bonds at this point that are supposed to have some relief and so on. It is so comprehensive that it is irresponsible not to look at all the effects before signing. But these effects will be such that they will mean a weakness for the country that accepts these migrants. That is why I think and suggest to the Government that it reconsider, read again, look at the effects, look at what is good for Slovenia, and simply reject such a text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It is your turn, Mr Robert Pavšić, to prepare Mr Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u99	Thank you, President, for your word. I don't think it's a problem that you're against the agreement. This is perfectly legitimate and everyone has a right to be against it. The problem is the argument. If we say black, you say white or red. We read this document completely differently; I'm really confused right now. On the one hand, we have assurances – and we know how to read ourselves – that have rejected all your findings, and on the other hand, you still say yours. So we can discuss 14 years here and we won't get an answer or you won't convince us, not you. In fact, the problem is in argument. If only now I quickly sum up what I've heard, not just today, but in the last few weeks: there are hordes coming to fight the capable; there are young people with full pockets of cash and modern phones; there are those who are falling from the fifth or higher floor; there are rapists and those who are maiming women. We've got all of those in our house. We can't generalize on patterns we don't know. I mean, if we're talking or if you're telling us that we don't have the expected effects of this document, please don't be so flat-rate about who's among these potential migrants or refugees. But that's not a crucial question at all. “Then there were individuals on the European side who defeated these hordes.” I think that's what Mr Grimes said a few times. [[…]] It doesn't matter. And then they're perfidically involved in Soros, leftists, and other dark forces. And we have now seen, Mr Šircelj, that, in fact, according to your first sentence, you are a very strong leftist – to regulate migration and distribute world assets. Left [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Nice, well, because we're all in some areas on the left and some on the right. After all, he's going to spend the whole night at the same pace all day. On one side, with the other, and we're gonna play this ping-pong, great. It's not a waste of time. It's not a waste of time. It is right to talk about these matters, and it is also right to find solutions together. But I have a problem with duality, double standards. A few years ago, that was fine, and today is not good. Let's just let it stop. As for the translations of this matter, as Mr Möderndorfer pointed out before he lost his word, I hope that today he will be able to explain something else on this subject, because I was just wondering what happened in the past we gave you reasoned answers to the obvious, but you, like us, are still stubbornly insisting. [[…]] And that constant diametricity is meaningless. Mr Baković mentioned a few minutes ago what we discussed yesterday – and I am also in the position of the Group of Members – the recommendations of the European Union, which we discussed yesterday on the Committee on Home Affairs: European cyber security, common standards and procedures for returning illegally staying third-country nationals, the European Union Agency for Asylum, which the Government says will facilitate the implementation and functioning of the system and will provide more direct assistance to Member States in critical situations and strengthen joint surveillance at sea and external borders. We discussed this yesterday, and this seems to also be due to the Marrakesh declaration, the one from a few months ago or the one from a few years ago, which was then called the Rabat declaration. So, these agreements have consequences, concrete consequences, but we will deal with these consequences in the National Assembly, bring them into line with our legislation and implement them sovereignly in our own sovereign territory. As for the migrant crisis and the 530 thousand migrants who had crossed Slovenia, what would have happened if they had closed their eyes and told me, that is not our problem, and closed the border unwaveringly? Is there anything we can do about it? No, they'd make trouble for others. So all these things are not so simple – yes, it is very "funny" colleague Mahnic, 530 thousand people, 530 thousand souls [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] We're not gonna talk about this. We can talk about this later. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's it. The problem doesn't go away if we close our eyes. There's gonna be a problem here. The key question is whether we are in favour of regulating migration. We are certainly all united here — yes. And this document is a good basis to settle, even if it will have such consequences as the recommendations that we discussed on the committee yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Shircel, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Replica to Mr. Robert Pavšić. I also mentioned that the International Monetary Fund was the one who found out about the centralisation of property and injustice in this division of assets. This was personally said by Mrs Christine Lagarde, the leader of this. If you think this is left-wing, because now you're quickly starting to divide to the left-hand side and to the right-hand side- and don't then say that we started to divide to the left-hand side, then that's not an argument. Now you want to take this into some waters, which, I'll say, are political, for my own personal opinion. But the fact that someone is in favour of making more justice in sharing this world's property, where 3% of people have 97% of all property or more, it's not left-wing, it's humane, it's completely different from what you actually imagine. Don't take advantage of humanity and socialism, you'll think it's just a left-wing thing. No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u102	Okay, we had a replica. Mr Bevk will follow Mr Boštjan Koražija. Mr. Korazzi, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. I, too, am a migrant, a daily migrant working from Ptuj to Ljubljana and from Ljubljana back to Ptuj, and I ask through the motioner or the caller of this session to explain whether I am a legal or illegal migrant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u104	There was a question. Members will answer if they want to. Let's move on. Mr. Sam Bevko is Mrs. Mateja Udovč. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u105	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. A respected choir! Today's 13th extraordinary meeting takes place, at least its first part, in the classic choreography of the applicant's recommendations regarding the Marrakesh political declaration on refugees: the performance of the President of the largest opposition political party in the Janez Janša National Assembly, which happens more in a more orderly manner, or only in cases where they assess that they will receive additional political points, and elected political sympathizers on the balcony of the large debate hall and protesters on the market before Parliament. Let me say that I support the Marrakesh political declaration concerning the mass migrations we are witnessing. Migration represents a global challenge facing all countries as either countries of origin, transit or destination. Migration or refugee is an phenomenon that has accompanied mankind since its consciousness and has been given different names and legal frameworks throughout history. Three years ago, the whole of Europe was shaken by a refugee wave from the Middle East, Asia and Africa. The entire international community began to deal too late and too slowly with one of the biggest problems of the modern world. Dearly beloved, between 2014 and 2018, we celebrated the 100th anniversary of World War I in Europe and around the world, which ended with a great event on 11 November 2018. The Paris Memorial was attended by statesmen from all over the world. It was a global meeting of statesmen who shape the fate of today's world. Why am I mentioning this anniversary? For the first time, because of the image of a modern refugee, a fugitive driven from home by war, was attributed the first world war, and for the second time, because in two days Rudolph Maister, a state holiday in memory of his extraordinary military achievements. Over the past hundred years, the Great War has triggered large-scale migration processes, caused the displacement of millions of refugees across Europe, thus blurring the border between the first battle lines and the backdrop. The military did not spare the civilian population, burned villages, and killed civilians, thus finally blurring the borders between soldiers and civilians. In particular, the civilian population was exposed in the immediate hinterland of large battlefields, most prominently in border areas. Also in the wider area of the Soča Front, which opened in 1915 in the Slovenian ethnic territory and caused the spread of the civilian population. Slovenians from the eastern side of the Soča battleground, according to the left bank of Soča, have moved the Austrian authorities to the interior of the Austrian-Hungarian monarchy, to Kranjsko, Styria and Koroška, and to refugee camps in lower Austria. On the west side, this is on the right bank, and they were relocated almost throughout the whole territory of the Kingdom of Italy. According to the Slovenian encyclopedia, the first was about 80,000 and the second was between 10 and 12 thousand. The Italian authorities evicted the Slovenians mainly from Brd, from the area between the Idrija and Soč rivers, and from the Upper Soča River, while the inhabitants from Kambrecka and Kanalski first evicted from Gorenja and Dolenja Tarbij and Gnidovca in early June 1915 and later relocated throughout the Apennine Peninsula, to Novaro, along the Ligurian coast and to Piemont. How cruel and merciless were the refugees, also witnessing the command of the Austro-Hungarian military authorities of May 22, 1915, when the unfortunate people of the outskirts of Crassus had barely two hours to take the most urgent personal items and to take the train inland. The correspondence of the Gerbec family from the village of Gabera in Kambreška, which was accurately described by historian and great acquaintance of World War I Dr. Petra Svljšak, is shocking. Letters are an invaluable document of time, for they describe the everyday life of refugees and the love of domestic fire. From Diana Marin along the ligure coast, the father wrote down the family: “We have been very weak because we do not have real food, we are only bleaching with oil, since we are here, and oil has little power,” and on and on, “we have not been very hungry yet, but we are hungry for other things, that is, dear country and native language and much more.” How many similar letters and fates are there today? Definitely hundreds or millions. Many would rather return to their home hearth than seek an uncertain future in a foreign world, so we must separate between the illegal migrants involved in white goods smuggling and the refugees who fled home for war and their own safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The word has Matthew Udovč, to prepare Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. It saddens me to see today, listening to our discussions. It saddens me in particular that we have not learned enough from history. As saddening as I am, today we are bringing anxiety and fear to our citizens. The more we want to remove it, the more it lays within us, the soul of us, the more it binds us, the more it drags us to the bottom. The more we think about him, the more he takes over us, the more he's like a phobia that's very difficult to remove. It saddens me that many people are not looking for positive approaches to solving the problem, but simply spreading, bringing fear to people, while they are not aware that they are not solving the problem, but are spreading intolerance among people who can be very dangerous. Migrations have been monitoring mankind throughout its history, and that's nothing new. Many Slovenians, many Slovenes soon emigrated to America, Canada, Australia, after World War II to Europe and other Western countries, where they went, as has already been said, with the belly behind the bread. The flow of migration in history has never been stopped, but we can or must learn to live with it. Each and every one of us chooses a path that will be better for him. Better to a better life. Our citizens also want better bread and therefore are going abroad. By leaving our country, the best people who hope to be happier in other countries, to live better than at home, there is room for us, room for others who believe that life is better for us. As our people thought, they left Slovenia for the same reason. Today, the majority of economic migrants are, and it is right that this phenomenon is also being dealt with properly. Migrations today must never be a means of dissension and intimidation for Slovenian citizens. Migration can also be treated differently, on the positive side, we can also take advantage of its advantages. Slovenia met with economic migrants after World War II, when workers from other republics of Yugoslavia moved to Slovenia, mainly from Bosnia and Kosovo. At that time, most of us needed them for the simplest and physical works, and we accepted them without prejudice. The greater problem, or intolerance, arose after our own self-sustaining war when refugees came from Bosnia and other war zones of the former Yugoslavia. At that time, the first resistance to these migrants, or refugees, appeared. There have been speculations about terrorists, the intimidation of our citizens by the domination of culture and religion, and above all, as today, that refugees will flood us and take Slovenia into account that the threat of increased crime and other social, pathological phenomena are not even mentioned. And what happened? Nothing. It's nothing. Most refugees or migrants have since moved to Europe, the United States, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, and only a small number of people have remained with us. Slovenia was only a transit country for them. Nor did the statistics on criminal offences in that period. We had a similar experience in the recent refugee wave when more than one million migrants arrived in Europe in 2015. Most of the people in the old continent were very scared. Different cultures and the faith of refugees have only increased unpredictable situations and panicked. This panic has not gone away until today, despite the fact that today there is no longer such a large migratory wave. Migrants use Slovenia, as I said, as a transit country. Of course, there's a few left, but they don't threaten us in anything. Above all, however, we are threatened by our ignorance and uncertainty, which are the best food for fear and prejudice. International migration accounts for around 3% of the world's population. This means that in a global sense, migrants will not flood the world and destroy civilizations. Developed countries with migrants are solving their demographic problems, and they are also successfully integrated into the labour market. Less developed countries, however, make transfers from developed countries through various projects at their expense. The views of Pope Francis and the Vatican for the resolution of the migration problem are also identical to that of the United Nations Global Agreement. Will this make it easier for us to support the agreement? It is right that politics in such complex and important situations should come together in a united and sovereign manner, in a common dialogue to find the best solutions and bring them into everyday life, and it is very wrong when migrant policy uses only and especially for obtaining pre-election votes. We must never forget that the words of politicians can be a very powerful weapon that can lead to uncontrollable situations. It could even be wars. I hope you're aware of the effect today's session will have on people sitting at home watching us and listening. And perhaps now they are even more afraid that they may come to their remote destination today or tomorrow. All this is thought only because they may not even separate migrants and only associate that word with illegal immigrants and terrorists! For Slovenia, which is a small country, international cooperation, integration with international institutions, which are strong and can help us in situations like those in 2015. If we do not support this, we will remain alone in future similar situations and cases. However, there will be no confusion, I myself will continue to advocate a comprehensive regulation of the problem of illegal migration, in particular for clearly established legal rules that will be acceptable to all and which we will all respect. But I only want one thing, just like you, everyone else – to continue living in a free, tolerant, open society, especially in advanced societies. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word to prepare Jean Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! In today's debate, it is right to recall Plato's distinction between an erotic and a dialectic dialogue. The first is that each person proves his or her point and that the other side is wrong, and that the other side is wrong; it is the expectation that through the debate it will be demonstrated that both sides have the right to point out some aspect of the truth to the other. Today, I must point out that, at least this is my own opinion, there is an aristocratic debate. The art of aristocracy, however, is characterized by persuasion, which is used by disloyal grips, by deceivers who have a mere appearance of logical regularity. Logic was invented by the ancient Greeks to prove the claim of rhetoric in the then democracy. They got to somewhere and Aristotle just wrapped it up in some formulas that we still use today in information technology and everywhere. Such disloyalty is the crowd’s murmuring or ridicule of a person, as we have experienced today, ideas, the exploitation of the opponent’s weakness, modesty, or compassion, or the awakening of certain passions. I don't think it's good to play too much with fear, hatred and envy. Fear is just one of the most powerful emotions and is quick to grasp. Speaking, which promotes the spread of fear in Slovenia, opens the way for the spread of paranoid mentality, which is always dangerous. Renowned German theorist Max Horkheimer warned a number of years ago that in modern societies the origin of social prejudices and outbursts of hatred is precisely in paranoid mentality, in suppressed fears and envy of people. This hatred and envy, however, result from a lack of life’s joy because of material, social, or cultural misery. Envy is even more divisive than hatred. Because envy later fades, it is harder to eliminate it than hate. That's a little bit of a envy problem. And that's not good if it starts to dominate people. We are also trying to achieve this by arguing that refugees receive a thousand Euros. In fact, those who are recognised as refugees receive €18 per month. The refugees really cost us so much, because the whole process of returning, receiving, hearings and so on, if we put all this together – we can see this, it is from the Court of Auditors' report. This morning, at the breakfast invited to me by my colleague Ludmila Novak – thank you for that – this brought a very interesting and joyful guest, I think it will not be wrong to name him Blaža Švab, who has somehow illuminated this morning’s space. On the question of what he thinks about politicians, he warned us that our words reflect that we in people are needless to arouse negative feelings, even though they are in reality far more joyful than we think. In doing so, he stressed that the most important thing for him is that we are respectful of each other, that we know how to greet each other and respect each other's dignity, because he who is constantly in front of the audience is always in contact, feeling it, and he knows it. In addition, let us stop corrupting ourselves with our evils and with little polite controversy the joy of the people, because this will also defend Parliamentism and reputation. If you look at statistics, what they show when they ask people, Parliament is at the lowest level. This is in a democratic country and in a society where the parties are also referred to as democratic parties. We need to look out for our reputation. [[…]] It's right, we have different, one have values of compassion, people, justice, the other more loyalty, purity, holiness. I emphasize, I absolutely understand that, patriotic inclination, supreme loyalty, but let us also understand the other side. And I don't know so much about left and right, but more about liberals that are a little bit more open and conservative. One thing and the other is needed in people who are held back and hold certain things so that they don't get away from us. So in the future, I want more such dialogue, creative dialogue, and we will achieve better results, including with regard to the view of people on democracy and Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The word has Jean Mahnič, and Alexander Reberšek is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! First, let me express great disappointment, neither the Minister for Home Affairs is in the Chamber nor the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in the Chamber. When the views of the parliamentary groups were presented, they left, the lady sitting here, I don't know, but I doubt that there's a secretary of state at the Ministry, so are you? [[…]] Yeah, okay, okay. You will probably be able to say something then, but I would expect you to – above all, I hope you will say that if you are the ones who will applaud in Marrakesh, and above all, I expected that somehow Dr Cerar and Mr Poklukar will answer the questions that have arisen, but unfortunately it is too difficult. And the fact that these documents were hidden, that translations were not published, but that they should be done at all, is proof that you knew what the response would be, so that we are not the ones who don't know what you're reading to us, but you are yourself, by trying to hide it from the public. How is this document read? I have read the previous version, even in English, I have also flown in Slovenian today, and I can say that you have obviously not read either English or Slovenian, because things are written here quite clearly. It would be hard for anyone else to interpret them. So that everything doesn't go negative, I can point out one positive thing, right here, one point, and ask you what you're going to do with it. For here, for example, it says: “We commit ourselves to creating favourable political, economic, social and environmental conditions, so that people in their countries can live peacefully, productively and sustainablely and realize personal desires while ensuring that because of the hopeless conditions and the deteriorating environment, they will not be forced to seek opportunities to survive elsewhere by means of illegal migration.” What exactly will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do here? Because if you are serious about some development aid, with some development programme for the Middle East and Africa, this is contrary to the Marrakesh Declaration adopted in May, where it says that Europe needs a new workforce, new engineers, and that we can give people from Africa and the Middle East an opportunity to go to school in Europe and then work here. In short, how will you then develop some of the potentials of these countries, and if you first confirm a declaration that somehow commits yourself to trying to replace the labour force that is missing in Europe with them? And if we continue to follow this agreement: “We commit ourselves to adapting opportunities and paths for legal migration by enabling labour mobility and decent work, taking into account demographic data and the actual situation in the labour market.” We know about demographics in Europe, we know about the situation in the labour market, how certain jobs lack people. We've got a few unemployed people, but they obviously don't want to do those parts. Here are the clear clues that you see migration as a substitute for Europeans. You want in accordance with cultural Marxism, according to the liberal logic of gender theory, according to when you are good to the fourth totalitarianism, and this is Islamic radicalism and Islamic radicalism is present in these countries, in some way to replace, obviously, the European population. I think Mr Perič has listed what will not be here, but let me say: "We commit ourselves to managing national borders in a coordinated manner, promoting bilateral and regional cooperation, ensuring the security of countries, communities and migrants, ensuring the safe and legal cross-border movement of people and preventing illegal migration. We also undertake to implement border management policies that respect national sovereignty, the rule of law, international obligations, human rights of all migrants regardless of their status." This paragraph confirms both findings. When it says “ensure rights for all migrants regardless of their status”, that is to say, whether they are legal migrants or an illegal migrant, these two concepts are equivalent and the prevention of irregular migration by allowing for a safe and legal cross-border movement. Yes, of course, there will be no illegal migration and you will not have to prevent it because you will regulate this migration legally, so that cross-border movement will be smooth. Then, if I move forward, you commit yourself again to: “We will allow all migrants, regardless of their status, to exercise human rights through secure access to basic services.” And here you're putting across the border, an illegal border crossing that will no longer exist, you're giving migration as a human right. And to introduce censorship, Goal 17, 33: “Promoting independent, objective and quality media reporting, including online, education of media professionals on migration-related vocabulary, with full respect for media freedom.” You're talking about how public funds need to be cut off from all those media reporting negatives about migrants. I don't know why you would want to make any amendments to this if possible, but write: in Slovenia only Youth and Eugenia Carl can report migrants. Then there'll be peace. Maybe work, evening, diary, and what you're in control of. And again: safe, orderly, legal migration. Ladies and gentlemen, these people who are coming will never be integrated, and integration has no point in talking, we should talk about assimilation. You compare the Slovenians who have gone to the United States with the migrants who are coming. I can be a little critical here, but do you know what the difference is? Slovenians who went to America, their children mostly, including those who are known, unfortunately today, do not speak Slovenian, speak all English. These immigrants from the Gulf countries, who have come to France, still do not speak French today. That's the difference between how we adjusted. And don't insult the Slovenes and the Slovenians who went after World War II over the meadow, by comparing them today with these illegal migrants. 530 thousand souls, said Mr. Pavšič earlier, crossed the border that this is 530 – how many of these have you helped? How many times have you been to the border? How much money did you donate? Did you take any home? There was a call, there was a call on the website of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if anyone wants to take someone home. Why didn't you check in? Deputy Member Jani Janko Möderndorfer also advocates these migrants, but instead of giving an empty apartment to a migrant, he then broadcast it for a thousand euros a month after the elections! You know, words – actions, that's the difference between us. I do what I do in my words in my actions, and you don't, and that's the basic difference between us.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Here you go, replica. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Pavšič first applied, please. [[advertising from the hall]] You have a replica, you both have a replica. Just calm down for a second, please. Here you go, Mr. Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. That was extremely unworthy, Comrade Mahnic. What I did during the refugee crisis, I know. And to whom I helped, I know. And that's what those of us who helped them know. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Let me tell you, at the meeting of the leaders of the Group of Members, we have agreed, Mr Jani, that you will be given the floor at the end. Okay? Let's move on. Mr. Alexander Reberšek has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Please proceed with procedure, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u115	The President, the Rules of Procedure shall apply equally. Once again, I warn you that I have the right to a replica. I was named and told a lie and I have the right to object to it and to explain what he actually said. And please, if I can get a replica. What you have considered to be the leader of the parliamentary groups regarding my debate is something else. And now I'm replicating, and this has nothing to do with the debate. And please, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u116	I'm asking you if you were misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u117	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Of course, Mr Mahnic made it clear that Mr Möderndorfer was giving away the apartment and not giving it to the fugitive, but that – he explained what he had just explained. First of all, I don't own an apartment, and I never gave it away. But it is true that the magazine Democracy has published lies based on Facebook. This apartment is owned by my neighbor and that's it. But Mr. Mahnic likes to believe and makes his own lies. And once again I will make it clear, Mr Mahnic, that for such false announcements and the advertisements you are making here in public, I will simply have to sue you to explain in court why you are saying this. I'm so sorry, Mr. Mahnic, this is unworthy. I've already told you that you have some of your methods, but you like to do it, of course with ease, because you have clear instructions. And once again, Mr. Mahnic, stop lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Reberšek has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! As you have probably noticed before, others may have closed their eyes, we are experiencing a quiet Islamisation of Europe – slowly but persistently. As people from other countries move into our society, our society is becoming more and more like the society from which these people come. More and more different cultures are difficult to live without conflicts in one territory. Let me only remind you of the Balkans in the early 1990s. I wholeheartedly defend my country and my people and the Christian values on which Europe is built. Europe is our home and no one has the right to kidnap it. I agree with the Dalai Lama, who has declared and said that Europe belongs to Europeans and that refugees should return to their homelands and help with their reconstruction, just as Pedro Opeka does. Six letters and one number, Africa 5, on 1919 is worth more than all the words I've heard today about humanitarianism. With the money we are spending on illegal migration, we could specifically help people living in great poverty in their countries. Only in such a concrete way can we help with the root causes of the suffering and suffering of all these people. We do not help the poorest and most vulnerable by promoting illegal migration. For they remain in their country, where they are, because they have no money to travel to Europe. As security expert Boštjan Perne wrote: “There are millions of people in Yemen dying, half a million children on the threshold of death. Where are all the European humanitarian advocates now? The migrants' apartment and social welfare, and the children's side of death? False solidarity in the service of internal policy." People work with us for a minimum wage. Some have worked hard and worked hard their whole lives, and they don't even get 500 euros in pension. I don't know if you're aware, but we have people living in 2018 with no electricity, no water and no sanitation. Why don't you worry about the weakest Slovenian citizens, I ask you. And when we talk about migration, we need to say the fact that 8 000 Slovenian citizens, or more than the inhabitants of Vrhnika, moved out of Slovenia two years ago. Last year 9 thousand Slovenian citizens, or more than the inhabitants of Postojna, moved out of Slovenia. Why does the government not care about Slovenian citizens? Why do we deal with illegal migrants and their rights and care for them? Tell me, whose government are you?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Kaloh, prepare the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u123	President, thank you so much for your word. I don't think it's right for some coalition Members to just hang us in the face of hatred, that we're not human, that we're just building political points on these migration stories. I will deny you with my own case. I mean, I'm married to a migrant, believe it or not, a migrant from the Russian Federation. It is true that this migrant is a dual doctorate of science, speaking five languages, including the flawless Slovenian language, and, of course, she is also a proud Slovenian citizen. So much so that I deny you these double standards. At the same time, this is also proof that these migrant stories, I am talking about foreign scientists, artists, of course, are successful if these migrants come from the same cultural and civilisational environments that are closer to our European space. In the declaration itself, this global pact states, "Migrating has always brought wealth, innovation and sustainable development", but as we have heard, especially those who came in 2015 with that migratory wave – have they found any employment at all? Thousands of mills were doctors, programmers, engineers and so on, and others were, see, people, including those from the Muslim world and sub-Saharan Africa, but now the value of one basket of social capital is almost zero here in the West. That's a fact. The market of the Muslim world and this poor world of sub-Saharan Africa is simply too large for our Europe. Europe will not survive it. A prominent French lawyer, historian Jean-Louis Harouel, wrote in the Paris daily Le Figaro recently: “The idea of free migration destroys the ownership of Western peoples over itself. Human sovereignty is based on owning itself with its own destiny, with its own identity, with its own land, with its material and spiritual heritage." There's probably nothing to add to that. As far as the legal aspect of this declaration is concerned, however, government representatives here today have said much that it is not legally binding. But it'll be legally binding. Give yourself some relevant legal opinion on this subject. If States in practice comply with this agreement, this is under point A and under point B, because two conditions have to be met, it is said that they will take this as an obligation, this agreement will form the basis for the emergence of the norm of customary international law. What does that mean? That this agreement will become internationally binding. We haven't heard that from the government representatives today. Yes, it's not legally binding at this point, but it will become, and believe me, very quickly. This general practice will begin in the final stage of December and will quickly adopt this practice as, I would say, legally binding. I would just like to refer to Austria and Switzerland, where I somehow know the situation through kinship. These are countries with very high standards, and now if their political representatives somehow three common points I found there myself: that the global agreement on migration does not foresee that immigrants will be included in the culture of countries of immigration, there will be no assimilation at all; secondly, countries must allow migrants access to the social system; and thirdly, they must strive to present migration to the population as something positive. [[…]] It's like some kind of obligation. It binds them to it. Austria has already said, for example, that maintaining national sovereignty is what led first in their decision not to accede to this agreement. Therefore, in fact, I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be so wise, prudent, and, of course, to our heritage, to our culture, religion and, at the final stage of today's national existence, to reject or withdraw from this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc, get Dr. Ange Logar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! In the beginning, I'd say we're witnesses to something we've already learned from the past. In front of Parliament, a handful, some ten adherents, on the balcony until recently, great supporters of the great leader of the opposition who are disturbing the work of the national assembly, and, of course, on the other hand, we have received a large number of untruths, which have been repeated and repeated. The fact is that this is the topic on which the non-fascists and extreme rights in Europe grow wings, and it is sad that our right hand is also fed on such subjects and spreads falsehoods and lies, as well as intolerance among citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The declaration we are talking about today in no way interferes with the sovereign decision of the Republic of Slovenia, as has been said many times today – but this is not essential. It is essential that you try to encourage, bring among our people some fear, fear of something foreign, different, fear of people who speak another language who believe in another religion, into another god who is therefore nothing and absolutely nothing worse. Let us simply ask ourselves whether we are human or not. Is it not human for someone who is fleeing to a better world because of war or poverty along with his children and family? This has happened to our ancestors, too. In the morning you were at a prayer breakfast organised by the opposition in the Assembly premises, and if you are Christians, Catholics – I am not an atheist, but I believe that Catholic faith as well as a number of other religions is spreading positive traditions. This is not according to these actions, not at all. And if I quote Pope Francis on the issue of migrants, he said: "The only reasonable response to the challenges of migration is solidarity and compassion. Assistance to people in distress must not be the subject of political bargaining." Do we agree with that? I hope so. Mr. Mahnic is moving his head. But the key thing is that we people who come to Slovenia, of course, are talking about legal migrants and refugees, and we can integrate them properly. Let me tell you, in Ljubljana, we have no problem with this. My son recently got a schoolmate from Syria in kindergarten, who was a great member of the group, and together they cooperate completely normally and without any problems. Unfortunately, not everyone sees things that way. But there is another important thing here, very important, which has already been mentioned in the past – there must be reasons and sources for people to flee. Here, however, we are responsible for all and, above all, Western European civilisation, NATO and all those imperialist interests that interfere with countries and cause wars, and that is also why people from these countries are fleeing. We prefer more resources for development aid than for weapons, and believe that it will be much better in this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word to prepare Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u127	Thank you, Chairman. Now I would only ask Mr Koprivac not to offend the individuals and people who have come to the market today before Parliament to express their will. He said there was a handful of them, I think there were more than those who voted for you as mayor in Ljubljana. Now, the left far left government is convincing us all today and telling us about morality, when you are immoral on this side that you represent in this debate, and they are talking about all other things, not just this agreement. It's amazing to me. They haven't read it, obviously, but they're moralizing how immoral the other side is. I want to know – because the key dilemma is – why are you minimizing this arrangement? Why do you always say it's non-binding that it's irrelevant and so on? On the other hand, you're defending him with all your ticks. It doesn't work together. If it's non-binding, then why are you defending it like that? Mr Cerar went even further in his implementation – unusually he is not here – he said, quote: “This agreement therefore brings in particular commitments to third countries that do not yet have these standards, so for them, in particular for countries of origin, additional obligations that have not been defined at global level so far”. Come on! But now this has ensured that when Slovenians and Slovenians migrate illegally to Guatemala, Eritrea, Iran, they will offer them everything that this agreement offers? Don't blind the Slovenian public. Mr Cerar also said that it was only a political declaration. That's not true. It's the next step. The New York Declaration was the first declaration, now it is the next step and this step will go on as well. We probably all agree on something. We do not need a global agreement for legal migration. For legal, legal migration we do not need a global agreement because they are legal. So the agreement is exclusively for illegal migration, because otherwise there is no explanation. Although it does have a slightly unusual name, which says “a deal on safe, orderly and legal migration”. As I said, for legal migration, everything is already regulated by law. That is why legal migration is also. In fact, this document is about some kind of cooking a frog. First you have the New York Declaration, then you have a global agreement, next time it's a convention. And each of the following agreements refers to the previous one and we are slowly reaching binding international legal standards. We know how to do that. We know how to do that. See what this global agreement itself says in Article 14 about itself. I quote: "We are aware that the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration is an important milestone, but our efforts do not end with it." So it doesn't end, let's move on. It's important. Since you always say it is not important, it is not binding – let's see what it says in Article 6. “Global agreement is a milestone in the history of global dialogue and international cooperation in the field of migration.” It's a milestone! Next: “This agreement concerns migrants and provides a framework for cooperation on all dimensions of migration.” A milestone and a frame. So is it important or not important? Is that why you're defending him? Does this agreement promote migration or does it not promote migration? The one you haven't read is saying he doesn't encourage. We who have read it have some arguments in this document. Something that affects legal security, social security, health security — does it encourage the appeal of the environment to go into this environment, or does it not? Probably. People move into a more attractive environment. And now, if it says here, I quote that this agreement provides "access to legal protection for all migrants, including with easier access, to free or affordable legal advice and assistance from a qualified and independent lawyer" – yes, there is no better. And you're illegally migrating, and you have the right to free, affordable legal advice in your rights. Let's move on. Health care. “Integrating the health needs of migrants into national and local policies and health plans, for example by strengthening the capacity to provide services.” That's a direct commitment. In the next legislative proposals on this basis, you will have to amend legislation. Now all I want to know is, in Slovenia, there are 250,000 people waiting for medical treatment, whether those who come here will be placed on the twenty-thousandth city or across the line. Because if you go to two hundred and fifty thousand cities, you'll get from the UN to violate their right to quick health care. What are you gonna do? So are you going to listen to New York or are you going to line them up? Further: “Training health service providers to provide services taking into account cultural differences in order to promote the physical and mental health of migrants.” That's what it says in there. Now, given what Mr Cerar said earlier about the fact that it applies to countries, especially third countries, does this mean that when a Slovenian woman migrates illegally to Iran when she goes to a doctor, she will be able to dress as she wishes in a mini wing? But how? Does that mean anything? Is that exactly what Mr. Cerar's words are about lying and deceiving? You have the words here. I'm not making them up. There are many such cases, as you know, in this declaration. Now, if I go only to this 12th article, which I think is the most embossing or the purpose of this declaration, because it is contradictory to itself. Article 12 states in the first sentence: “The aim of this agreement is to mitigate the negative factors and structural causes that prevent people from ensuring and maintaining sustainable survival in their countries of origin.” We all agree with that. In the countries of origin, such a condition should be preserved, so as to help maintain such a condition so that they remain there. Not that we're stealing them, engineers and so on, but that they stay there, that the countries develop. Well, we agree with that first sentence. But, look, then this same article speaks of the purpose, which says: “The purpose of the agreement is to reduce the risk and vulnerability faced by migrants at different stages.” Now it's easier for them to migrate out! And the last sentence: “We strive to create favourable conditions so that all migrants can enrich our communities with their personal, economic and social abilities.” That's a direct invitation! And in direct contrast to the first sentence of that article. So in one article, the whole story, which I presented a little bit earlier, is summarized by three different sentences. Let us first officially say that this is to stay there and then tell them: We will guarantee you all the rights you will need in this regard. And third, we need you to strengthen us to increase our numbers. Finally: “The purpose of the agreement is to take advantage of the potential of migration in achieving all sustainable development goals.” We need you for all the objectives of sustainable development. And that is the main nature of this agreement, and you are always looking for some moral reasons, how ugly you are on this side, and we are for human rights. Now I'm just gonna say one more sentence. But remember that sentence: Alle sind willkomman! In 2015 it was pronounced. Do you remember him? It was pronounced by Chancellor Merklov. Is it binding? Is it legally binding? It's not. What was the result? 530 thousand illegal migrants across Slovenian territory. What were they doing? They had a picture of Angela Merkel and this sentence on these leaves. Now imagine that all countries are adopting such an agreement that provides legal certainty, social security, health care and everything Slovenian citizens have to an illegal migrant. He won't have to have a picture of Angela Merkel. He'll have to have a United Nations resolution. Tell me if more will come or less will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Here's the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Logar, I see you've lost Ljubljana in the mayoral elections, haven't you? In any case, I am pleased that Ljubljana remains an open, advanced, free city in the future. The city of hero, where we removed the barbed wire in 1945 and where today there is no room for such ideas as you are spreading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez has the word to prepare Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. When evil is no longer hidden and actually glows, sometimes even in the soybeans, it is the right time to raise the word and not remain silent. This is a basic knowledge that, in fact, in these matters concerning the debate on migration, I have come to the course of my entire political career, which is relatively short because these issues have to be dealt with and identified. What's important is that unfortunately in today's vocabulary of those who talk about migration, let's look at what we've historically observed when we were talking about Jews, today we're talking about Jews, so it's the city that's responsible for everyone who's suddenly responsible for all the evil that's happening to us, and it's very simplistic that makes it possible to paint the world black and white. This black and white painting of the world, of course, had consequences later, and I also drew attention to this when I represented the position of the Group of Members. And there's no way that what happened in the end can justify how it all started. One and the other were wrong. You've never heard anything else from my mouth. But I'm worried about this very beginning, because this very beginning is the one that can allow for this kind of painting. And not only does it allow for such a painting, it can also allow for actions that arise on the basis of this. This is why this question is important to me and, of course, it is symbolically important to me what will happen to the global agreement on safe, controlled and orderly migration – because I think it would be the right translation of what is written there. In fact, if we use the term illegal too quickly, then let go of what we know is that someone must determine this illegality in the process. That is why we have procedures, which is why we have literally reduced the so-called asylum legislation only to procedural rights; in fact, everything else has somehow gone away. So for any social and other matters that are supposed to be in our legislation for those who are supposed to come, or for migrants who are coming, there is certainly no basis in our legislation and is very restrictive in this regard. What was also clear from the entire debate, and in particular from the discussion by the applicant, is that the Communist manifesto knows much better than the General Declaration of Human Rights. That's not what I'm surprised about. But on the other hand, it is important to know that, at least as far as the point of view is concerned, there is nothing in this position that comes from the very text such as the Communist manifesto, but it reflects some understanding of what the general declaration is. We must be aware, as I said before, of the post-war historical circumstances, that the general declaration was not accepted by all, but that it did not say anywhere in it that it was not binding, as in this case, so that such matters do not generally develop in general international law just like that. This requires, on the one hand, the practice of countries and, on the other hand, the legal awareness of what they are doing. Therefore, it is by no means the correct interpretation that this document, i.e. a global agreement, creates a new right to migration. No, it just confirms what every man does anyway. The human rights problem, however, is usually that those who really need them do not have anyone to protect them. And that was the situation after World War II. So Hannah Arendt asked herself that remarkable question: How do we get to the situation that we will have the right to have a right at all? Who will actually ensure this because the existing countries have not done so. And from here the need for a general declaration, from here the universality of rights and so on. Within this universality of rights is already a hidden fundamental limitation of rights – the rights of another are a limitation of my rights. In addition, the global agreement itself highlights what is actually a great deal of concern, and this has been introduced into this text on the proposal of the European Union's position, and it is necessary to respect the legislation of the country where you are a migrant, its traditions, customs. We have all of this within this large text, which is a long text, which actually allows for a framework within which concrete arrangements between countries will have to be made in such a way or otherwise. This is only a framework for cooperation, which includes countries of origin for the first time. The countries of origin, that is, where the whole story begins. Those who know international relations know that the whole story does not necessarily start there, even this has already been mentioned several times today, can also start with such or different European debt to the countries of the so-called world south. What is important to know within this is that this agreement on migration is placed both at the global level and at the European and Slovenian levels within development cooperation or, if you want, not only the Millennium Goals, we will say so, but within the objectives of sustainable development, which, compared to the Millennium Development Goals, bind all countries. Because the problem of sustainable development is global, it cannot be addressed only partially to one or the other. And of course, the United Nations framework is the one that actually makes this possible. In the dictionary of the United Nations, that is, in the dictionary of what can actually be spelled out within such an international negotiating forum as the United Nations, it is an excellent document in the sense that it satisfies everything. In itself, as I said before, it does not create a new right, it speaks of rights and duties, that no one would think that in any other way, it replaces the most likely states in such a way that they cannot work for 180 degrees in contrast to what they would so politically commit to. But what makes possible the minimum common denominator of cooperation is what could potentially prevent unsupervised and unregulated migration. Because this is the main objective which the distinction between categories is supposed to establish. For refugees we know what things are, even though what has been explained today about international refugee law – uh, that would have been a terrible problem in any school that speaks of international law. So things are certainly more complex here than they seem at first sight. Why do not the largest countries such as the United States necessarily participate in such arrangements, and Australia is also mentioned? First, history or history, which is important before we even start talking about the United States as countries of migration or Australia, then we will have to talk about the genocide that happened before that, which has cleared the area. So this is one aspect of what we are not really talking about, but in the current state of anything like this, luckily no longer exists, and I hope that we are all aware enough that we will no longer allow this to anyone on this planet. That's one aspect of the matter. Another aspect of the case was, whenever anything really important has happened in the international community, the largest countries have tried in such or otherwise to exclude it, from the international criminal court up to, we could say, also to regulate climate change, it could — yes, let's say, these two are such, but it is possible to eliminate anti-personnel mines and so on. So, the areas that need to be regulated, but these countries are first included in the whole negotiation, where possible, to divorce the text, and then eventually withdraw from the entire agreement. Since multilateralism, i.e. international regulation at the level of international law or joint regulation of matters, is not in their interest, because such long-term multilateralism can also create legal rules, and legal rules, including international rules, are in the national interest of that country, because it is only in the national interest of this country that they potentially prevent it from taking over power. But if we talk only about power, Slovenia, yes, will be in a very bad position the moment this international and European order breaks out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much. He's got Tina Hefferle's words, get Alice Jeraj ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, all government representatives, Mr. Minister! I'm not going to go into some ideological debate, like some of my predecessors, because today's topic is not like that. The fact is that migration is a complex and global phenomenon, not only in Slovenia and in Europe, but it is a practical problem for the whole of our world. It is precisely because of this nature of the issue that migration needs to be addressed comprehensively and in cooperation with other countries. Slovenia cannot be a soloist here, but the problem of migration must be addressed not only at national level but also at international level, in particular within the European Union. The fact is that, of course, under the assumption that we are a serious country that respects human rights and fundamental freedoms, we are obliged to coordinate policy both on the various aspects of migration and on the protection of borders and asylum policies, including within the framework of the United Nations, to cooperate with countries of origin and transit. So much inspiration and populism has recently been created in our space that citizens and citizens probably do not even know if they have been more concerned themselves with the fact that the last few years, practically since 2006, every two years in one of the African cities has been brought together by the Commissioners of the European Union, i.e. representatives of all the Member States, and representatives of the African countries, where they have drawn up a plan for the next two years in the field of migration cooperation and economic cooperation. It should also be clarified that the Slovenian Government had already attended the Euro-African Conferences on Migration and Development in 2006. Even then, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stressed that Slovenia classified migration as a priority area during its Presidency of the European Union and was working in close cooperation with France as the successor of the then-president of the country to achieve its objectives and actions in the context of development cooperation with Africa. Later, the same then government signed the Euro-African Declaration on Migration and Development on the basis of the pillar of the Rabat Agreement. Just a few months later, in 2007, the then government in Lisbon for Slovenia also signed the Lisbon Declaration as well as the joint African and European Union strategy and the first migration and development action plan for implementation for the period 2008-2010. Later, the then government, on the basis of all these previous actions, has already practically mapped migration policy in some direction. And why is it all of a sudden on the right hand side today so much fear of this Marrakesh declaration? Before a declaration that actually has roots and foundations already in the thinking and conduct of your then government. I think it's really about time we stopped these populisms and intimidation policies and started to give the Slovenian public a real picture of the situation. What is actually written in the Marrakesh Declaration? For example, in the initial explanations and introductory provisions, if I sum up, it is as follows: In reference to the commitments made by the partners in the Rabat process at the Migration Conference in 2006, 2008, 2011, and so on – I do not think it is necessary to stress once again who was in power at that time. It is further stated in the declaration, and I will literally summarise again the entry: “Access on the basis of human rights. Measures will be implemented to contribute to full respect for human rights and the dignity of refugees and migrants regardless of their migrant status." Next: "Special attention will be given to gender equality and the protection of migrants in the European Union, and special attention will be paid to vulnerable groups, including women and children in particular." “More attention is paid to the fight against xenophobia, racism and discrimination.” Next: “Partners will strive to combat these phenomena and promote the balance of reporting on migration and diaspora based on facts and underline their positive contribution to the development of society in countries of origin, transit and target countries.” I don't think we should have any problems with that kind of attitude. Finally, it is disregarded that the declaration also highlights the regional approach and that the text makes a recommendation to take into account the identification, design and implementation of measures that take account of local and regional capacities. Dearly beloved, everything I have just listed is nothing that is not worth a democratic republic and a legal and social state, which I hope our Slovenia is. More than that, all I have just talked about is the democratic, legal and social state's duty to respect, defend and actively support this. The rhetoric we witnessed at the presentation of the position of the SNS Group – I do not want to stress here either the words spoken or the feelings I experienced at the time, because it is below my level, but it points to the level of Mr Jelinčič, but it is worth every conviction. Such rhetoric does not belong to our temple of democracy, and I was frankly ashamed of it at Mr Jelinčič's performance. The President of the Government and other representatives of the Government have repeatedly stressed and we have been able to hear that they have publicly and resolutely said that, with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms – which, by the way, belong to everyone, including migrants, should do so economically, war, climate – the government will do its utmost to ensure the safety of all our citizens and citizens. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't believe them. Therefore, the policy of intimidation that you are trying to convince our citizens and citizens that this aclamation of the Marrakesh declaration in Slovenia will create a state of emergency so that more migrants will come to us – that is to say inappropriate if not otherwise. On Monday, the President of the Government made it clear that the Slovenian police have the situation under control that this Marrakesh declaration does not cause us to lose our sovereignty and that it will not cause any more or less migrants in Slovenia, and that is what Slovenian citizens and citizens need to hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The word has Alice Jeraj, prepare Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. We have already heard several times today that we have already discussed migration issues in 2006. This is 12 years ago, while a lot has happened, even in our lives many things have happened in 12 years, and of course some things have changed since then. As we witnessed the invasion in 2015, a million migrants came from other countries to Europe, it is normal that Europe had to respond and some things were accepted and probably also some declarations and some commitments to be updated and corrected earlier. That's what we've been doing, and we've been fixing our laws. These countries, which have resigned today or in those days since the signing of this global agreement, have also participated in these past agreements, because they wanted their opinion to be taken into account, but today they are assessing that the agreement is too binding on them. And the view of migration is changing, normally, and that's why 13 countries have already announced a withdrawal from signature, only our government insists on this and we don't even ask ourselves why you think they have given up. Probably because the global programme is so "good". Why do you resign? Because you don't agree with some things because they're too binding. And that's what we're talking about. Minister Cerar said this morning, and it also says in the declaration that it brings good and that it means the foundations of prosperity, that it brings something positive. The whole deal only talks about the positive. Now we don't know whether you think we're illiterate or what to say if we read every day about crime that's happening in many countries – Sweden, Finland, Germany too. Germany itself found that migrants were not what they expected to have no education, that 50% of migrants were illiterate; they had nothing to do with them; when they were talking about what this workforce would be like, about scientists, and I don't know what it would be like to talk about. Crime has increased in all these countries. You probably read the same papers we read and read it. The number of rapes has increased significantly. If this is all right, why do all these countries change their asylum laws, the legislation relating to migrants? Everyone is doing it, and we have done it in this House. Probably because the situation is not the same as it was in 2006, when there were 10,000 migrants, but now we have a million or more a year. It is normal to deal with this in a different way and to take different measures. Many of you have talked about families that we received after World War I, World War II — yes, our people in Argentina, Australia, in America have adapted to the situation. Families there have created a new life, learned language, accepted their culture. Today, if you look at the Argentine Slovenes, they have both Argentine songs and Slovenian songs. They kept theirs, but they didn't impose it anywhere. But they made sure of their jobs and so on, and they were families. We've been saying all along that it's necessary to separate the refugees from the migrants. A colleague spoke of a Syrian girl — yes, of course to help her. We have no problem with this, and we have never said that such people who really need help are not helping. But today the news at STA: “In the last days, police officers have detected several cases of illegal border crossings and evading controls. In the area of the Ljubljana Police Administration, six citizens were tracked from Iraq, four citizens from Bangladesh in the area of Maribor, three people from Bangladesh in the area of the New City, and 11 irregular crossings from the state border in the area of Kopra. That's what we're talking about. There is no war in Bangladesh, and the citizens of these countries themselves have come, no family on the run from war. So don't be fooled when you say things like that. Huge as I said, the Slovenians are abroad, and they live there normally. Even those who came to Slovenia after the Balkan wars, some of them survived until the end of the war and went back to their homes, some of them stayed here and today go to Slovenian schools, work in Slovenian companies, speak Slovenian and have no problems with that. And don't judge us as being xenophobic, and I don't know what else we've heard. You also keep talking about the fact that the global agreement is not binding. On each side, right at the beginning of page 6, we have goals and commitments. Commitments. So we're committed. If we vote for this, if we confirm it, we commit ourselves. And someone will ask us, you've committed yourself to doing this, and why you're not doing it. In each of the following, i.e. when they set 23 targets, there are measures for each of them: we commit ourselves to ensuring swift and comprehensive implementation, promoting safe, orderly and legal migration – we are talking again about illegal migration. And hereafter: we commit ourselves to respect for the right to family life — and for our people we are reducing the family benefits now and so on. “We commit ourselves to checking existing employment mechanisms and to ensuring that migrant workers are employed.” We've got a bunch of our people unemployed, no jobs for our people, they're going abroad, and we're going to guarantee all these jobs. And as has been said, the same in the field of health care, in the field of social services. Then we write: “We also commit ourselves to ensuring that migrants who are subject to smuggling are not brought to justice.” It is said that someone who commits a crime will not be punished, we will not punish him, and this is generally the subject of a declaration. Our people in Argentina, if they commit a crime, are being dealt with; or in Canada or anywhere, you mentioned them earlier. Here, however, the declaration states that they will not be held accountable for their actions, or even says that countries should consider sanctions against them and abolish them. So, sanctions for illegal migrants. Yeah, well, then what we do is let them come in, and then it's totally out of the question that someone at the border is waiting for them and they're hunting them there after Kolpa and in the declaration or in this agreement it's written. [[…]] And hereafter: we commit, we commit, we also have here that fully involved migrants contribute more easily to prosperity. Give us the information, since 2015 Europe has a million new migrants every year, how many of them are fully involved. What does that even mean that they're fully involved? We commit ourselves to allow all migrants, irrespective of their status, to enjoy human rights through secure access to basic services. We don't even allow our people to do this, but they are citizens, they have a status, the constitution guarantees them, they pay taxes. Obviously, those with minimum wages will now pay these services for foreigners with low pensions, and for them we do not or do not provide them. Then in the 17th Human Rights Goal, to eliminate all forms, we commit ourselves again, discrimination, condemn expressions, acts, manifestations of racism and so on, and we will do so by adopting, implementing and maintaining legislation in the field of hate crimes and serious crimes against migrants. What about their actions against citizens? What kind of reports do we get? I mentioned Sweden, Finland, all over the crime scene before, and now we will forgive them, but we will be sanctioned if we have an ugly conversation with someone. We probably won't be able to talk, because they'll make sure we're gone, a lot of us. In short, employment for migrants, we fail to employ our people, and we will ensure this for migrants. Someone said things wouldn't cost anything. Look, this is such a claim that I don't know what to say. It's already costing us a lot of money. What only if we have to ensure all these things that are listed here? In short, of course, I don't support the declaration. I estimate it's a long-term death for Slovenia. That is why we are also opposed to this. But I suggest people really read it. I regret that it took so long to get the translation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the word to prepare Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. It took me a few hours to come up with the word to continue where I ended up. I am pleased that some have learned that some things should not be done in the National Assembly. But that's not the subject of today's debate, that's where we're gonna set up somewhere else. Where I ended up, I wanted to say the following. We're talking all the time, basically, like we're gonna decide here at this session about something. We really don't have to make any decisions. And it is therefore clear that this is a provoked session with one clear purpose. The debaters on my left side more or less all in one spirit and a voice explain that they are these preachers, how they told the truth, and if it were not for this session, no one would know anything about anything in Slovenia, what the Marrakesh declaration actually says or a global agreement. To be honest, they deliberately complicate and mention the two agreements they make in one piece. Once they use one, once they use the other, just as they like it, just to satisfy those who want to feed them with this food. The target is clear. But I don't know if it's a good time. But I don't know if the tools in the 21st century are suitable for doing what is done in the way they are done. I was on Monday's committee, which was an interested body and where we discussed the same matter, and then later on Friday I made it very clear that I am not going to label anyone as a Nazi, as a fascist, that I will advertise and advertise every time someone uses these methods. And these methods are constantly used. You know, it was a famous tweet from a popular SDS client, Mr Trump, who spoke very disrespectfully and for a clear purpose, that was on 20 June 2018 when he said it was a flood of people in our country. A flood of people. Of course, soon thereafter an organization came forward to care for history and more than clearly represent what was going on in the Holocaust. In fact, Goebbels used exactly the same sentences. Moreover, the film The Eternal Jew, which speaks of the flood of the people, the people of our land. More or less it was very clear that it was a so-called anti-Semitic film that produced this Nazi propaganda with one clear goal: to tell how terrible these people are, how they do not have a real culture, how they are essentially sick, the virus, insects. Trump also uses all of this in his jargon. And I listened to all this in the National Assembly on the boards. How these people bring disease, how terrible these people are. I heard a little earlier from a colleague who said we'd hire these people instead of ours who are out of jobs. I'm sorry, as far as I know, there are a lot of jobs at the Employment Service that none of the Slovenians or citizens want to do anymore. And they're gone! And we're gonna have to start looking for people from somewhere else! That's what we were afraid of 10, 15 years ago. I am not saying that this mantra of yours is a migrant policy, that we will now bring all the refugees and I do not know what else, and you mention Merklo. Far from it. Not at all. Just don't talk nonsense. And, above all, the untruths. What's ahead today. We have also heard the definition of what our country is and when we have chosen this country and for what purpose. At the very beginning, we have heard again the story and comparison of Rome and how all migrations are essentially destroying all civilizations and that civilizations will be extinct and, above all, ours will be extinct here. Who, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, who of the Members on my right, anyone, tell me by name and surname, said that they do not respect the Republic of Slovenia, that they do not respect culture, that they do not want to continue listening to the Slovenian language? Who's talking about it? Unfortunately, you're always only talking on this side and scaring people that something's going to happen. At a time when these migrations are not as common as we used to be and could be seen in 2015. And that's exactly what we're all fighting against. That's not what's happening. I'm headlessly running. And it's not easy to act like they're gone and it didn't happen! And if you think that – given that we are the Republic of Slovenia and we are fighting to try to be a little more than just one classic, covert country who thinks that the whole world is living with itself and that only around Slovenia – we will solve these problems ourselves, then you're wrong! That is why we have a global agreement, and this is the answer to how to fight or solve this problem, along with the whole world. And if we say the word migration to Slovenians today, everyone has only what they saw in Slovenia. Migration means a lot more! That is why we need this global agreement that talks about all migrations in this world. But no, you go with that famous rhetoric, it's the right time, you have to take away the whole story and use the methods, and I repeat this again, which have been successful in countries where it has given meaning to populism and as a result of this fear, thinking that these people who think that way will protect us. You know, that's how some people thought about Hitler. I'm so sorry. Known sentences, which were also published by our Slovenian newspapers, even initially sold the thesis that they were Reichstag, really burned down by the communists, only three days later they start to report who was actually responsible for the situation. And what happened? Of course, they also sang it in Slovenia as a solver of economic development and what I know what else. Why? For one reason alone — because it was true propaganda because all the instruments used in Goebbels’s way of bringing people into power were appropriate, so that they could carry out their tactics. That's what I was sure would never happen again in the 21st century! All the celebrations that are happening – you talk all the time, we are fighting Nazism, fascism, communism and what I know, what else, we have all the day we are preaching in all of Europe, but in fact we still want to live up to the same standards. I mentioned earlier what Slovenia is, which declarations it has participated in or even accepted these declarations. We did not have any Slovenian translations, but it was the time of the government of Janez Janša. However, Janez Janša never came at the time as Prime Minister and I explained to Parliament what was going on. Never. Today at this point in B, migration — well, that's the topic, isn't it? Yeah, yeah, buddy Irgle, you don't have a word for it, at least this road ain't enough. It's absolutely a kind of alarm. It really saddens me that young people are watching this, and they think that everything we do in the National Assembly is even the right thing to do, that it is a pattern of how we should behave. And this is the message that John Janša speaks of when he asks what kind of message we give to the world. I will ask myself what message we give to our young people with such a way of working. I can't sign it like that. So much lies, so much shame, so much absurdity as we've heard today in these concentrated eight hours, they've been gone for a long time. We still have a lot of debate ahead of us in the coming days, but I'm just wondering what's actually on your agenda, given that I've been predicting a week ago, what's gonna happen next. I now read that Janez Janša had already announced the referendum. That's what it says. We're gonna be dealing with this story for a while. I don't know if this is gonna end well. But it certainly is not in the sound of man and all those values that you keep referring to as Christians, as people, as citizens, as Slovenians, and not least as Members. I would have thought of that. I'm here. But I'm afraid you actually think you're right, and you even believe that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Janez Janša has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much again. In these two minutes, maybe just two things. Let me just say that today is a very interesting day. The alternate Members who have received the least votes are the loudest, the less votes they get, the louder they are. Obviously, there will be a need to change the show a little, or there will be no votes and there will be no alternate mandates. It has been said that we will not decide anything today, from those who have done everything in order to make no decisions today because you have rejected conclusions on your parent’s working body. And then you tell us that we're talking about nothing because we're not going to make any decisions. It's pretty bad. However, it is worth more to answer the claim or to respond more to the claim that nothing is happening, 2015 that we had a crisis and nothing is happening now. If national television doesn't report some things, that doesn't mean they don't happen. Follow other media for a little while, and follow up on reports received by some of the parent work bodies in the National Assembly, while foreign press or foreign media will see that many things are happening. And even the entire period of our generation will be dealing with migration and later, today will not be the end. Not because of us, but because it's an acute problem that will only grow. This year we have recorded, it seems registered, captured, if you want, four times as many illegal border crossings as you did last year. The neighbouring country has returned to us 70 times the number of illegal migrants who have come across Slovenia to Italy and are now returning them to us. The cost of operating the infrastructure involved increases. Right now, the coalition is fighting for 10, 20 million for pensioners and regress. Two coalition parties jumped in their hair, the Prime Minister of the Government as of you hated Donald Trump through Twitter dying coalition partners, a big problem is some 10 million for those who have filled the state cash register for 50 years. However, the increasing costs of illegal migration that should not be incurred is not a problem. But here we are all humanitarian, money is as much as you want, God forbid anyone says anything against it, you're a fascist right now. There have been some debates here, really, across the border, and in the time I have as a candidate, I will answer them.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer are given the floor. The text is delivered by the representative of the Government, Minister of the Interior of Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! As Minister of the Interior, I would also like to inform you from this city that the Slovenian police are currently in control of illegal migration at the border of the Republic of Slovenia with the Republic of Croatia. I also assure you that the police are very well and are responsible for protecting the Schengen border both at border crossings and along the entire border. The Republic of Slovenia has been meeting illegal migration since 2015 and is also in control. I must mention that the police are working with the Slovenian Army on the task of protecting the southern border. Police cooperation with the Slovenian Army is very good, tasks are carried out effectively despite lack of staff both in the Police and in the Slovenian Army. On this occasion, I would like to thank the police and police officers and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the good performance of the protection of our southern border. This year, the Slovenian police dealt with 8,000 400 illegal border crossings until 19 November. The most illegal border crossings were by citizens of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Algeria. The most illegal crossings of the state border were dealt with by the Police Administration of Novo Mesto and the Police Administration of Koper. Police handed 4 000 365 foreigners to neighbouring security authorities, most of them Croatian security authorities, 4 000 245. The transfer of foreigners to Croatian security authorities shall take place smoothly and in accordance with the agreement between the countries. We also note that applicants for international protection abuse asylum and leave their asylum facilities even before the application for international protection is submitted. The abuse of the asylum system occurs in the majority of EU countries exposed to migration flows and we are trying to tackle the problem properly at EU level with Slovenian proposals. The offences of the prohibited border crossing and the territory of the State have also increased significantly this year. Police have been successful in carrying out their operational tasks as they dealt with 232 such crimes this year. We note that the eternal suspects of these crimes are nationals of Slovenia and Croatia, and these crimes are dealt with both by individuals and by various criminal associations. The police, by means of their operational measures, effectively prevent these crimes every day and process the perpetrators in accordance with the law professionally and in accordance with their powers. The Ministry of the Interior is in charge of migration in our country. In recent years, we have been working intensively on illegal migration, as the Republic of Slovenia is a transit country on the Balkan Migration Route. We are also dealing with legal migrations and all the challenges associated with them. We estimate that the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the Global Agreement on Safe, Regulated and Legal Migration is a positive step in strengthening international policy towards migration. At the Ministry of the Interior, we welcome the global agreement, as we expect better management of migration and urgent international cooperation in this area. The Ministry of the Interior and the police will continue to effectively prevent illegal migration, with respect for both national and international legal acts. Within EU countries and other countries, we are working towards effective solutions in the field of migration, and we are also continuing this policy. As Minister of the Interior, I will endeavour to keep Slovenia safe, despite all the security challenges our country faces. I am sure that you will also help me, Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the latest information. The situation is even more dramatic than we heard on the committee last time. 236. If I am not mistaken, dealing with the offences of illegal or illegal smuggling is said to be trafficking in human beings in one year. Imagine how many more things the police haven't discovered because they can't do anything. That's the answer to those who say nothing happens, what happens. Yeah, I guess something's going on. If nothing were to happen, forgive me, in normal times the police are responsible for protecting the border, the minister has just thanked the Slovenian Army for its cooperation in protecting the border. We were the last ones to protect the border with the army in 1991. So, something's obviously going on. Now, to the point. This debate has shown that we have split up into two parts. To those whom we have read and discussed this so-called global agreement on this basis, and to those who first confirmed it, then translated it and now read it from the front. I must say, that is also an achievement. If the meeting had not been convened, the government would have neither translated it nor would you have read it, nor would the ministers have read it. We came here somewhere. But, see, for different countries and for different nations illegal migration is a different problem. For a nation that has 100 million souls or 80 million or 60 million, as we know from history, that is one problem, for a nation that has 2 million souls, that is another problem and needs to be addressed accordingly. As far as the core group of European countries is concerned – this is the term that we have heard a hundred times in the last working body meeting today – I have noticed earlier that we have also found ourselves in this core part of today's European Commission report, where the budget of the Slovenian Government is dealt with critically, as well as with Belgian, Spanish and Portuguese. So, we're also here in a nuclear group of countries. I don't know what budget we haven't seen before. On the question of my fellow Member, who will go to Marrakesh with the acclamation, we have not received an answer, but we hear that the President of the Government does not want, the President of the State does not want, the Foreign Minister does not want, the Minister of the Interior will obviously not go, and some of the ambassadors they have proposed do not want to. If the thing is as good as you say, so positive, so necessary, then I guess one of the key functionaries will go clapping in Marrakech. You obviously know that's not the case, and now that's the problem. Nobody wants to take pictures there. Despite the fact that we have initially given precise information, the debate has reiterated how the European position, the position of the United Nations, is being followed here. Europe does not have a unified view on this issue. A week ago, the debate in the European Parliament, President-in-Office of the Council, Austria, which opposes this, will not be a signatory, she said. Europe has no common position and will not represent and defend it. Above all, it is necessary to respond to claims that nothing has changed since 2006. Of course it's changed. Show me in this act, in this so-called global agreement, a single sentence where the world is working to eradicate poverty, which was then a fundamental objective, because poverty is the main driver of migration, the main motive of these migrations. All of a sudden, it's all gone. We will not eliminate poverty in the countries of origin and the causes of migration, but we will accept it here. The thing came to our head, and once again, don't tell us that in 206 we supported and signed some document that you made in May this year. I mean, we're really not that capable. What else has changed? Migration was a major problem for Australia in 2006, and since then it has been a very big problem for Europe. But you saw for yourself what was happening in 2015, what is happening today. What else has changed? There were more than 200 terrorist attacks in Europe in 2017 alone. Many of those who were performed illegally came to Europe. Many also through Slovenia in this wave, which we say we have mastered so well. What else has changed? In recent years, 85,000 children have died through their proxies because of the war fought by Saudi Arabia and Iran through its proxies. Why is that important? That's why, dear colleagues on the left, because you've been washing Iran's billions of euros at that time, buying weapons that kill children in Yemen. Where is your solidarity here? It is true, we will continue to discuss this subject, and if you are sure of what you have said, you will allow people to read this agreement and ask them for their opinion. Today, we have tabled a proposal for a consultative referendum which the National Assembly can issue with the majority on matters of importance to this country, and of course this issue is important [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-21-SDZ8-Izredna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I note that no one wants to discuss, and this concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and also the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
