ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government! I'm about to proceed with the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Franc Trček, Franc Kramar, Branislav Rajić, Lidija Ivanuša, Samo Bevk and Zvonko Černač. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to the 3rd item of the agenda, allow me to give my thoughts on the European Day of Remembrance to the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. Respected citizens and citizens, dear Members and Members, on this day 79 years ago, 23 August 1939, a non-aggression pact was concluded between Nazi Germany and the former Soviet Union, a pact on the mutual support of the two countries in the occupation of the territories of foreign countries and the pacts that actually pushed the way into World War II. This day, August 23rd, the European Parliament, by a resolution adopted on 2 April 2009, declared as a pan-European Day of Remembrance for the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. We have been following this example since 2010, and we have officially recognised this day in 2012. By this resolution, the European Parliament has strongly and clearly condemned all crimes against humanity and the mass violations of human rights committed by totalitarian and authoritarian regimes – fascism, Nazism and communism. These have committed the worst and unimaginable cruelty of the 20th century and have left behind millions of human sacrifices. Slovenia also suffered. It is the only country in Europe that has suffered the violence of all the three worst totalitarianisms of the 20th century, and has paid all three of them a high price — fascism, Nazism and communism. These have caused Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia many of the woes that we feel and which still burden us today, more than seven decades later. I myself firmly believe that by maintaining the memory of these events and their relevant historical evaluation, we will make it important that something similar will never happen again in the future. Despite these words and commitments, as history has unfortunately shown many times, these things can still happen again. But as it is said, we are the ones who can make a significant contribution by being sensitive and by not being silent at the time of our rejection, but by giving them a loud and firm warning. Education in the spirit of democratic values, education that promotes critical thinking, and that enables the path of maturity to respect values and accept the truth, is certainly important. Dear fellows, we must do everything in our power not to repeat the mistakes of the past. Above all, we, politicians, Members and Members of Parliament, are obliged to work for peace and co-existence. Our citizens and citizens expect a lot from us – and so is because we are all responsible for the state of the spirit in Slovenian society. So I want all of us to be able and able to clear up our past with respect and, above all, to recognize it as it is. To all of us, with this difficult experience, we would no longer be burdened by young generations, but that these tribes would learn about it and learn from it. They taught that they would be able to condemn and recognize everything that was bad and bad. Only then will we be able to build a beautiful future on what is in our nation and our homeland of good. And he's not much. I'm asking you to give a minute of silence to all the victims. / minute silence/ May they rest in peace. Procedurally, Member Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am not surprised, but I am disappointed that you, Mr Tonin, as interim president of the National Assembly, are using this last day of your departure for ideological accounting with your ideological opponents. I strongly protest that the emancipatory ideas of the working class, which have brought together us an eight-year-old worker who has earned us the right to public education, to health care for everyone, are tantamount to the racist terror of the ideologies of fascism and Nazism. Even in our area, after all, the socialists were those who exiled the invader and who led the Slovenian nation along with other Yugoslav peoples into a bright future in which we received an industrial base that had not previously been, in which we received foreign political sovereignty, in short all the acquisitions that the Slovenian political class has been trying to reconcile in the last 25 years. But we all know that this may be a discussion, a controversy about the past, which is aimed at the present, to kill the emancipatory potential of the labour movement here and now, to put his weapon, the idewarming tool, which is the idea of socialism, discredited, placed in an angle and dressed in the same cloak with the crimes of Nazism and fascism. That's something we can't possibly land on in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u3	Mr Kordiš, Slovenia is part of the Free Council, part of the European Union and the European Parliament have just adopted the European Day of Remembrance of the Victims of All Totalitarian and Authoritarian Regimes, and it is also right that the Slovenian Parliament marks these days with respect. We're moving to 3. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures are compatible with the internal market and that they are compatible with the internal market and are compatible with the internal market. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, who carries out the current business, mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have before you the proposal to amend the Framework Decision for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2018 to 2020. The Government proposes to amend the maximum possible level of expenditure on health bills, with the Government assessing that the total amount of expenditure for the sector does not need to be changed, as some other units of the sector of the country show a lower level of expenditure in the first half of this year and thus create the necessary fiscal space, which, inter alia, allows the proposed increase in expenditure on health allowance. The current decree was last amended in autumn 2017 on the basis of last year's macroeconomic forecasts and last year's estimate of the revenues of individual units of the State sector. Actual data on goods operations and public financing in the first half of this year show better results. This spring’s forecast of macroeconomic indicators is also more favourable than in autumn. The decree is a key instrument for the management of public financial policy, which we are preparing under the Fiscal Rule Act. The decision is intended to ensure responsible management of public financial policy towards ensuring long-term stability and sustainability of public finances. For this reason, the law allows certain public financial objectives to change only if the circumstances under which these objectives were set have changed. There is no doubt that this year there have been changed circumstances justifying the proposed action. As I have already mentioned, forecasts of macroeconomic indicators have changed significantly and the realisation of the health treasury income in the first half of this year is more favourable than expected in the autumn of last year. The CFSP expects more revenue to be generated by €35 million by the end of the year than planned. On these expectations, the National Assembly has two lines of action at its disposal. It may decide to maintain the level of the maximum level of healthcare expenditure, which will allow the CFSP to create a surplus this year which it will not be able to spend in this year, but will have to build it into a reserve to cover a smaller volume of revenue in the coming years. However, the National Assembly may decide to raise the maximum level of expenditure on health allowance by a volume of expected higher revenues of €35 million and to allow the CFSP to devote this year to the provision of the necessary health services. This decision allows for the proposed decision. We have a precise procedure in law on how to negotiate and ultimately decide on specific purposes for which additional funds may be spent this year. Already in the process of amending the decree, it has been clear that the funds will be used to provide additional health services in areas where the issue of waiting periods is particularly pressing. A rapid change of the decision is necessary in order for operators to be able to organise the implementation of the increased volume of health programmes and services in a timely manner. The proposed solution does not violate the principle of prudence in the planning of public finances imposed by the Fiscal Rule Act. The Government also points out that the additional fiscal space spent in the health treasury does not represent structural expenditure, but rather is a one-off effect of the elimination of long-term waiting periods. On the basis of data on the semi-annual implementation of the other three public funds, no change in the ceiling of sector expenditure is necessary. Furthermore, the proposed amendment to the decree does not jeopardise the pursuit of the fiscal targets set, i.e. this year's planned surplus of 0.4% of GDP. The fact is that responsible public financial planning is the basis of responsible economic policy of the country. But it's not its purpose either. It should ensure that public funds are used prudently in accordance with the economic power of the State and at the highest level of priorities set. A balanced approach between the objectives pursued is, in this case, particularly for the benefit of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. I therefore propose that the National Assembly support the amendment of the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u5	The motion for a decree was treated by the Joint Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Rudy Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its fourth urgent meeting, on 14 August 2018, the Joint Committee considered as the working body the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decision on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State for the period 2018 to 2020 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the proposal for a decision, the Committee was presented with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the assessment of the Fiscal Council and the Government's written position on the assessment of the Fiscal Council. The Committee also received a proposal for an amendment to the Committee of 13 August 2018. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the Fiscal Council, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service were present at the meeting of the Committee. The introductory supplementary explanation to the motion for a decree was given by the Minister of Finance, who presented the content of the amendments to the draft decree. The decree was made on the basis of economic indicators in September 2017, but since the circumstances have changed significantly, the Government of Health Treasury and the reduction of waiting species may devote more resources. At the same time, the Minister warned that the government was pursuing public financial objectives and that they were not threatened. She said that the legal basis for amending the decision was covered in Article 6 as a whole. She also presented the opinion of the Government on the assessment of the Fiscal Council. In the introduction, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health presented the current situation in specific areas of the health system, where waiting periods are the longest. She said that right now 60,000 people are waiting over the allowed waiting period for health care. It added that the amendment of the Decision would increase the accessibility of health services to insured persons. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion and drew attention to comments on the legal basis, which was better regulated by the amendment, and announced an editorial correction. The President of the Fiscal Council presented a written assessment of the fiscal council, pointing out that this is a matter of public health awareness, but of public money use decision-making. For its use there are rules and laws that must be respected. He pointed out that public money is being spent outside the framework, as there is no information on how to compensate for the increase in healthcare funds in other cash registers. He considered that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was not merely a formality, since the sixth paragraph of Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act was not the legal basis for a proposal to amend the framework. The representative of the Health Insurance Office initially called for a decision to be taken to help reduce waiting lines. In particular, the debate raised issues concerning the disagreement between the Government and the Fiscal Council regarding the real reduction of waiting lines in specific areas and the issue of waiting types for health care in general and whether 35 million euros will be sufficient, as this is a short-term measure. The following have also highlighted the problem of different evaluation of the same health services for different operators and the issue of public health on the one hand and concessionaires on the other. The fact that the funds themselves are not sufficient has also been highlighted, as there is also a need to provide people and equipment for the provision of additional health services. In the debate and at the end, the Minister of Finance and representatives of the Ministry of Health and Health Insurance of Slovenia provided further clarifications. At the time of its consideration, the Committee, in accordance with Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, identified and adopted the following proposal for an amendment to the Committee. In the preamble to the amending Decision on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State’s sectors for the period 2018 to 2020, the words “paragraph 6” are deleted. The proposed amendment follows the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which pointed out that the reference to Article 6(6) of the Fiscal Rule Act as the legal basis for the adoption of the proposed decree is too narrow, since the proposal for a decree is not submitted to the National Assembly in the context of the preparation of a new budget or changes to the State budget. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal and adopted the decree. At the end of the discussion, the Committee also adopted the following conclusions: the Committee proposes that the Government of the State Assembly forward to the meeting of the National Assembly how 35 million euros will be allocated to reduce waiting lines in the health sector. The Joint Committee proposes to the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia that additional funds of EUR 35 million be allocated exclusively to reduce waiting lines and, in concluding the annex, to the general agreement for the contract year 2018, it is expected from all actors to proceed immediately to the preparation of the annex and to provide the possibility of the provision of services as early as October 2018.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the left-wing group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Waiting times in health care are a serious and complex problem, but not an insurmountable one. Their causes are clear — misplanning and lack of funding. The measures for their elimination are also no secret. The ban on the work of doctors in the public sector in the private sector is the first such measure, the increase in resources for the employment of health personnel and the modernisation of health institutions is the second and better staffing planning is the third measure. What's missing in this equation is political will. Since the restoration of capitalism in Slovenia, no coalition has really wanted to cut down on the interests of the medical and insurance lobby and instead promoted the disintegration of public health. Corruption, the flow of public money into private pockets are legalised, the system of so-called amphibians continues to operate smoothly, with 60 million of the 470 million supplementary premiums collected still in the hands of commercial insurance companies, instead of finding a way to strengthen the public health system. Meanwhile, health care is slowly but reliably Americanized, of course those who can pay for the commercial premium insurance, and those who can pay for immediate care are the others waiting. In view of the above, the Government has not done much in leaving and remains a faithful successor of its predecessors; has not abolished supplementary health insurance and has compensated it with a solidarity public tax, although it has entered into a coalition contract, has not stopped the award of concessions and has not prohibited the public sector doctors from doing additional work in the private sector. The change in the ruling that we are considering today is one of the few steps in the right direction – it is modest, but it is the right one. It is clear that these 35 million Euros of waiting species will not be eliminated, and I do not think anyone will say that either. In view of the financial sustainability of the healthcare system, there will certainly be more to it than that. Slovenia is spending only 6.7% of GDP on health, much less than the average of the euro area to 7.1% and significantly less than our northern neighbour, Austria, where these funds are set at 8% of GDP. In Levi, we will support this decree. The increase in funding for the health system must be a priority of this mandate, and if it is to be believed in pre-election promises, this will also happen. Nevertheless, we must ask ourselves whether we are really aware of whether health care is the priority that we as a society must follow at least in practice. At the same time as we are talking about the EUR 35 million to be spent on waiting periods, the country will spend almost once more on buying offensive armoured combat vehicles and in the next 30 years on maintaining them. We're going to get to half a billion euros. For half a billion euros allocated to the health system, it is likely that the urgent and extraordinary meetings should no longer be called due to the waiting times of the health care system, and that the political priority of the commitment to NATO, rather than the commitment to the health of Slovenian citizens and citizens, is still persistent. In short, we support this decree in Levica, and we will continue to follow policies that will allocate additional resources to the health care of Slovenian citizens and citizens, not to the interests of NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u9	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which is Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary! Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister of Health here, but I'm sure she's following us somewhere. In the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, we supported the proposal to amend the decision on the framework for the preparation of the budget on the committee responsible. We have raised a dilemma as to whether we will strictly respect the Fiscal Rules Act or open a public wallet for €35 million to reduce waiting periods. This is where thanks are given to the Slovenian economy, and all those in the real and public sector who care every day about Slovenian citizenship deserve to see this year's yield increase by 35 million in this area. However, the situation of voting on the committee responsible to date has changed, as we have been informed that an analysis of waiting periods has been carried out following the e-ordering system carried out by Dorijan Marušič, Biserka Simčič and Marjan Kuhar, where only 27% – that is, slightly more than a quarter – of all – of the data on waiting periods is credible. Worried. Before final decision-making from the Government, we expect clarifications as to which data on the management of waiting periods are credible. For Christian Democrats we expect that the 35 million surplus that has been accumulated in the health treasury will indeed be used to eliminate waiting species, which have risen dramatically during the ministry of Milojka Kolar Celarc. According to the government, there are 32 thousand 530 patients waiting for a waiting period in dental care, according to the government over the permissible waiting period on orthopaedics waiting for 13 thousand 812 patients, in the field of cardiology and angiology 13 thousand 930 patients and in the field of occult 14 thousand 50 patients, a total of 74 thousand 330 waiting patients over the permissible waiting period, which is a very worrying data. Despite the demands and the decision taken by the Committee on how the estimated EUR 35 million from the surplus will be spent, the Government is not satisfied with its explanation, as it has managed to avoid a specific response. In New Slovenia, we are interested in how the waiting periods will be reduced because we will invest €35 million. We therefore expect a report on the use of these funds in New Slovenia. We expect that the general agreement will be amended so that funds will be allocated to those operators who will actually eliminate waiting periods in dental care, orthopaedics, cardiology and also the occult. Before the final decision on the support of the decree, however, we expect from the Government the answer to which list of management of waiting periods has been used and if the data are reliable, given that the group of experts claims otherwise. In New Slovenia, we have no doubt that waiting periods have increased, as no key measures have been taken to renovate the health system just before the collapse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, for whom Marko Bandelli is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u12	Dear President, thank you. Dear colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, we will support the change in the decree we are discussing today. We understand certain concerns of the Fiscal Council. It's about precedent first. The outgoing government, which is now proposing, at the initiative of the Health Insurance Office, that the estimated €35 million be spent on reducing the unacceptable long waiting lines in health care, in some cases it is indeed setting precedents that are not a good traveller. Today we are talking about the allocation of additional money for the partial regulation of the health situation, which is good, and we welcome this, and a few months ago in the National Assembly we took the money that was already provided for pensions in the budget, to the pensioners, as our President, Alenka Bratušek, also pointed out. However, if that case was a truly eloquent example of how it is not done, since, in order to be able at all to allocate pension funds for something else, we should first adopt the budget balance, today's target of an additional 35 million for health care is not such a case. These funds, such as EUR 35 million, have been received from citizens by the Institute of Health Insurance and it is right that this money is now being spent on them, as it would be right for the money spent on pensioners to be used to raise pensions. According to our assessment, it is also necessary to hear the Fiscal Council's assessment that the government has failed to implement the necessary reforms in the health sector in four years and therefore calls on the government to quote, "to carry out a consistent review of the economic performance of the healthcare system and to take effective action in the relevant areas". In other words, the Fiscal Council is afraid that the money, the 35 million euros we are discussing today, would otherwise be allocated to reduce waiting periods, but that would make the additional money of the waiting period nothing shorter to make the funds disappear again in the system. Although the fear of the Fiscal Council is likely to be justified, this amendment to the decree actually proposed by the Health Insurance Office will be given a green light at the Alenka Bratušek Party. We believe that the Health Insurance Office has considered how to use the funds effectively before asking the Government to release these funds. However, in order for these 35 million euros to be exclusively intended to reduce waiting periods in the health sector, at the initiative of our Group of Members, we have also adopted a Joint Committee decision in which Members of the Ministry of Health have requested that these funds are indeed intended exclusively for this purpose. We have also called on all other actors to do their utmost to enable these additional funds to be used in October. In this story, the National Assembly will perform its role in today's vote. Members of the Alenka Bratusek Party will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Robert Polnar for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The change in the country's budget framework is inevitably linked to the usefulness and relevance of the fiscal rule in Slovenian legislation. The central decision-making dilemma that we need to resolve lies between two different interpretations of general macroeconomic circumstances and specific health conditions in 2018 and the possibility of spending surpluses of institutional units of the state sector, in a specific case of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. The protagonists of categorically opposed positions are executive authorities and the Fiscal Council. If we are to be fair and useful, we must accept the permanent difference between the conventional wisdom enshrined in the fiscal rule and the reality defined by the accounting statement of the six-year operation of the health insurance company. And in the end, what's not surprising is the reality that counts. The reality in politics and the economy is, more than in any other field, a shadow of social and behavioural choices and personal or group monetary advantages. In this place, however, we face an inevitable obvious but universal disregard of the facts, that is that it is impossible to predict the future economic situation in the economy, the transition from good times to recession and vice versa. There are plenty of forecasts, but not solid knowledge. All compete with various combinations of uncertain government activities, with the unknown behaviour of businesses and individuals, including unforeseeable technological development and other innovations, consumer and investor responses. Then there are the different effects of imports and exports, capital movements and the responses of companies, the public and the government to them, so it is too obvious: it cannot be known what is the result of combinations unknown. This has always been a real view of the economic future, and it will always remain that way. The usual wisdom is unstable. It is regularly transformed into something else, possibly the opposite of the previous stage, although its advocates are once again very confident when they impose new legitimacy. In return, we often agree that development policies did not serve the stated objective and were based on bad ideas. We usually claim that bad ideas succeed because they are in the interest of influential groups and that this is undoubtedly happening. That this is happening is something common and happens with surprising consistency. That's the whole point. Bad ideas may not serve the stated objectives, but it is typical that their main architects will prove to be good ideas. Over the past two decades, there have been many experiments in Slovenian economic development that make it difficult to ignore their common denominator. The designers usually do well, and the subjects of the trials are often beaten. The fiscal rule is intended solely for the recessional part of the economic cycle, and what is its usefulness in terms of conversion or the period of the economic cycle? We can see this today, without a comprehensive fiscal esoteric we cannot use these 35 million euros, which represent only a 0.18% share of the country's maximum expenditure for 2018. In the Desus Group we will support the proposed decree. It is right that we do so, today, we do not decide on the use of borrowed foreign savings, but rather on the use of the recorded excess six-year business outcome that has arisen on the basis of the payments made by our debtors. It is also right that this money is intended for the provision of medical services to fellow citizens most in need and waiting for them as long as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible, in all the developments concerning these 35 million euros, to re-register the fact that that famous sentence was more papal than the pope had to actually appear only in Slovenia and nowhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u15	The text is given by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, for which there is a victory for Jelinčič Noblemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u16	Good day to you all! The decision again showed that the government was in violation of rules, laws, agreements, and the Constitution. The fiscal world was on one side, the government was on the other side. The fact is, the government has not been negotiating with the fiscal world, which suggests the incapacity of the government so far, and I fear that this will continue. Here we must resent the government, and in the end the government should draw up a framework for spending these 35 million and have not prepared it. The only thing she said was that this was going to be about reducing waiting lines, which is stupid. This money cannot go to shorten the waiting species, and this money will by no means shorten the waiting species. The waiting types are an organisational problem. This has to be resolved. Not that we're going to give these 35 million probably for migrants, for the supply of migrants, after all, we have to buy 179 thousand shampoos, 179 thousand toothbrushes, 179 thousand toothpastes, 3 thousand bandages of ladies' 10 and 16 in a roll, 2 thousand bags of diapers, then a thousand 200 metal beds and so on – these are the tendering conditions, the procurement conditions that the Government has already put out, and it will probably go a lot of this money here. And the other part of the money, I'm afraid, is going to go to pay for the supplies that are wanted by those who were supplying overpaid supplies to the state to get the money. I'm afraid this will all go away in some insatiable pockets, but it won't go where it's supposed to go. After all, the government is talking about waiting species. At the moment, the biggest problem with Slovenian hospitals is that they do not have air-conditioned spaces. This must be resolved first, not some imaginary waiting line that this money will not save! Because it's not even the purpose of this money and this means to get rid of it, because it's sand in the eyes of all of us. Maybe not to some of you because you already know this, but to others who don't know how they're going to do it, and especially to the public, it's sand in the eyes. Slovenian hospitals have terrible problems. After all, it's just that we're collecting stoppers for surgery, you piece of shit. Asking people to collect money in newspapers is also a mess. Who's to blame? To the greatest extent ever, the government. The new one has not yet been formed, and I hope that the new one will do something else, although I am afraid – I don't think any of this will happen. In short, this change will not reduce the waiting line in any way, but these 35 additional millions of euros may allow better and faster health care for patients, so we will support this decision despite the goats involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u17	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u18	Your Honor! Today, the National Assembly will obviously accept this 35 million for a large majority, probably under the pretext of shortening waiting periods, and you will be able to re-engage the red fat and give yourself recognition on the chest, if you shorten waiting periods, which are a serious problem in Slovenian health, but manageable – but not with such measures that are before us today. If the former and probably the current government were to take serious action, then these waiting periods would be shorter today. If you look at the draft coalition contract, which has been circulating online since yesterday, namely the new coalition contract by Mr Šarc, and if you are reading the health sector, you can see one thing: the previous government, the government of Mira Cerar, has fallen completely on this part, because the text is exactly the same as the parties SMC, SD and Desus signed four years ago, who are also signing the same coalition contract with LMŠ and Levica today. So they didn't do anything and they keep doing it. A small amount of money was spent on reducing waiting times, for those who were in the coalition and you may have forgotten, as well as for new ones: in 2016 the first 8 million were meant to reduce waiting times, according to the answer to my parliamentary question was the realization of about 70%. To the question of why the Minister's answer was, if so, this money was spent in the middle of the current year and the contractors were unable to prepare themselves. These 35 million will also go to the end of the year and operators will not be able to prepare themselves, then 2017 was allocated 16 million euros and by the month of April this year we were still able to review the data collected at the National Institute for Public Health regarding waiting periods, waiting periods and so on. According to the data collected, i.e. in April, it was clear that the waiting period despite that money 2016 and 2017 had not been reduced but that it had been extended. In April, 59,000 people were waiting above the limit for the first review and the other services, representing 37% of all those waiting. Well, as of 25 January 2018, the government decided to devote additional money and again 16 million, sorry, to shorten pending patients over the permissible waiting period on selected health services, and part of the money was for poor 4 thousand 400 operations for functional diagnostics, namely MR, CT, ultrasound and X-ray. Since April, we have been unable or unable to follow the trend of waiting periods publicly. That's not possible. Why? Since the coalition of the former government has adopted the Law on Patient Rights, in which we are of course talking about e-procurement and e-procurement, it removes the old tool to monitor waiting times, this is Time and introduces a new one. And today you can hear that no information is reliable, so we cannot know where the longest waiting period is. Today, Members of Parliament will spend 35 million to shorten waiting periods, because we do not even know where the problem is where the longest waiting periods are. We don't know. Because today all experts involved in this, the National Institute of Public Health, the Medical Chamber, can ask hospitals, do not know where the biggest problem is. And 35 million will be thrown out the window again, not to shorten waiting periods, not for patients, probably for someone else again. And I just remember how difficult it was for some Members to confirm the interim and final report of the Commission of Inquiry when there was evidence on the table of evidence of health corruption. There was a terrible problem back then, and today for 35 million, we don't know where that money's going, but there's no problem. There was no problem with 136 million payments to hospital losers, so the prize for those who lost was 136 million. It was a problem to confirm the final report on corruption in health, once again, and the allegations of crimes. Not a single proposal from the previous government, and I find it difficult to believe that the current proposal to reduce corruption will be a human resources problem, a public network and so on. We'll still be giving money without any effect. Unfortunately, it is in Slovenian medicine that we deal with climate instead of dealing with artificial intelligence, as developed countries do. We will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u19	The text is given by the group of Members, Lista Marjan Šarc, for whom Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u20	Dear President, Minister, Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues! The health department will be our priority, we've set ourselves up on the Marjan Sarca List. Since 2013, the cumulative funding from compulsory insurance contributions has been increasing, but accessibility to health services has been increasing. In the Marjan Šarca Group, we are confident that only the increase in health resources will not bring the desired results, but, above all, the efficiency of spending needs to be increased. According to the OECD data, Slovenia is committed to a comparable percentage of GDP for health, but we must be aware that Slovenia reaches 85% of GDP on average in the European Union. At the same time, we are faced with higher prices for the purchase of medicines, equipment, overpaid infrastructure, and, on the other hand, we have lower salaries and human resources support for health teams in health care. We can therefore conclude that the problem is not just about financing itself. Citizens and citizens who are sick and currently waiting for a vital review or surgery will probably agree to consider the only way to reach timely and quality health care. Relevant political decisions, human resources malnutrition, disagreements in the management of institutions and legislative procedures are of secondary importance at such times. Unfortunately, the current unregulated health situation is slowly moving us away from the desired goal, which is a public, quality and accessible health system for all citizens. In the LMŠ Group, we believe that the reduction of waiting types, rationalisation of business, better organisation and, above all, more efficient management and management of public health institutions should be pursued immediately and decisively. Public and private health care, however, must work hand in hand for the benefit of all. The proposal to amend the decree follows that an excess of €35 million is spent exclusively to reduce waiting lines, and that is why we will not oppose it in the LMŠ Group. However, we will closely monitor the effectiveness of spending this money, which will only be possible in the light of national professional standards and the establishment of a secure and accessible network of health services for the whole country. As we face a lack of medical teams, both doctors and nurses and other health personnel, we are faced with a major challenge in our health care, namely how to keep the professional staff at home. The emphasis must be on ensuring adequate working conditions and rewards for them and for the young staff entering this system. The trend that our educational institutions are increasingly educating personnel abroad is to stop immediately. The gross estimate is that about 10% of graduates go abroad, but if we take into account the fact that the student's price of study amounts to about 50,000 euros, we can conclude that we have an unregulated health system, which unfortunately currently does not allow for personal and professional development. Finally, in the LMŠ Group, we believe that control over the use of funds under this Decision will be an important source for the development of further actions for a comprehensive health reform. As has already been said, we will support the motion for a decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u21	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u22	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal to amend the decree in the framework of the preparation of the state budget for the period 2018-2020, allowing for the surplus of social security contributions paid at an estimated amount of 35 million, these funds have been raised by the insured, so it is all the more important that we give these funds deliberately to reduce waiting lines. Why reduce waiting lines? From the monthly report on waiting periods of the National Institute of Public Health on day 1. 4. 2018 for a first review of 23 selected types of health services and 379 therapeutic and diagnostic services together awaits 157 thousand 485 people. Of this over the limit, as has already been said today, some over 58 thousand people, that is 37.16 percent of all those waiting. Much has been said about the fact that these waiting periods are not entirely realistic. It is also from the review of the longest waiting species on the 15th day. Seven. 2018, for example, it is evident that in terms of the number of people waiting above the allowable period, the most critical specialties in the field of dentistry, orthopaedics, cardiology, occults and so on. The gross domestic product of Slovenia has been increasing since 2014. Even in 2018, relatively high growth is expected, and we insist on social democrats, as we have always said, that economic growth must also be felt by people. Therefore, there is no problem in our Group of Members with this decree. But if we are very rigid, we may really be able to interpret that the proposal for a decree is not in line with the Fiscal Rule Act, but with this change, once again, we are not creating any new expenditure. Simply put, we only spend this money that people have paid with social security contributions. As more money has been paid, we will also make it possible to spend more on specific services, where waiting periods are the longest. This will also allow access to health services. And that's right. We will oversee this in the Group of Social Democrats. We will also follow the position of the Government in our parliamentary group, although it does not agree with the assessment of the Fiscal Council. The Government shall ensure that, despite the proposed new ceiling for expenditure on healthcare for 2018, the principle of caution in the planning and assessment of expenditure and revenue imposed by the Fiscal Rule Act remains consistently followed. The Government also emphasises that the additional fiscal space spent in the health treasury does not represent structural expenditure. It is therefore a matter of one-off effects of the elimination of long-term waiting periods. In the parliamentary group, as I have said several times before, we will support this motion for a decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u23	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Janja Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u24	The decree in the framework of the preparation of the sector's budgets is a central document setting out our public financial framework for the period 2018 to 2020. It is prepared on the basis of the Fiscal Rule Act for the purpose of responsible public financial planning. The decree defines, inter alia, the maximum possible level of expenditure for the state sector and individual cash public funding. The proposed amendment, however, only affects the part relating to the surplus of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia in 2018. The Decision on the framework for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2018 to 2020 was adopted in April 2017 and subsequently amended in September 2017. Both based on the baselines prepared by Umar and the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia for that period. However, the circumstances under which the decree was adopted have changed significantly to date, which is primarily a sign that the government of Mir Cerar led the country in the right direction for four years. Umar, in its spring forecast of economic trends for 2018, predicts that high and wide-based economic growth will continue this year. However, we are also looking forward to a favourable continuation in the coming year. The key reasons for this year's further high growth will continue to be the high growth of exports and investments. With the increase in available income, private consumption growth will continue to accelerate. It is right that the surpluses that we have managed to create are felt by people in the first place, so we want to allow the change in the decree to be used to finance the reduction of waiting periods, as these remain a fundamental challenge for all health stakeholders. The opinion of the Fiscal Council is expected to highlight some concerns that need to be addressed appropriately. The Authority, by its function, seeks to follow the precautionary principle of interfering with the agreed public financial framework and, of course, does not favour the possibility of spending the surpluses of the institutional units of the State sector. However, in its reasoned opinion, the Government notes that there have actually been circumstances justifying an increase in the ceiling on health expenditure. At the same time, the Government clearly and accurately explains that the fiscal consolidation by amending the decree is not threatened and that there is a reasonable expectation that the public financial targets set will be achieved despite this amendment. At the meeting of the home working body, we witnessed a deliberate misunderstanding of the adoption of the further internal acts of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance and their adoption rules, which will allow this change of decision to be implemented in practice. Despite repeated explanations to the representatives of the Institute and the Government on the procedure, the content of the adoption of the annex to the general agreement for 2018. As a result, a decision has been taken to propose to the Government that, until the extraordinary meeting, data be provided on how the surplus of €35 million will be distributed. Let us once again stress that the precise cut will be laid down in the process of partnership negotiations between the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the Ministry of Health, which are not the only stakeholders to agree on this. Therefore, today’s to-millimeter accurate estimates that some want are likely to be premature. Of course, there are clear priorities in which areas and how the funds will be used. For SMC, it is important that this money reaches people, so the intended consumption is focused on the payment of health services at the primary and also at the secondary and tertiary levels where waiting periods are unacceptable. And that's all art. We hope that the government's explanations at the Joint Committee's decision have further strengthened you in the conviction that this decision today must be supported, even though it is not formally the basis for a final decision on the proposal for a decision. Of course, we support the proposal for a decree in the Common SMC of the Member States.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u25	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decree have not been tabled, we are moving on to a vote on the motion for a decree. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. You got a problem? We'll get there. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendment adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised, which means that we can vote. I've noticed that wishes are based on explanations of voice. First of all, I'm asking if anyone would like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. He doesn't want to. Then I give the floor to explain my voice in my own name to Ambassador Lidija Dijak Mirnik. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely greeted! I'll vote in favour. However, I would like to say the following. Since we have heard that this money will only start to be spent in October and it is not necessary that it can also be fully spent, I suggest, and this appeal goes to the Assembly of the Health Insurance Office to devote at least one million of these to the modernisation and installation of air conditioning facilities in the UKC Maribor. We have all been briefed on the press conference convened by the expert director, so I also explain my proposal because it is unacceptable and extremely irresponsible that patients should suffer further in circumstances that are not appropriate. This makes patients subject to additional stress, and the same applies to employees who work under impossible conditions in the UKC Maribor. I therefore propose once again to the Assembly that one million should be dedicated to transferring or renovating and installing air-conditioning facilities to UKC Maribor, immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u27	Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? If he doesn't want to, then we're going to the vote. Please re-check the operation of your voting devices. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 23. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes item 3 of the agenda. We're moving to four. On the agenda, it's on the likes of the vice presidents of the national council. I would like to inform you that the proposals for the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly have been submitted by a group of 52 Members and Members with first-signed Andrei Zabret, who proposes Tina Heferle as Vice-President of the National Assembly, and by a group of 49 Members with first-signed Igor Zorčič, who proposes Monika Gregorčič as Vice-President of the National Assembly, who on 22 August 2018 withdrew his consent to the candidacy, therefore the proposal has become irrelevant. In order to further explain the application, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Group of Members and Members of the six parliamentary groups considers Tina Heferle to be a suitable candidate for the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The law study was completed with the award in 2011 at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, and then continued her career in state administration and later in law. During this time, she conducted a legal examination and a legal examination. In view of its legal education, we believe that it will be easier to interpret the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is the most important property in the work of the meeting of the National Assembly. Tina Heferle is a reliable, calm and responsive person who advocates respectful dialogue, respect for the interlocutor and advocates consistent freedom of speech. For these reasons, we believe that she will be able to justify her trust in this responsible function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u29	Following the presentation of the views of the members of the groups, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Jurij Lepi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, well-respected colleagues, all hailed! Last Friday we crossed the first step on our way to the new left-centred government, for which we took all the time in Desus, which we are extremely happy about. A strong social state is crucial to us, and only the left-wing government can do that. Two months ago, when several different designs of our government appeared, we chose the first of the same, mag. Matthew Tonin, but we did not elect his deputies to facilitate his work, so today we will fix it. We will elect a new Vice-President to allow the smooth functioning of Parliament, as it is a mag. Tonin announced his retreat from the parliamentary overturned throne. And because he's a magician. Tonin likes to commend that the man is a word, we believe he will do it, and he will step down as president of the National Assembly. As we say, today we have a candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, who is also a representative of the younger generation – Mrs Tina Heferle. In one of the interviews, we could read that one of her life’s leaders said: Everything can be done if it wants to. The candidate said that such a sentence describes her will, drive and desire, and, finally, honesty and honesty. We believe that these are the right qualities for such a high position, as well as the fact that the candidate is a lawyer and she is doing the job of a lawyer, certainly benefits. In the Desus Group, we will unanimously support Tina Hefferle as Vice-President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u31	The text is given by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, for which there is a victory for Jelinčič Noblemeniti. He's quitting. Then there is the word of the letter of Marjan Šarc, which is followed by Andre Zabret.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u32	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and all those who accompany today's meeting! Our country is relatively young and in many respects is only strengthening and building a parliamentary tradition, which is also manifesting itself in the work itself. As journalists in the central, highest representative and legislative institution of Slovenia, we can monitor the culture of dialogue, which, according to our assessment, is at least in some cases extremely inappropriate position that the National Assembly should have due to its importance. We therefore undermine all efforts and activities to create a better way of working in this institution in the List of Marjan Šarc. Among other things, the creation and implementation of the ethical code, which we have supported in the initial phase, and which would at least partially allow the treatment of topics in this and all other halls of this building to take place in a more efficient and cultural manner. A broad view, respect for the interlocutors, their work and their personality are crucial in this respect. However, those who conduct this discussion should be able to assess whether the speaker uses his right to freedom of speech in accordance with the rules of procedure and the subject under consideration. Gender, political or any other belief here has no space, consistency, expertise and ability to judge is important. That is why we propose a member of our Member Group, Tina Heferle, for the position of Vice-President of the National Assembly, who, with his knowledge and integrity, will certainly represent the National Assembly effectively in all respects. Its drive, ability, empathy and legal subjugation have ensured that the functioning of this institution can be raised to a new level for the individual community and also for the country that we all represent together. I propose to the National Assembly that candidate Tina Heferle be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u33	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Matjaž Han, for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u34	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, Members and Members will take an important step when we elect a new perfect leadership of the National Assembly. Not only is this crucial for our further work and the challenges ahead of us, but it is also an important message to our citizens and citizens that we have been able to answer the key questions in these two months regarding the new composition of state leadership. So we can finally start with full lungs, strong as you want, with substantive work, so legislative procedures. I am pleased that the list of Ms Tina Heferle, Vice-President of the National Assembly, has proposed. It is right that we also have a female representative in the leadership, because we report that not only in words, but also in actions we support the balance of women in politics. However, Mrs Heferle is a representative of the younger generation, at the same time it is important to encourage the entire younger generation that the policy is open and ready to listen to young people to co-create our better Slovenia. Mrs Tina Heferle will certainly be assisted in the work of the Vice-President by her experience as a lawyer, as well as by legal education, despite the fact that she first entered this Parliament or the parliamentary floor with recent elections. More than that, unburdened with old stories can be an advantage in running a national council. The Group of Social Democrats will unanimously support Mrs Heferle as President of the National Assembly. The client and I both wish her well.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u35	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Gregor Perič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u36	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the SMC Group of Members, we will support Ms Tina Heferle, candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly. We believe that Mrs Tina Heferle, as a university-graduate lawyer, will quickly acquire knowledge of the procedures and functioning of the National Assembly, and that she will be successful and committed to her work. We believe that it will have a consistent and responsible attitude towards challenging leadership tasks in the National Assembly, while at the same time demonstrating that it has very good expertise and many lessons already learned that will help to manage effectively the tasks that the Vice-President or Vice-President of the National Assembly has. Otherwise, in the SMC Group, we are pleased that a woman is proposed as a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, as we are very much committed to having more women in the leadership positions of various state institutions. We are confident that the proposed candidate will lead our assembly professionally and that this will bring confidence to Members and Members from all parliamentary groups. For these reasons, we will unanimously support Ms Tina Heferle, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u37	The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! A good two months after Mr Tonin's appointment as President of Parliament with a total of 80 votes of support, the day of his replacement began. The appointment of the Vice-President of the National Assembly is clearly a basic condition for this to happen. In Levi, of course, we do not hide the satisfaction of leaving the current president, who advocates Americanisation of health care and an even faster sale of state property, which, like in 2004-2008, would again lower taxes during the conjuncture to expect the crisis with empty cash registers; which also raises questions as to whether even the right to abortion; who advocates the survival of the neoliberal concepts of the European periphery, where such policies force us. Mr Tonin's appointment as President of the National Assembly was the announcement of the Central Coalition's establishment to the right, away or away from the will of the electorate. On 3 June, the majority of the elections rejected right-wing projects, with a large majority electing central and left, thereby expressing the expectation that the policy will work towards the preservation and strengthening of the social state, better public health, education, housing policy, environmental protection, more money for science, development and culture. And although people with central and left beliefs have elected 52 Members, until recently it has indicated that at least the right hand will be involved in the government, and Matthew Tonin has done everything in his position to ensure that the mandate holder does not become Mr Šarec, but, of course, perhaps someone from the right, Mr Janša, for example. And I'd probably do it if Levica didn't offer the middle five project cooperation. Despite this persistent assertion and proof that Levica is a coalition party coming from the mouth of the current President of the National Assembly, and the status of the net opposition in order to deserve or deserve only the right parties, he has been able to prove during his presidency that he is the one who is part of the leading establishment, part of the ruling privileged political class, who takes care of himself and for himself, regardless of his status and regardless of his attitude to the government. Mr Tonin, from the first day he took office, tried to raise salaries and privileges for Members until the very last day, and on the other hand, he forgot about the worst paid in the National Assembly. His proposals and initiatives, which he has tried to raise to life in every way, include a general raise in salaries, an increase in the minimum net salary allowance of EUR 300, a more favourable calculation of travel costs, which is an exception to the public sector, and additional subsidies for rents of sent-away apartments. This would absolve some Members of Parliament of the entire cost for these already so low or, we could say, even ridiculous rents. In addition, together with the SDS, it is working to reform the way political parties are financed, which would allow the financing of political parties by private capital. Mr Interim President, the opposition is a practice, a practice that does not mean you are always against it, but means that you are not always automatically present with it, that you raise your voice when you decide that it is wrong to take harmful measures for the sake of partial interests or political cohesion. In its cooperation agreement with the future minority government, the Left committed itself to supporting the mandate-holder and the President of the National Assembly. And the government's projects will be reviewed by the Left through the prism of our program. The emerging minority government already knows that Levica will not receive support for measures that would result in the privatisation of both public property and other areas, the reduction of employees' rights or the increase of chastity, the restriction of human rights and freedoms, higher spending on defence or the reduction of environmental standards. All of this is clearly defined in the agreement between the opposition party Levica and parties forming a minority government, irrespective of such or other legal opinions. The Left will maintain its opposition stance and demonstrate it as long as the policy of interest in capital and foreign power centres is put ahead of people's interests. If I draw the line, Mr Tonin, as has been the case so far, writing environmental legislation according to the taste of this or that investor, violating the rights of employees, rejuvenation of the social state or restricting human rights will not be resisted by yours, but by our left opposition. But since this is a festive moment in two aspects and because we are talking about the candidacy or election of Vice-President, future Vice-President of the National Assembly, I am expressing my support for the Left of Mrs Tina Heferle and we are also predicting that we will support her appointment in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u39	Procedural. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I regret that today, today, August 23rd, when the day of the pan-European memory of the victims of all totalitarian systems is present, there is an hate speech in the Slovenian Parliament. This is a school case of hate speech, just a step towards the liquidation of our colleague and the President of the National Assembly. I expect that the coalition that is forming, which I wish her all happiness, will also come forward and say that the end of such an enemy speech in the National Assembly is over. We are here to defend European values, traditional Slovenian values, some of which are driven out of this Parliament. We believe that Europe is a project of peace, if someone is not for Europe, we cannot help him. As for what Levi is constantly accusing our President, the President of New Slovenia and still the President of the National Assembly of not knowing what he has done about wages and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, the Slovenian public, all this has been agreed at the level of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, is indeed behind closed doors. And it wasn't Comrade Tonin, President, the one who initiated these things was someone else, but you wouldn't know my name because there was a council behind closed doors, everything he was doing was doing in good faith, properly and once again, and a hundred times in agreement with all the leaders of the sent groups. I wish to this day so much more that we would no longer be witnesses to such accusations, such a low-level vocabulary and hate speech on the part of the Left, today we have listened to it at least twice, and I believe that we will still be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u41	I have two procedural applications, first Member Natasha Sukić, and then Member Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u42	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. Look, I already warned you at the previous session, I asked you, the president, to replace the hate speech when there were speeches about calling on citizens and citizens to arm themselves, and then you told Members Tomic, who mentioned this again in her debate, that it was freedom of speech. Today, in the position expressed by my comrade Vatovec, I have not observed xenophobia or racism, nor the call for hatred of any minority, so not to interfere or exceed the limits that define hate speech, for I think we will have to seriously forget in this national assembly the question and the distinction between freedom of speech and what hate speech is. A hate speech is when you reach out to the freedom of another and threaten his whole life. That wasn't the case today. It was the last time, but you defended the definition on your head, just like Ambassador Joseph Horvat had just turned it on his head again. That's what I'd have to say for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u43	I did not recognise the procedural proposal and therefore it was an abuse of the procedural proposal. The word has been given by Ambassador Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Hand likes to mention school cases, but the only case is those who should go back to school. Unless it's to teach them what hate speech is and what hate speech isn't. Just a hard parliamentary right is the bearer of an enemy speech with us, but God forbid that any such person sees them, and then hides this hateful attitude, of course by aggressive attack on the left bench, that whenever someone puts himself on the right side of the block, it's an hate speech, and then they're already bending that definition of themselves in some way to fall into the frames of the hate speech that suits them. What exactly is the hate speech that this hate speech carries out? I have a friend named Natasha Sukić in front of me, and you can go to school with her. Otherwise, you also have each of your plates, each of your phones, each of your computers, you choose to Google. If you want a procedural proposal. The chairman of my procedural proposal is that, with such difficult frameworks as hate speech, we do not make it easy, but we do so only when the place where the enemy speech actually occurs is persecuted, not capriciously, on the basis of an ideal political agenda of one, two Members, Members or political parties, where and when it suits them. Let's be concrete!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u45	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The text is by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. He's quitting. Then he is the last discusser, Member of Dr Darius Krajčič. He's quitting, too. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, where the representative of the proposalr, Aljaž Kovacič, gets the floor. He's quitting, too. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the floor because the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss it on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Assembly shall act by secret ballot on the election of the Vice-President. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The leaders of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the committee who run the vote, namely: Franz Breznik for the SDS Group, Andreja Zabret for the LMŠ Group, Janja Slug for the SMC Group and Blaž Pavlin for the NSi Group. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal for a commission? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Please check the operation of your voting devices. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 1. (The vote was 63.)(against 1.) I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Chamber shall be served to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a candidate for the Vice-President will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. All other expert members of the parliamentary groups, who are currently in the Chamber, may I ask that you leave the Chamber at the time of the vote. Let's also empty the balcony. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 11 and 40 minutes and will last until 11 and 55 minutes. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament and Members to assist me to meet again in room 217. I interrupt the 2nd item of the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 12 noon and 10 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.32 and resumed at 12.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-23-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u46	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the 4th item of the agenda, which is the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. The minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of Tina Heferla as Vice-President of the National Assembly are as follows. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 23 August 2018. 83 ballots were distributed, 83 votes were cast, 9 votes were invalid, 74 votes were valid. 66 Members and Members voted against by 8 Members and Members. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Tina Heferle was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members. Honest congratulations! / applause/ The newly elected Vice-President of the National Assembly, Tina Hefferle, of course, I congratulate her and wish her well in her duties. But since this is also my last meeting of the National Assembly, which I led, I really thank you for everything. It was a great honor for me to serve as president of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. / applause/ I hereby conclude the 4th item of the agenda and the 5th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly will begin at 12.45 p.m. The meeting was closed on 23 August 2018 at 12.12.
