ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I am opening the 64th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 16:00 on, Mrs Vojak Šergan until 14:00, Dr Jasna Murgel, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Mrs Ludmila Novak from 12 o'clock on, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar until 15.30, Mr Jan Škoberne, Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Jože Tanko, Dr Bojan Dobovšek, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, Mr Marijan Dolinšek from 13:00 on, Mr Igor Zorčič, Mr Franc Laj, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Tomaž Gantar from 2 p.m. on, Mr Primož Hainz from 6 p.m. on, Mr Peter Wilphan from 2 p.m., Mr. Uroš Prikl, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, Dr. Franc Trček, Miha Kordiš, Luka Moon, Dr. Vinko Gorenak by 5 p.m., mag. Alexander Kavčič from 2 p.m. and Mr Saša Tabaković from 12 p.m. to 14 p.m. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 64th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 18 May 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] It's not working. I'm breaking up. Check again, please. It's working. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, all of whom unanimously confirmed the agenda. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 64th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to exceptional proportions in the area of child health with congenital heart defects in Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 24 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tank, the first to sign. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I would first like to give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mrs Jelki Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u2	Dearly beloved, all who accompany the session! In the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia, we have repeatedly proposed extraordinary meetings of the Committee on Health or the National Assembly. In fact, the state of Slovenian health has changed or worsened in the last four years to the point of escalating various problems from day to day, and in recent days it has escalated definitively or the emergency situation in the treatment of children with congenital heart failures has finally been revealed. So today you have before you a proposal for a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the emergency situation in the treatment of children with congenital heart failure. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc has claimed for four years that health care is on the road that will improve public health, which will improve health care for all patients, for all citizens. The President of the Cerar Government supported her because she was expected to implement two-thirds of the health reform. The SDS and Desus supported it because they respected the coalition contract, which should state that they would not destroy ministries or governments among themselves, so not because they would support patients. But the coalition contract also states that they will arrange for a very sung public health care so that it will be good for patients, that there will be no waiting hours, that there will be a situation in the workplace for doctors, nurses and other professional staff. At the last interview, Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc said: “I work well, I work best so far from all ministers because I care for patients, yes, I do.” All this and the ignorance of the Ministry, the Prime Minister of the Government, and coalition parties have led to the complete collapse of the health care of our youngest patients, children with congenital heart failures. This area covers several departments or clinics at UKC Ljubljana today, namely the child first examines the cardiac cardiologist, then, if necessary, follows surgery in surgeons, then care at the intensity, pediatrics and so on. All of this is gone in Slovenia today. Why not? Because children’s surgeons left first, in February 2018, and recently Slovenian cardiologists. So, as has already been said on the Health Committee, and as we are listening today by the professional public, the Medical Chamber, the doctors, it is a national problem. Why, once again, a national problem? Because in Slovenia we no longer have or have them, but they do not work in UKC Ljubljana or there they no longer want to work, children's cardiologists, child surgeons and intensity. If this is a national problem, then we expected, both the public and members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of New Slovenia, that the coalition would say something about the government's response, that it would be clear to the public how to proceed, that we would not listen again to the promises made to us as early as 2015, when we first addressed this area in the Health Committee, through the international report on child heart surgery. It was already said or warned that the irregular situation in this area was in place, that the programme in Slovenia could be terminated, but that we were then assured, both by the Ministry and UKC Ljubljana, that the situation controlled that patients were not in danger and that the programme was good and that it was going forward, from 2013, when a new programme was set up in the UKC or a new programme was launched. 2016, 2017, we were again faced with unloving events in this area, we called back a meeting and we heard again from the Ministry: “The programme is working, there is no fear of new doctors leaving, there is no fear that patients would not be provided.” A few days ago came the final shock or denial of all the words we heard from the Government by the Ministry and UKC Ljubljana. Children’s cardiologists have therefore gone away, but it should be noted that this is not just an operational part, that it is also a non-surgery part, that it is also an ultrasound diagnostic, where parents say it should wait up to two months, where experts are expected to leave this area, according to UKC Ljubljana. So, who's gonna solve the emergency? Who's going to do the ambulance checks? Who will perform those emergency cases of heart rhythm disorder, heart failure? After all, who will transfer the knowledge from this field to young experts? So you promised solutions, both in the coalition and in the Ministry and Government, you promised a new national institution that would start operating on May 1st, and it wasn't May 1st, not June 1st, and now it's supposed to be the last date on July 1st. The Institute should already have a director, it should already have a board of institutions, premises should be provided, financial resources from the budget should be provided and nowhere to be found, and the big question is where are the staff, who will be working at the National Institute for the Treatment of Children with Cardiac Mistakes. We didn't get an answer to that last time on the board. When we wanted to clarify this issue, they were invited, i.e. representatives of UKC Ljubljana, simply sent home, if we don't need them anymore and let them go. All doctors, i.e. cardiologists who have now resigned, have a 60-day notice period, are supposed to be working normally at this time, and then the institute will start working again and again, with which personnel, which surgeons, which cardiologists, and who will be working on the intensity, who will be working the ambulance, who will be working emergency cases. Today the children are written on the results to stabilize the heart first at the nearest emergency centre, then send it to Ljubljana to a certain doctor, say Mr. Vesel, Dr. Podnar, and so on. Today these doctors will be gone, or 60 days from now. Parents ask who then. Foreign doctors, two cardiologists from Croatia, are supposed to be in control of the whole of Croatia and now the whole of Slovenia. How long will you be in Ljubljana? So far, two foreign surgeons have been operating – they were, say, two to three days in Ljubljana, doing several surgeries a day and then leaving. How things are going to go now. Similarly, two doctors from Croatia, something from the Czech Republic and no answers. That is why the National Institute is at great risk of its functioning, but obviously not, as has been the case with health care in this Government, but there is no solution to such material problems. So more things, more questions we want answers to today too. The question is, therefore, how will child heart surgery, cardio surgery continue to work, who and where young people will be educated, and when and how the Government has foreseen appropriate measures to keep these young doctors in Ljubljana or Slovenia, to provide children's heart surgery, to prevent this program from being closed or not completely closed in UKC Ljubljana. So where will our youngest doctors be treated? Although you had the entire mandate only on paper, in promises that people should not worry, but health care today is in such a cramp that it has, of course, escalated as I said, in several areas and it is most sad that things have escalated most precisely in the treatment of the youngest patients. So health is what this government fell on, regardless of whether you did not support both the two interpretations proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and health is what the Government will in fact have to do a lot. And I believe that there will be no more coalition parties in this government that have led this health care to total destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u3	In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mrs Ivi Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u4	Your Honor! New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we cosign an extraordinary meeting on the emergency situation in the treatment of children with congenital heart failures in Slovenia. Christian Democrats have been alerted to this pressing issue almost six years ago where we have come to know the catastrophic situation in the heart surgery department. We were mainly surprised at the level of mutual relations between doctors. Otherwise, the problem has been more than a decade ago. When it was found in 2012 that the program in UKC Ljubljana under the guidance of a foreign surgeon did not produce expectations and results, it was time for radical changes that did not happen. In 2014, ten pediatricians signed an objection to the conscience, as confirmed by the Medical Ethics Commission, since the UKC leadership was unable to resolve the impossible situations. This was the reason that the Ministry of Health ordered the Medical Chamber to evaluate the children’s heart surgery programme as an independent expert committee. On 9 July 2015, the Medical Chamber published an assessment report for the period 2007 to 2014 for the activity of cardiac surgery in UKC Ljubljana. This is a basic document that is supposed to be used to regulate the situation in child heart surgery. The report exposes shortcomings in professional culture or relationships. The UKC has spent more than €30 000 on mediation between employees over the last two years. As stated by the President of the Medical Chamber in his press release yesterday, the International Commission has concluded its recommendations with the point of stability of child heart surgery services, quote: "It is extremely important that before the adoption of a proposal for any major change in the organisation of child heart surgery, an impact and risk assessment is carried out and examined into future service stability." However, child heart surgery in UKC Ljubljana is and remains a national problem. I'm sure there's only one thing that hasn't been taken responsibility so far. On Friday’s Health Committee, the State Secretary, Dr. Medved, stated: “The program for children with congenital heart failure in UKC Ljubljana is currently running safely and continuously.” This is a press release on May 10th. How can it be that it is the same profession, the Medical Chamber, only a few days later in the press release, states that they are also concerned about the operation of the pediatric clinic as a whole, the pediatric clinic as a whole. Doctors have, of course, resigned and will, of course, take care of patients during the cancellation period. In the meantime, UKC management is looking for a solution. Of course, none of the recommendations made by our proposers were adopted on the Committee. Minister Kolarjev, who, with the support of the Prime Minister of the Government, has managed to await the end of her term of office, can only mention as her only success the fact that she has maintained this position while the waiting line in health has nearly tripled. We hope that the situation will be resolved and that the first extraordinary meeting of the new reference will no longer be intended for children’s heart surgery.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u5	The proposal for a recommendation is 18. 5. 2018 discussed by the Health Committee. As the Committee did not adopt the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. At its 45th emergency meeting, the Health Committee considered the proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the emergency situation in the treatment of children with congenital heart failures in Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, which was also published. 5. on the website of the National Assembly. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and then, on behalf of the proposaler, Mrs Jelka Godec presented the reasons for the urgent meeting of the Health Committee. She stressed that the purpose of the meeting was to clarify the situation in the field of treatment of children with congenital heart failure. It also drew attention to the poor public health and action situation, which has been inadequate and ineffective in the past. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service presented by Dr Katja Triller Vrtovec. The representative of the Ministry of Health, State Secretary, Dr Ana Medved stressed that a program for children with congenital heart failures is being carried out in UKC Ljubljana safely and continuously. All cardiologists remain in their posts and have a two-month notice period within which they are obliged to provide medical assistance. Management of UKC Ljubljana to seek solutions to replace outgoing doctors, and in the medium and long term, the Government, together with external experts, is setting up a new public health institution, the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases, which will be based on a different way of operating and treating children. The Director-General of UKC Ljubljana, Mr Aleš Šabeder, pointed out in his debate that the problems in the children's heart surgery programme are large, national, and management has been working with them since the start of the mandate. The arrival of foreign experts to help bridge the current staffing problems caused by the resignation of three child cardiologists is only a temporary but not an optimal solution. In the long term, the whole department will need to be based on a new one with its own experts. In his view, problems in the field of child heart surgery also arise from the monopolistic positions of certain physicians who, at the same time, require work under contracts for higher amounts. Such problems also arise in many other areas. In addition, Professor Mirta Koželj, Head of Cardiology, and Prof. Matjaž Veselko, Professional Director of the Surgery Clinic and Head of the Clinical Department for Child Heart Surgery and Intensive Therapy gave their views on the developments in the area under consideration. In the debate, the members of the committee were satisfied with the information provided by representatives of UKC Ljubljana, the Department of Child Heart Surgery needs to be re-established, although the movements will be difficult, but they are necessary, and we were on the committee with a kind of unified opinion. According to some members of the Committee, the problems in the field of cardiac surgery have also been caused by doctors themselves. However, due to the lack of experts in specific areas of potential focal points in Slovenian health care is relatively large. In accordance with Articles 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the proposal for a recommendation together and did not adopt it. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it was concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the emergency situation in the treatment of children with congenital heart failures in Slovenia on the home working body had been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u7	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr Anji Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u8	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished guests. I will also be brief in this address, as I was at the Committee of the National Health Council on Friday. Why? We are currently in a period where we need to work in particular and to discuss as little as possible. That's why I'm going to repeat the facts. The program for children with congenital heart failures in UKC Ljubljana is conducted safely and continuously. This is a public message immediately after the doctors announced their departure on May 10th. Prof. Mirta Koželj, Head of Cardiology of the Pediatric Clinic Ljubljana, said that all cardiologists remain in their positions within their two-month notice. During this period, they were obliged under the Health Act and the Medical Services Act to provide continuous health care and emergency care. This is how ambulances work, operational procedures are carried out according to the scheduled schedule, and children are ordered for examinations. In the waiting line for interventions currently waiting for about 10 children. The management of UKC Ljubljana has kept the public informed of its efforts to find solutions to replace outgoing doctors. He signed a contract with five children's Intensive Croatians, two of which are also intervention cardiologists. They also agreed to cooperate with the Czech intervention cardiologist to carry out emergency interventions. In UKC Ljubljana, everyone will start working together next month. It's from June 1st. In the field of surgery, there is currently cooperation with six surgeons from Motol Prague University Hospital, for which all contracts have already been signed. These contracts also contain a 24-hour emergency response clause. In addition, the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana is in cooperation arrangements with two other doctors from other Slovenian institutions and two other cardiologists from abroad are coming to discuss cooperation. On Friday, the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana explained to the members of the Committee of the National Health Council that the arrival of foreign experts to help bridge the current staffing problems, which have been further created by the recent resignation of three Slovenian children's cardiologists, is only a short-term solution and is not optimal. In the long run, it will be necessary to build the entire department on a new one with its own experts. In UKC Ljubljana they also have a continuous communication path with parents, they are daily in contact with an average of five parents. At the initiative of management, individual Members also looked at the spaces of the Paediatric Clinic. The program for the treatment of children with heart disease in the children's surgery department of the surgical clinic and in the cardiology service of the pediatric clinic of the University Clinical Centre was also introduced to the UKC Ljubljana Patients' Council on Thursday last week. Members of the Council fully supported the efforts of the profession and management of UKC Ljubljana to regulate the situation in these departments, assessed that the presented plan is in line with the ciliium to ensure the professional and safe treatment of children and to establish an active dialogue between parents and doctors. I have yet to further explain to you here that transports by medical aircraft have already been arranged and fled. Currently, for the purposes of emergency transport, critical patients, i.e. adults and children, are implementing for UKC Ljubljana an international carrier Global Assistance Prague. This job within 24 hours comes to pick up the baby and brings him to a foreign center with his team. This is a medical aircraft which is fully equipped for the transport of critical patients, i.e. has adequate gas supply, suitable transport beds and other equipment. It is operated by an appropriate team of health personnel offering all necessary medical services to patients during transport. All costs of transport to foreign clinics if treatment abroad is indicated, i.e. medical flight costs are also borne by the health insurance institution. The average cost of such transport ranges between €8,000 and €10,000. So, once again, the content of the treatment of children has not changed at present in UKC Ljubljana. Now we're going to point two. At the end of December last year, exactly 21.12.2017, the government set up a national institute for children's heart disease. Why? Since we have been together with the professionals, representatives of parents and management of UKC Ljubljana have been united that problems with the program of children with congenital heart failures have been dragging for more than a decade and have failed to solve any management of UKC Ljubljana. They were not rescued by the above-mentioned failed mediation between employees, which lasted for two years. Her findings were as follows. Human relations have been poor, and there has been no transfer of vital professional information on patients between doctors, which is essential for the safe and quality treatment of patients. My parents' trust was broken. As a result, both doctors and nurses and other staff left the department. So we need to start building a house on new foundations. For this reason, we entrusted the activities for the establishment of a new centre after professional pay with the experience of Prof. Dr. Igor Gregorič, who already has experience in establishing new centres. When establishing a national institute for children's heart disease, the competent authorities cooperate with the management of UKC Ljubljana as it is a matter of close interlocking of activities. At the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease, all professional groups will be permanently employed in the different proportions necessary for the quality and safety of diagnosis and treatment of children and adults with congenital heart failures as well as children with residual heart disease. The continued availability of the first foreign cardiologist and cardio surgeon, including, where appropriate, an intensive therapy consultant, will be ensured, which means, in addition to ensuring the safety of the provision of services, greater availability of the free capacity of key human resources. The important task of foreign experts will also be the continuous training of local doctors and other professional groups. What is the chronology and what are the activities of the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases? As was said, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia established this institute on 21 December last year. In accordance with the Act of Establishment, the NJOSB [[?]] entered in the Court Register on 5 March 2018. The NJOSB Public Health Institute will start operating no later than 1. This Decision shall be published The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 10. Maja also appointed her representatives in the world of the National Institute, this is Prof. Dr. Igor Gregorič, who heads preparations for the establishment of the National Institute, the extraordinary Professor Andrej Robida, who also actively participates in the preparations for the establishment, and Tina Jamšek, Head of the Health Care Sector at the Ministry of Health. Therefore, premises within the framework of UKC Ljubljana are selected, spatial plans are prepared with investment assessments for the regulation of premises and installations, equipment is required, upgrading activities and adjustments of the information system are carried out both to carry out basic health activities and to carry out support processes. There is also a work programme under which arrangements are under way with the health insurance company for the contractual relationship and financing of activities. The draft financial plan for 2018 and the reserved budgetary resources, which are, of course, additionally necessary for the payment of the presence of foreign experts and the provision of continuous education for Slovenian health workers, are also prepared. The following documents are prepared for the National Institute: status, act on the systemisation of jobs and on the proper organisation, powers, powers and responsibilities at the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases, which is expected to be adopted and confirmed at the Constitutional Council meeting of the Institute tomorrow. Upon the appointment of the members of the board of the institution, the institution shall be in preparation for the formation of a management body with reference to the establishment meeting. [[Incomprehensible]] At the same time, intensive discussions and day-to-day arrangements are being held with domestic and foreign health workers who will work at the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases and also arrangements with foreign reference centres to provide professional support. So let me get this straight. UKC Ljubljana provides safe treatment of children with congenital heart failures. The government is setting up a new centre with the assistance of the previously appointed. Let me point out that we all work together well. Nevertheless, we should all be aware that by spreading false information, individuals are doing harm in the first place to parents who are causing unnecessary fear and mistrust. Health professionals and, last but not least, UKV Ljubljana management, which has to deal with unnecessary media dissemination of passions, are therefore experiencing severe difficulties in carrying out the necessary rapid actions to balance the situation. So, I call on all Members to allow those responsible for the programme for children with congenital heart failures to do their work professionally, conscientiously, responsibly, primarily in peace. They should be judged by the results of the work, not by the media and political lynx. And here, I must admit that I agree with all those who call on politics not to interfere in professional matters, not at all in the pre-election time. Finally, I would like to highlight something else. If it were to take place in the extreme phase, the activities in the Republic of Slovenia would be discontinued, in accordance with the Health and Health Insurance Act, all children who will be assigned to treatment abroad as they have so far received [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u9	A little peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u10	get their services and the law provides for a 100 per cent coverage of these costs. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u11	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u12	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. At the time of her term of office, Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc stated that a comprehensive change of the health system was urgently needed in Slovenia. She stressed that changes were needed because of the various factors and that sufficient resources were needed for health care if all citizens were to have equal, safe and immediate access to health services. All the work and events we have witnessed in health care do not follow the words spoken in September 2014 and its words were more than apparently empty words. A poor relationship in the treatment of children with congenital heart failures and an irregular situation in the pediatrics department of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana is also expected to result in the death of a minor patient, the departure of doctors from the department and the possible definitive termination of the treatment of children with congenital heart failures in Slovenia. In January 2012, an internal audit report was published which revealed that the visiting Israeli cardiokiruge, David Mishali, had operated without a medical license for several years and was expected to receive absurdly high fees for his work. He was supposed to be paid through copyright contracts, and he couldn't pass his knowledge on to his home surgeons. A Commission report on anti-corruption was published in May 2013, confirming the findings of the internal audit report and the many other irregularities. The KPK report states that these are signs of corruption, which was strongly and persistently rejected in the leadership at the time. The Commission found this: a small number of surgical interventions per year in the operation of surgery in Ljubljana, a lack of reliable data entry into the European Register of Patients with Inherent Cardiac Mistakes, a significant deviation from the internationally published guidelines and standards for child surgery with questionable surgical results, and the Commission therefore concluded that the safety of child patients in the activities of child surgery in Slovenia was seriously threatened between 2007 and 2014. In the Commission's report, the Commission wrote it down. The relationship with cardiology and other services that care for these young patients was at first warm and professional. This professional environment has made it easier, good group work with various services of child medicine, but due to growing concerns and questions about the quality and safety of surgical services for children’s heart surgery, which have been put on by several doctors of intensive therapy and child cardiology, relationships have become tense in recent years. Tensions increased and eventually led to the collapse of the heart surgery centre, followed by the discontinuation of the child’s heart surgery services in UKC Ljubljana in December 2013. During the period 2007-2013, child heart surgery services were performed by one master surgeon, who was only three days a month in the premises of UKC Ljubljana, due to a natural error. The management of child heart surgery is expected to be aware of this situation and the Commission has concluded that the UKC and the management of child heart surgery have undoubtedly accepted or allowed such organisation to continue. The Minister, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, who was carrying out the ongoing business, provided the report of the international commission to the law enforcement authorities but never really acted. We have consistently argued that the situation in the treatment of children with congenital heart failure is satisfactory, functioning without problems and is completely safe. On 17 February 2016, members of the Health Committee received a strategy for the treatment of children and adults with congenital heart failure in UKC Ljubljana for the period 2016-2025. The strategy was prepared on the basis of a request from the Health Council and the Ministry of Health and on the basis of the 2015 report of the International Commission. Despite the assurance of the Ministry of Health of Employees and Responsible People at UKC Ljubljana that the children’s heart surgery programme is safe, that relations with paediatric clinics are regulated, new irregularities have arisen, and information from UKC Ljubljana has confirmed that the relationship between employees is still not regulated until this point so as not to affect professional work. We proposed at the end of 16 that an extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee should be re-convened on the subject of unregulated child heart surgery. By UKC Ljubljana, it was reassured that the new programme, which has been implemented since 2014, is safe and high-quality. The Ministry, headed by a current minister, promised that matters would be settled in order to improve the situation in the department and to identify objective and subjective responsibilities for the catastrophic situation in the child’s heart surgery, that due to negligence and systemic errors, children were pardoned and those responsible, despite the warnings of the profession, the reports of professional supervision and objections to the knowledge of some doctors were not acted upon. New information was received daily on uncontrolled conditions in the paediatric clinic, in the children’s cardiology department and in the children’s surgery department and intensive therapy in the surgical clinic. Due to the adverse event that took place on 2 September 2016, on the basis of extraordinary professional supervision, the then professional director of UKC Ljubljana Maria Pfeifer proposed the discharge of the professional director of the Paediatric Clinic Dr. Rajk Kenda. He was to blame for the working conditions at the clinic, which led to certain complications. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc also intervened in this process, and Dr Kenda was never relieved or called to account. Unregulated treatment conditions for children with congenital heart failure continued in 2017. In July this year, the Ministry of Health reassuranced that the children's heart surgery programme was working well, that it remained in Ljubljana and that cooperation with a foreign institution would be established to ensure the continued presence of a child cardiologist and surgeon in Ljubljana. At that time, the head of the Cardiology Service at the Ljubljana Paediatric Clinic Dr. Tomaž Podnar appeared to have resigned. After more than two years of calvary of adopting the strategy of the UKC Ljubljana Children's Heart Surgery Programme and later the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy, the Government took place only at its 154th meeting, 26. Ten. 2017, took note of activities in the field of the implementation of child and adult treatment activities with congenital heart failures and other heart and cardiovascular diseases. On 21 December 2017, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which operates the current business, confirmed the material on the establishment of the National Institute for Heart Disease, which is scheduled to start operating on 1 May this year. He is expected to receive funds from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and is expected to have other resources, including from the state budget. The Institute, which is headed by Aleksandra Stjepanović Vrečar, has premises at Ljubljana's Pediatric Clinic, where the Office of Cardiology is now. Applicants of the request are asked whether the current Government operating the current business will speed up matters, as the ruling SMC party is primarily known for its medical training. An even bigger question is the issue of human resources representation at the National Institute for Heart Diseases. In January 2018, four doctors from children’s intensive therapy, including mag, left. Gorazd Kalan, doctor of medicine, pediatrician specialist, former head of children's intensive therapy. Certain information that came to the public indicated departures and linked them to the fact that the management of UKC Ljubljana has not been able to provide a safe and stable working environment since 2009. It is expected to be an exceptional human resources sub-nutrient, which is expected to only increase after 2015. It was supposed to be the recruitment of the current government that was running the business and Mileyka Kolar Celarc, who replaced the general director of mags. Andraža Kopača and the professional director of Prof. Dr. Mario Pfeifer, both of whom were finally supposed to try to settle the situation. Now after the breakdown of children’s intensive therapy in UKC Ljubljana, children’s cardiology is followed. In early May this year, Professor Tomaž Podnar, doc. Dr. Just Happy and Dr. Steven Bajić. Thus, there is only one pediatrician left at work, and a fixed-term contract expires within a month, which means that children’s cardiology will be no more. Since UKC Ljubljana is the only Slovenian centre offering these activities, which are definitely necessary, even on an emergency basis, it is an exceptional situation. Therefore, we believe that it is imperative to find a solution and answer the question of what we want in this area, both in the medium and in the long term. Proponents of the request certainly believe that the highest responsibility for the situation at the Pediatric Clinic of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana is borne by Minister of Health, Minister of Current Affairs Milojka Kolar Celarc, as well as the President of the Government, who conducts ongoing business, Dr. Miro Cerar. We also believe that both should be responsible for non-action and a very poor health situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Once again, hello to everyone. For the past few years, even within the framework of the National Assembly, we have been discussing irregularities and the issue of the work of child heart surgery, it cannot be proud of the medical profession, which is primarily responsible for the situations that have arisen, but certainly not for the health policy, which was already thoroughly aware of all irregularities and all developments through international supervision at the beginning of this mandate. The frequent exchange of members of the Council of the UKC Institute and its management has certainly not been in favour of finding timely and real solutions. In view of the current situation, after the expenditure of several specialist doctors, there has been only more or less oil spilling on the fire of mistrust, both between employees and parents' mistrust in the work of a department that once enjoyed a great reputation. Today, we can only hope that the Ministry of Health will recently present the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease, which is expected to start operating in early July. At the latest departures of some experts, it remains afraid that in the current situation it will be very difficult to find all the properly trained doctors and other members of the medical teams, as also pointed out by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, and we hope that the newly established institute will be able to properly participate in the work of the UKC itself, which will certainly not be easy. The information that we have received from the representatives of the Clinical Center on the Health Committee only raises some hope that this time it will be better and that soon the parents of children with congenital heart problems will be able to retrust those dedicated individuals who want to do good all the time. Children’s heart surgery is certainly one of the most demanding areas of expertise that cannot work successfully without excellent organization, especially the uncoordinated functioning of paediatric cardiology, intensive therapy and child heart surgery. In this part, the policy itself is powerless and has an indirect impact on the provision of the necessary conditions and conditions without which the new national institution will not operate. Many open questions about the functioning of the newly created National Institute for Children's Heart Disease and the Government's departure raise many doubts. This is not only an urgent need for adequate funding from the Institute itself, but even though all good intentions are most often ended on this issue. It is also a matter of ensuring that all the conditions that put public health at the border of its existence and at the point where young doctors prefer to choose to work abroad and experienced specialists to leave public institutions. The main reason is the poor public health situation, and there is no end to this today. The amendments and amendments to some of the laws adopted in this mandate have unfortunately gone in the wrong direction and the decisions of the new government will have a key impact on maintaining quality and effective public health. However, the task of the Minister in leaving is to do everything at the time of the appointment of the new government, which means a new hope for small heart patients and their parents, to really start his work and to take good care of all these patients and children in the interim period, with or without the recommendations proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. About two weeks ago, the management of UKC Ljubljana became aware of the almost simultaneous failure of the working relationship of three cardiologists working in the Child Cardiology Service. Although these cardiologists will continue their work by the end of June this year, it is clear that the programme for the implementation of child cardiology and cardiac cardiology is in an unenviable position. It is the responsibility of everyone, especially policy, in a heated pre-election atmosphere, to discuss in this complex and sensitive area with discretion and in a way that will not create additional uncertainty, fear or even unrest in the public. At this point, let me quote: "I try to be positive and appeal to everyone, from politics to people working in the cardiology service, and to the heads of units participating in the current programme of child cardiology, not to undermine efforts and goals. The only goal for children, parents and employees is to set up a program for the treatment of heart disease and congenital heart failure in children so that they can work normally and that sick children get what they need, quality and safe treatment in Slovenia.” End of quote. The Social Democrats will certainly follow this appeal. At Friday's meeting of the Health Committee, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, the Director General of UKC Ljubljana, Mr Šabeder, Head of the Cardiology Service, Dr. Koževa, and the Head of the Department of Child Cardiology, Dr. Veselko, outlined the current situation or situation on the program of treatment of children with congenital heart failures. It is a fact that in the coming period it will be necessary to obtain the assistance of children's cardiologists from abroad and also to assist with the redistribution of pediatricians within the clinic and with pediatricians from other medical institutions in the field of arrhythmology, as well as in the field of adult cardiologists. The recent establishment of a special e-mail address is also welcome, on the basis of which all necessary information can be addressed to parents of children with congenital heart failures, which has proved to be a very useful, effective tool. However, like the UKC and the Ministry of Health, we are all still aware of the need to pay great attention to the appropriate training or specialization in Slovenia of educated young doctors, who will gradually fill the resulting staff gap and also take over much of the implementation of the programme. Unfortunately, however, such training will not work without the help or mentoring of foreign experts. At the said meeting of the Health Committee, it was also stated that, as of 1 July 2018, the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease, which is envisaged to carry out the children's cardiology and cardiac surgery programme, was also expected to operate within the premises of UKC Ljubljana. One of the main advantages of the Institute is that individual expert groups within the paediatric sector will work under the common auspices, which should help to improve the functioning and quality of the treatment of children. To conclude, I would like to point out that the Social Democrats support the activities presented by the Ministry of Health and, in particular, all those responsible at UKC Ljubljana and later at the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases, in cooperation with the parents of these children and with the medical profession, to gradually put in place a stable and high-quality and safe implementation of the programme, which will primarily be based on healthy human relations and relationships between all stakeholders and, on the other hand, will also be supported by an appropriate working environment for all employees. Only in this way will we be able to say that the goal has been achieved and done the most that can help unhappy children and their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u17	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Children’s heart surgery problems are, of course, a serious problem, such as a serious problem in a number of other health institutions, but this meeting will not contribute completely to solving these problems today. Moreover, political pressure on people who are currently trying to solve the problem and ensure smooth care for patients can make things worse, and one of them, Dr. Andrej Robida, a respected child cardiologist and health safety expert, has therefore called on politicians not to undermine efforts to establish a new institute last week. And the representatives of the parents' societies also opposed this meeting, but the SDS did not, of course, stop it from making use of the pressures of people to discredit the public health system, as the case of the Korean boys was, for example, used. And in doing so, it is not only unacceptable that the SDS is exploiting people's difficulties for narrow party interests, but it is also unacceptable that it does so as a party responsible for the poor state of public health in general and child heart surgery in particular. In 2015, the Supervisory Commission found that the children’s heart surgery programme had already been implemented between 2007 and 2014 by endangering the safety of patients and that the SDS had been in power twice. Until 2009, the Clinical Center was run by the director and the professional director, who was appointed the first Janša government. I'm sure they're at least objectively responsible. In early 2012, in the mandate of the second Janša government and Desus's Minister of Gantar, a report of the internal audit was published which showed that Israeli surgeon Mishaly did not train Slovenian surgeons, although he received extremely high fees for this. Janša's government has not acted again, so it is even more unacceptable that the SDS is now showing up as someone who could solve this problem. Please! The relationship between doctors is obviously so complicated that they could not be solved even by mediation, but this is not only a psychological problem, the problem is also a lack of resources and the SDS has made public health the most impoverished. By the time of the first SDS, governments had lagged behind economic growth. In 2007, the share of public health resources relative to the social product was the lowest in the last 20 years. During the entire mandate, the SDS government increased only 31% for the military and 50% for the entire budget, and let me remind you, the money went to Patrie, among other things. Health care was therefore not a priority even before the crisis, and it was one of the biggest victims of saving in the crisis. Not only has the other SDS government significantly reduced health resources, but it has also banned the employment of doctors and other health workers with the ZUJF. It is difficult to say how much this poverty has affected the problems of child heart surgery, but it is clear that permanent harm has been done to public health, for public health must obviously be destroyed so that it can then be elegantly privatized. On the basis of all this, I am confident that citizens and citizens will understand why members of the Left do not intend to discuss with the SDS the solution to the problems of heart surgery in health and society at all. It's because SDS is not the solution at all, but it's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u19	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, for her mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, good afternoon! Maybe I'm the only one in this room who can talk firsthand when it comes to baby heart surgery. Thank God for once my children didn't need this, this kind of service, but this kind of service was needed by my brother-in-law's niece. And if there's anything, then yesterday I communicated with my mother, I can tell you how painful it is for the parents and for the children, the current system that falls apart in front of our eyes. My mother said that bad relationships within the team felt that people in this department were communicating with each other inappropriately. Parents are not given appropriate explanations. Of course, because we do not have a suitable team, usually in more complex cases all children sent to treatment abroad. My sister-in-law's niece was sent to Germany first two months ago, and now she's waiting for a heart transplant in Vienna. This kind of treatment abroad brings another dimension that we may not feel when we discuss these things, when we think that treatment abroad is simple and that things will be resolved there, but treatment abroad brings another thing behind us. It's that you live in an environment that you don't know, that you live abroad, that practically your mother and child are isolated from their environment from their loved ones, which at such difficult times is an additional hardship. And if anything, then all this experience clearly shows that Slovenia needs child heart surgery and that good on domestic Slovenian soil. And the policy that sits in the Chamber is bound and committed to establishing everything necessary to enable such a centre to be built and established. If it is necessary to provide money, we must provide it. If there is anything else that needs to be done, because after all it is our future, it is our children. However we put things together, and also the measures that have been presented recently by the professional leadership, can at least at this short time reassure us in some way that things are moving forward, but it is still far from a concrete and final solution. Since many questions are being asked about the team's composition from all winds, how will the system work, based on the activities of experts from abroad and without experts from Slovenia. Who are they going to work with? How are they gonna give up their jobs? Who's gonna be the binding member on this team? How long will foreign experts actually be present in Slovenia? How will they get involved in the organization of work? And above all, it's important to know who I'd say to be, the circumstantial data, but it's crucial. How are they gonna communicate? In what language? And how will they communicate with other personnel? Especially with the parents of the children. These are all the questions that come with these things. It is also not exactly known which foreign centres will come from. Whether children's cardiology and cardiosurgery are developed in these centres in order to be able to transfer relevant knowledge to Slovenian experts in order to build this centre itself in the future of Slovenia. In particular, what have they done to ensure that this transfer of knowledge from foreign experts will also happen to domestic experts? If anything, it seems important to us in New Slovenia that the establishment of this centre, whatever the name is, be it a national institution for children’s heart disease, or it can have any other name, it seems crucial to us that our children can be treated on domestic soil in case of heart disease, because this will be the most effective, fastest and for parents and for children even the least stressful. And since this mandate is being concluded, of course, all these responsibilities for the establishment of this centre or institute will fall into the new government and this must be a key, fundamental, fundamental priority of the new government as soon as it begins its work. It is necessary to make it clear what resources are needed to make this centre live, to get the relevant experts who will transfer knowledge to our Slovenian doctors, and to grow a center, an institute that will also be based on Slovenian knowledge, so that we can finally operate on our children at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u21	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President. Nice greeting to some colleagues from SDS, New Slovenia! Nice greeting in an empty desk of Desus, SD, Left! Nice greeting to my colleague Mirjam and my colleagues and colleagues from the SMC Group! Of course, a nice greeting to both representatives of the Ministry of Health! Let me speak first as my mother. In life it is difficult to find such severe pain as the sight of your sick child. Even if he has a fever or a bad feeling, fear, infirmity with a crying sick child is the most common, natural, and most painful parental reaction. Now imagine - who knows or can imagine - how you feel when you have a diagnosis of a congenital heart failure. That's when your whole world breaks down as a parent. Life literally falls apart to the last atom. It's the first normal reaction. There is calming and seeking the best possible and affordable professional assistance. A rational approach follows. And those of you who believe that in such situations, in such a situation, politics can help, you have personally, nicely said, fallen off another planet, something deeply wrong with you. Only trust, trust, can help in such a case. Mutual trust between the doctor and the patient or his family. To justify his work skills with his staff while respecting his ethical principles of acting in the care of the sick. I'm talking about Hippocrates' oath, the professional and moral excellence of the medical profession, if you like, the constitutional principle of the medical mission to the best possible care for the patient. Indeed, some of this has been a major test for children’s cardiology in Slovenia in recent years. Whether the responses and actions of individuals and the medical community were appropriate for them to assess - and are already being judged - housing organisations, from the case to the case. What we, the politicians, have to ask ourselves is, in such cases, where the role of everyday politics begins and ends, whether it be coalition or opposition, government or parliamentary or something else, if you want. The border between public interest concerns and an unseemly attempt to gain political points is dangerous and extremely sensitive in the case of distressing sick children today with congenital heart failure. Perhaps some of you have overlooked in your mission that voters have been particularly attentive to such abuses and that we see them as acting as a backlog, manipulative, hypocritical political move. Yeah, it's hypocrisy again. The name looks like when we're talking about medical ethics and the personification of hypocritical and bad when we're on a political dance floor. Now allow me to repeat very briefly the facts, proven, uninvented or redesigned for my own purposes. First time. The program for children with congenital heart failures in UKC Ljubljana is implemented. Ambulances and all cardiologists work every day. Children are treated the same way as before. Operational interventions shall be carried out regularly for all those in need of these interventions. Parents and guardians of children have established a system of continuous information and communication. Another time. The management of UKC Ljubljana is already 10. May said this year they're looking for compensation for three outgoing cardiologists. Let me just remind you that at the beginning of May, all three of them resigned from their jobs in a three-day period without any explanation of the reasons for this failure. All three cardiologists have a 30-day cancellation period and have also been in their jobs, according to the Director-General of UKC, following their resignation. At the same time, we were able to hear firsthand that such cancellations in the case of specialists who have so-called monopolistic positions with other words, which are very few, are only one, two, three in the whole country, that such cancellations have actually become quite common in Slovenia. Such specialists often, and this has also been proven in other areas, resign from their jobs and then at the same health institution wish to work contractually with an offer that is financially higher than the payment if they were regularly employed. Even in the light of this activity and the move and situation created by UKC Ljubljana in the past week signed a contract with foreign specialists in the field of child cardiology, which will help with the smooth continuation of the programme in Slovenia because clearly Slovenian cardiologists do not want it. Third time. On 21 December last year, the government set up a national institute for children's heart disease because the professions, parents' representatives and management of UKC Ljubljana were united, that problems in the programme of children with congenital heart failures have been taking place for more than a decade and that the situation is urgently needed to change and establish normal working conditions. The report on the assessment of the activities of child heart surgery for the period 2007-2014, led by Prof. Dr. Igor Gregorič, was then drawn up by a special international expert supervisory committee in 2015. In line with all these findings, a public health institution, the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease, will be established at the beginning of July of this year, which will be legally independent of UKC Ljubljana and will also be a human resources independent body. Until then, work will take place smoothly within the program for children with congenital heart failures in UKC Ljubljana. The problems of this type, which we are talking about today, began in 2017 at the children's heart surgery in UKC Ljubljana, during the first Janša government. [[advertising from the hall]] 2007, I apologize and thank you for the correction. At the time of Janshea's first government. At the time of the first abuses in the purchase of venous braces, which Jelka’s colleague had already talked a lot about during this term of office of the National Assembly. And ever since then, none of these problems have been solved by any previous UKC Ljubljana management and none of the past governments, despite the fact that media have reported almost daily for many years about the unregulated situation, that all the general public and the majority of the professional public have been appalled. The international professional supervision carried out during the current government showed that relations and communication between doctors in child cardiology were not appropriate, due to the unresolved tensions between them and the lack of response from past leaders to such forms of non-cooperation, which unfortunately also affected the results of treatment. Disputes in public and in front of sick children, their parents and health workers have undermined professional integrity and mutual trust. As a result, both doctors and nurses and other employees left the wards. The last internal activities at the beginning of this month apparently represented only the epilogue of this long agony. At the same time, we want to make sure that finally children's heart surgery in Slovenia can now be restored to its feet and developed into a modern, reputable and trusted professional activity, which we will be proud of at home and also in the international environment. At the modern centre of today's meeting, at the request of SDS and New Slovenia, we only take the opportunity to explain, together with representatives of the Government, what is the public interest and concern for our country's children's cardiology in the treatment of sick young people. All other substantive issues are of a professional nature and must be resolved in such circles in the spirit of original communication of the principles of Hippocrates’ oath that doctors and their professional associations are primarily responsible for the reputation and trust of patients in them. The Code of Medical Deontology of Slovenia clearly requires cooperation between doctors, respect and, in particular, proper handling and handling of events in the event of professional differences. Good luck to small patients, their parents, their relatives, and medical and healthcare professionals. Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u23	Gradually, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I must say that this speech by my colleague, Simone Kustec Lipicer, has put pressure on me, and I demand that you give a warning, Mr President, because in the first part she has given a series of insults at the expense of the Members we have signed for this session. What is the task of Members? To alert people to their problems. And I contributed to the signature myself, not because it would be inconceivable, but because this problem is hot, and it is necessary to do everything we can to solve it properly. And what you've said in your position has disgraced us all. We've been blamed for the state he's in. Your secretary was a four-year-old minister, incompetent, made a lot of mistakes, set the system up a few years ago. The situation is what it is, and you've defended it twice at the time of the interpretation. So you have to find fault with yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u25	It works for everyone. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. You have the word again Pardon, first the proposer as usual. [[…]] So, representative of the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The congratulations received by the head of the SMC Group are congratulations on what she in fact showed by her insolence. I must join Ludmila Novak, who has said that you have shown your insolence today, but you have shown yourself to be quite the bottom of the floor. Besides, the lies you've told me are even more supportive of what I'm about to say. Look, international supervision of the work of treating children with congenital heart failure has not been introduced by your government, not required by your government. Let's take a look at the history of the whole thing. And thank God, as I sometimes say, that you have the government of Janez Janša for four years, 2004-2008, that all the difficulties for your condition, including personal problems, you are looking for in that government. Thank God, because otherwise I don't know how you'd even sleep. International supervision due to perceived anomalies, incompetence and poor relations in the implementation of child heart surgery is the Ministry of Health on 3 July 2013, Mrs Simona Kustec Lipicer, order, administrative supervision and so on and then the Medical Chamber, not your government. However, a report was received from this international commission on 9 July 2015. And ever since then, try to do your best to get this area under the rug. That's what you're trying to do. And there was no reaction to that report, nothing, if the work programme is good, let's not exaggerate, the quality will increase and so on. And on the basis of this report, the SDS convened an extraordinary meeting, the SDS, which has been responsible for everything since 2007 in health care. And at that time, we also considered the guidance of the day, including those of the then professional associates or professional guides, and you were silent. Nothing. It's okay, it's okay. Today you tell us that Janša's first government has been to blame since 2007. The report was held on 8 July 2015. 9 July 2015, Mrs Simona Kustec Lipicer again. This report was not discussed in 2007 and these findings were not discussed. And today you're talking about the fact that it's all the doctor's fault. Doctors who, according to you, do not want to work in UKC Ljubljana, go elsewhere, or then require business contracts and work in another institution of the same matter. Well, now I'm asking you if this is exactly what is said by informal information, so that these doctors who left today will be working at the National Institute under higher contracts. Did you suggest that maybe? Is that true, then? As long as I read doctors or receive messages, I talk to them, they're simple about these things, yes, they've been alerted for 10 years. And they simply left because none of the heads of the officials of the Ministry responded to the warnings they had given, but that I would not exaggerate, monthly, that I would not say on a daily basis. That when there were already objections to the conscience, when they saw that it was simply no longer going forward, a surgeon would come in for two days, operate, do more operations daily and then go and then these children would come in on an intensification, and that the doctors were not sure that everything was well done, give an objection to the conscience and go and simply could no longer work in the conditions in which they were prepared or brought to the leadership of the UKC, the ministry, for years. However, your Government 2014-2018 has said that health matters will get so far into such a good state that neither the doctors nor the patients will leave, that we will all be happy and satisfied and no one will wait. None of this has been done, and what is currently in child heart surgery is just a reflection of what has been happening for four years as intensely as possible, the destruction of public health, which is full of your mouth. And I say again, let me answer if you know whether these doctors really intend to work at higher prices, or higher wages, according to contracts. Then you're the one who's destroying public health because you've got these doctors out and then you've got them somewhere inside. Is it also true, then, that it is said that a national institute should be made when it is found that in the ministry or that there is no money left to privatise. Is that true, too? Then you're the one who's destroying public health. And not today, we can't help parents or children. We can't. However, we can be realistic and say, the policy is that, Members of the SD, Desus, SMC and the Ministry, this healthcare went not so far that today we do not have child surgeons, not cardiologists, that we have an irregular situation at the UKC Ljubljana and not only in this area, but all that goes away from the ultrasound diagnostics experts to leave the nurses in this area and from the IPP and other. We have taken Slovenian public health care so far. So far away. And this hypocrisy that we are looking at today, which we are looking at behind the stage or on the speaker's desk, almost crying, stop cursing, stop talking, tell people clearly and loudly, 60 days is a noticeable period, within which doctors will manage. Yes, they will do their job, and after 60 days a national institute will be established to treat children with heart disease or heart disease, with foreign experts and for these foreign experts, if you remember when it was in Maribor, that they would come from Croatia anesthesiologists, hours of heaven. Croatians don't speak Slovenian. Then they sent our people to learn Croatia so that they could communicate with these people. Then came a clear position of the Medical Chamber that not that foreign experts must know Slovenian that communication is good. And here's no problem now, how long will these professional workers, foreigners, work with us? How long? Who's going to communicate with them? Today, we receive a constant question, including yesterday's official position, which you have already read from the Medical Chamber. So do these doctors all have licenses? Are they able to master all of Slovenia, this area of child heart surgery? How many days a week are they going to be present for? How many operations are they going to do? Who's up for "back up"? Or, I mean, let me answer these questions. In addition, we read the Government's views that this national institution has been established, that this ministry has taken over this establishment of the National Institute because the UKC has not been able to do so. But now we read here from the view of the Medical Chamber that the UKC surprised the end of 2017 and had these matters sorted. Signed contract with the Czech Republic or Prague established the Centre for the Treatment of Children and Adults with Congenital Cardiac Mistakes. Now, who's lying? Government or Medical. And here it says, November 15, 2017, UKC Ljubljana essentially surprised because it had established this centre and because it had signed a contract with Prague, but the Ministry of Health said no and it signed a new contract which, according to the Medical Chamber, I do not know, will you, I think, also have to clarify that the current management in UKC Ljubljana has concluded a different contract with experts from abroad, which has substantially deviated from the recommendations of the international judgment. And today I don't know how many times we've been listening to this session: "It's all right," after 60 days: "It's all right," and then I don't know, and then the Croats, the Czechs, will come, and I don't know what else you've listed, but there's no answer to what I've already asked, so whether after all the recommendations of the international assessment, how long will they be, who are those young people, but how many of those young people who are going to be educated and will then take this center or this treatment, because we know that it's not 60 days, it's not 1 year, it's 3 to 5 years to become single. So don't say that then we'll be fine, we'll bridge for 60 days now, then there'll be some foreign doctors, and then we'll have our own. We're not going to be five years old, if that's the case. Or you may still attract doctors who have gone abroad, but I strongly doubt that today everyone is making statements that they will not return to such an irregular state in Slovenia. In one year, children’s intensive therapy was left by 7 doctors and all were swallowed up by money or something, 7 doctors. So there's basically not enough doctors in the department. After all these international assessments there could be 20 of them, now we only have two. And the relationship between surgeons, cardiologists and intensifiers was so bad that it just wasn't working anymore. And now, yes, indeed, we can't go to UKC Ljubljana, so let's just say, now you're on, sit down here and take care of yourself. It's not working. But this ministry replaced several directors in 2018 than ever before in UKC Ljubljana. Extracurricular personnel. And that's why you can't, of course not, one comes, one starts to do something, you put it down already, the other goes in, from Vrchunc, to Baričič, to Kopach and now Šabedra. You've changed them, you've changed them, and the doctors say there was no hearing that they were alerted, but no, and eventually they left because it's not possible to work because the surgeon is there twice a month, operating on 10 children in one day, and then on the other day, it goes if they've warned about it, and now nothing. Yes, the policy is responsible for not stabilising the situation in UKC Ljubljana, because it allowed staff directors to change and so on. So it's not funny to me at all. But it's funny to you who are recruiting, so you can actually see what's going on in health. So taking responsibility from one to the other won't solve anything. [[…]] Now the Ministry says it's the UKC fault, the UKC says it's the doctors' fault, the doctors say it's the government's fault, they don't know who it is. Nothing's gonna help us, nothing. Once again, in the National Assembly, we are responsible for the creation of a policy that will stabilise the health system, which has failed in this Government and you have had a majority of votes, 60 votes, 60 votes, and you have failed to regulate Slovenian health. And now the opposition is to blame for what is happening in health care, the opposition is to blame for this, which we have already called no longer know how many meetings I can no longer count on to warn you. You rejected all the recommendations, you rejected all the conclusions, you refused 2 interpretations, but today I am listening by your coalition parties, SD and Desus, as your minister for nothing. However, all hands were raised there, or the buttons against the interpolation. And I'm not gonna talk about SMC because I already told you. You've been defending the secretary until the end. You'll be defending her now. Take a look at the condition in UKC Ljubljana, see the condition on the children's heart, on the paediatric, neurology, IPP wherever you want. Everyone will tell you the same thing, politics is to blame for not doing the right stable system in health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u27	The replica is only possible after the debate. Now I'd like to ask him not to abuse him, because he's totally out of touch. Gradually, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. I would like to ask that we turn our attention back to the substantive debate that has also been put forward by the applicants in their request. In this light, I would also like to make another point. Look back at the magnetogram! In just one place I mentioned explicitly or New Slovenia, SDS twice. That's when I was talking about the callers. I haven't told anyone by name who he is or who he is, you know that. If it upsets you, it's actually a question for you and not for me, because I didn't tell you any of this directly. However, I only mentioned the SDS once again, which is that during the first Janša government 2017, for the first time, it was also officially diagnosed to have 2007 diagnosed that we have a problem in this area. As for the very substantive debate of public interest in the field of health, this is what it is and must be today the subject of discussion, and in the light of that, we will also give you a little bit of information and data if you just want to know how many patients there are, what they are talking about, what they are actually trying to do now is an excessive story and an excessive emergency that they are not. That's one thing. That's another thing. Once again, please go look at the magnetogram, do not take what has been said from the context. However, if you want and if this will relieve the debate from listening to giving wrong, misleading information or conclusions, I am at your disposal until the end of this debate with great pleasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u29	Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor now. Prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mrs Erika Deklava.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u30	Again, thank you for your word. At least what I expected was that, at my request, Mr President would give his fellow Member at least one kind of reminder, because in the first part she criticized or used inappropriate words for proposing, among which I am, instead of expressing the party's position. In the second part, however, she misused the procedural requirement for a procedural word. I expected her to apologize in an appropriate manner, not to further advocate this wrong course. If I come back, why did I sign? Because the problem is pressing, it is current and certainly we are responsible for the situation that has arisen - someone less. It is our duty, and the duty of the opposition to draw attention to the problems, regardless of whether we are in the middle of the campaign and are preparing for the next term, we must also now draw attention to this. I really have to say that it put pressure on me to be insolent because I contributed a signature to this session. Why do I know the subject is hard? Because today is a child who has problems with them, tomorrow may be mine or yours, a child or a grandson, and this is life and death. Doctors thus parents, of course, who suffer the most about this and are concerned and also doctors who know that they cannot help enough because they are also under stress, stress, because the conditions in which they work are often unbearable. For this reason, it is also the policy's duty to consider appropriate appropriate measures. If we have not been able to prepare them so far, surely the first task of the future government is to try to remedy these problems as much as possible. It is also worrying when we hear that mediation is needed among employees. I explain this to myself in this way, but there are people there who have an inhumane attitude toward human beings who are willing to help, who are likely to have gone into these professions, and then they have to face such problems, or they have to act unethically. Why? I know for myself that when I'm tired, when I'm powerless, I'm much smaller than when things run normally. And people who are overburdened, who face overload and problems day in and day out, I believe that it is not easy for them, and that then there is much greater tension between them. Well, here I have an example of one survey made by medical students, 342 medical students responded to this survey and why they would go to work abroad. Well, it is interesting that they said that due to better working conditions abroad, due to unsustainable conditions in Slovenian health care, due to higher pay, due to better living conditions, due to better working relationships. And where we would like to go, the first country is Austria, of course, logically, because it is the neighbouring state of Slovenia, because there are the conditions arranged and those who go there and think that for some time to get new experiences, they will return when they see how things are arranged there, then I believe that no one comes to the thought of going back to Slovenia. Well, this baby heart surgery has been having problems all along. When I met with some doctors or listened to them, and we also read about them in the media, the problem is that, or it is also that a good doctor has to perform many surgeries annually, but there are not many operations here, thank God they are not, even by force, we will not do them to have more experience, so it is certainly worth considering, and it is probably already thought that our doctors would go to surgery elsewhere, probably this is happening, and in this way we also received those additional interventions and more practice so that they can then be sovereign in their work. So that health needs to be the first topic of the future government, not a debate on whether we will have only public health, of course, individuals with concessions are part of public health, this is not the most important to me, it is important to me that health care will be quality, that patients will not wait for the proposal, that their situation will not get worse, that it will not be more working days, that I do not say months or years, that they will not come as soon as possible, but whether it is public, private, private, private, private, concession, that all together we need is just mutual relations and the rules must be regulated, the organisation must be good, but it is clear that we will therefore need additional financial resources because we are a long-lived society, so these problems will increase. So that all together, even at this time when we are all presenting our electoral programmes, we are thinking about this and then whoever is going to form the future government is going to take this problem seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u31	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Prepare Mrs Erika Deklava and Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. So, first of all, I must make it very clear to those who are watching this session that in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in New Slovenia we have called this meeting with the aim of getting the right answers from the Ministry and partial responses when we talk about political responsibility, from the coalition, how to proceed. The fact is that child heart surgery is completely decomposing and whoever is here today, in this House, is saying that in health and in this area there are no extraordinary situations, is lying to himself or is trying to mislead the Slovenian people. There is an emergency in this area, now and here. All doctors have resigned, and if this is not a big enough alarm that we want to draw attention to in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in New Slovenia, then I really don't know what actually has to happen in this society in order to start things in the right direction. And respected colleagues, four years of the government of Mir Cerar, Social Democrats and Desus, have passed and you have had the opportunity to influence change. You had everything you needed in your hands so that within four years you could change things so that there would not be a complete breakdown in heart surgery. Please, I am sure that someone must take responsibility for this and the Slovenian people will also receive, after today's session, the key information that is very important, how the elections will be decided in a few days. Among other things, this coalition and this government were unable to regulate the health situation, the health system, and even less when it comes to children’s heart surgery. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I listened to Desus' discussion, which is unfortunately not present in the Chamber, none of the Members, and the gentleman who used to be Minister said: "We can't... Therefore, the state of child heart surgery cannot be proud of the profession and health policy.” Who's the one who runs health policy? Coalition and Government. You're the one who runs the health policy that guides health policy. In the opposition in the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia, we have done everything we can to help you solve this problem and this problem, but you obviously live, as Mrs Lipicer said someone else lives in another world, and I say that you live in another world. Excuse me. I really think you live in a different world, not in reality. Then this same gentleman from Desus, who was always in this coalition and even in previous coalitions, said: “The poor public health situation...” So, the bad situation in public health, he admitted, said, and stressed. “All the legislation adopted went in the wrong direction.” That's what Mr. Gantar said, your coalition partner. Now ask yourself, and please everyone who sits here, let's ask ourselves who is crazy here – is it us who are warning that everything you do is going in the wrong direction, or are you who make decisions that go to the detriment of patients who go to the detriment of Slovenian people. That's one question to ask. Then the debate of the Left, which has also escaped from the National Assembly, I find it difficult to comment, and I think it is also pointless, because so many untruths, so many lies and so many deceptions as we have heard from them, I do not think it is worth commenting on. And I hope that Slovenians and Slovenians will not vote in the next election for such idiotism as I have heard from this side. I hope so. I really hope so. And then I move on to the position of the SMC Group, because I cannot believe that the leader of the SMC Group allows himself to have such a close influence on the feelings of Slovenian citizens and citizens and on the feelings of mothers and all those who have problems or from whom children have problems. That's a low-key way. And I couldn't afford it either, and I couldn't afford it either. I really don't. In this way – this is too much, and this has exceeded all the limits of good taste. I am sure, Mrs Lipicer, you had four years of authority, instead of showing an emotional outflow here, you had scissors and canvas in your hands to solve this problem or solve it as much as possible. And I would be most proud and happy, as the opposition Member, if you said today at the National Assembly, "this problem is settled, we have a problem in child heart surgery, we have our specialists and we do not need foreign specialists, because we can perform operations on our children's hearts ourselves." And now we have the problem that for the next five years we will not have anyone, at least five years, as colleague Maya said, for at least five years, because you know what it takes to become a specialist who can take responsibility for operating on children, it is the youngest. This is amazing what you have succeeded - total breakdown of child heart surgery and the beginning of a breakdown of the health system, not the beginning, but the beginning, quite a long way from going this, breakdown of the public health system. [[Incomprehensible]] And as you can see, we have a lot of dissatisfaction in patients. You were talking about how you'd successfully solve the waiting lines. Now we have substantially extended waiting lines. I don't know how many years it takes for people to come up with solutions that should be settled immediately. A lot of people die because it doesn't come on time, and so on. And instead of being very quiet, we would fall and say that we really failed - why you failed, it is clear - we have really failed and therefore we leave this problem to the next government. But you are trying to convince us that we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party I do not know who, because we are constantly warning that things in this Government for the future of the Slovenes and Slovenes and those waiting in the waiting lines are not going in the right direction. And there is an urgent need for change; for then, at the end of the sentence, I will say what we will do to make it different. We've got, like I said, a particularly prominent waiting line. Then we have the dissatisfaction of nurses, the dissatisfaction of doctors, the Medical Chambers, not to talk about young doctors leaving Slovenia because things are not arranged here so that they can function normally and work normally. And who is responsible for establishing a system to make these doctors feel good, want to work here and leave their knowledge in Slovenia and save lives in Slovenia, not abroad. This is the fault of the coalition and the government, definitely because in the Slovenian Democratic Party and also in New Slovenia we have done everything we can to help you solve this problem, but obviously, once again, I say, everything we have proposed has been rejected. And now you would end up playing on people's feelings about how you're hurt and so on, and that's really the lowest thing that's ever happened to me in the National Assembly. And, Mrs Lipicer, I expect and hope that you will never again have this opportunity to try to mislead the Slovenian public in this way, I really hope. Now for a few more words. The government stated in its opinion: “The Ministry of Health has been actively monitoring the issue of the children’s heart surgery programme since 2012 when the professional college for paediatric surgery has been extended 4. 4. 2012 at the initiative of the Health Council addressed the issue of the children’s heart surgery programme and assessed the programme as a systemic failure.” Since 2012, we are now in 2018. Dear Mrs Lipicer, answer me what I have read here and what your Government has written down, what you have done at this time from 2012 to this point in time, so that we do not have such a situation today so that heart surgery does not collapse completely. What did you do? You write things like that yourself. In the following article, you wrote: “Systemic deficiencies in the work of child heart surgery have also been observed by the Ministry of Health’s extraordinary administrative supervision of 14. 5. In 2014, the Ministry of Health of UKC Ljubljana, by Decision No 0600/88/2013, of 9. Seven. 2014, laying down measures to address the shortcomings. I'm asking you what was done from then on until today, but if the system is now completely decomposed. I don't know if I can read or if you don't know, you don't know what you're writing. What are the measures if the system is now completely decomposed? That's amazing. Look, I'm not even going to read it because it's absurd. [[…]] And the well-respected coalition, once again, if I go to distribute this matter further, you will find it really embarrassing that you have been in this government for four years. You must be really embarrassed in front of the Slovenian public, in front of the Slovenian people. You must be ashamed to be fooling around here with your emotions, and on the other hand you are working against the system functioning normally, because of certain specific lobbying and personal interests. That's pig shit. And this is what is crucial, and this is the key message that the Slovenian people must receive, when 14 days from now or 10 days from now, as far as the elections are concerned, it is up to the person who will report this system forward in the next four-year term, this country, and that it will lead the country in that direction, so that people will be satisfied that patients will arrive on time. In time, people will not die because heart surgery does not work, yet another baby dies. That was more than a surplus that could happen to anyone. And you had the opportunity, you can't say, four years you had the chance, if you had now six months, I'd say, sorry, I was a little exaggerating, but after four years of operation, you allowed this system to collapse completely. What you've been doing, it seems, you've even probably helped with this or how. I can't explain to myself otherwise that just before the next election, the system was completely decomposed. And all you're saying is fire solutions. My colleague said it's been two months, it's three months, the problem's solved. Then what? Then what? When will we have our next home doctor, who will be convinced by appropriate health policy that he will stay here and that these operations will be carried out. And in given circumstances and such a system, and once again happens to come such a government up, we will truly lose everyone, without all those that are of great importance to this country moving forward, and this is young intelligence. It's in the health system it's in any other system, etc. And I don't think anyone in this society can afford this anymore, either in two years or I don't know how many young people leave Slovenia 8 000, or I don't know how many young people who want to have a situation that they want to be able to get even with wages, with people living in Austria, Germany, etc. And as long as we don't have this situation put in place like this, our brains are going to cross the border. And this government has had four years to put an end to this matter, but nothing has been done except to encourage further privilege, privileges, etc., for this god man who waits for how many years, two, three years to come and talk to me about the public health system, but if everyone has to pay specifically to come in order to save their lives. Is this your public health system? Please don't fool yourself, don't be such a lowlife. You don't have that right. In front of the Slovenian public, no one has the right to do so, neither you nor anyone in this society, which is either a seat or a Member or a Government. No one has this right, and it is imperative that the next term be taken by the Government, which will stand behind its words and those words, the sentences that we will hear today, then in the next term, and it is also fair and fair and those who have not done so and have not done so in four years, must be punished in the elections and I speak with the votes of the electorate and voters, not anything else that we will not misinterpret, unless someone else has had any other black business, which must be closed immediately. And in order to improve this situation, we have written very clearly in the Slovenian Democratic Party a few important sentences, namely, we will immediately approach intervention measures to shorten waiting periods, we will shorten unacceptable waiting periods within three months. We will relax competition among the operators and, as a result, ensure greater kindness and quality of services. We will set up a network of health facilities, and we will be able to apply for health programmes by all qualified health service providers. We will reshape health care institutions by making them more independent in terms of human and wage policies, but at the same time bearing greater responsibility. In order to ensure unscrupulous and competitive procurement and cooperation and exchange of staff, we will establish the holding cooperation of health institutions. National hospitals and clinics will be included in the European reference centres system by providing treatment for rare diseases to Slovenian patients. We will clearly establish a list of all health insurance rights that must always be available to insured persons without undue delay. We will lay the groundwork for safer medical treatment and systemically regulate the right to compensation for adverse treatment outcomes. We will immediately begin to establish a system of long - term care so that any elderly person can enjoy a dignified and safe age. With the health change programme, we place the user of health care at the center. The money will finally follow the patient. And that's what I think is most important to follow the money to the patient, not the privileged society, to individuals in their own pockets. And that is what, among other things, very simply, we will cut down on corruption and corruption in the health system. And there'll be enough money in the health system, only the right redeployment has to be. And politics is obliged to ensure such conditions, as I said before, that doctors will like to work here, that they will have clear instructions, that things will go in a clear direction and that they will know exactly what they can, what they cannot do and why they need to do. These conditions must be set by policy when setting up a public health system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we say and stand again and again that we need a public health system in Slovenia, but we must allow proper competition to function as it does in Austria, Germany and everywhere where democracy is developed, where corruption is virtually completely eliminated. And that's why all the money that goes into the health system stays in the health system and is at the service of those who pay it. These are patients, these are citizens and citizens. This needs to be achieved. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, believe me, we will achieve this goal in the next term. I am confident that Slovenians and Slovenians will make the right decision in the elections and vote for the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u33	Mrs Erika Dekleva has the floor to prepare for Mr Jožef Horvat and Jani Möderndorfer. Mrs. Girl, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Well, this is where we finally came up with, or at the very beginning, the answer to why we are having a meeting today. We have a meeting today because the SDS party needs a free pear. My friend Pojbič has now read the SDS program. So, we are not here today to talk about health problems, but we are here so that colleague Pojbič can read what the SDS will do when it will and I hope that she will never run politics again in Slovenia. My friend Pojbich also said that we should be embarrassed. Well, I'll be honest, I've had it a number of times in four years. My friend Pojbich, every time you open your mouth, it's embarrassing whether you or your colleague Grims. I'm really ashamed to have to sit in the same room with you and listen to this kind of discussion. No wonder politics is in such a bad voice. After such a discussion, there can be no other way. Today, unfortunately, we face another one in a series of really harmful meetings convened by the SDS, this time or very often Nova Slovenija will join. That today's meeting is harmful, it's not just my conclusion, it's a conclusion of the profession. And that is why my colleague Novakova, without the need for anger, demands the President of the National Assembly to warn me, my colleague's apology, that is without need, because we Members have the right to say that the meeting is harmful if we so think and if that is the case with the profession. Colleague Novakova then became very involved in her implementation. She correctly concluded that these operations were seriously inadequate and that this way surgeons might not feel sufficiently sovereign, sufficiently secure. They need many, and they need much experience to be good at what they do. And fortunately, there are not many such sick children in Slovenia. And then it's her idea for our Slovenian surgeons to operate abroad and gain experience there, but how our doctors will go abroad, where everything is beautiful and right, as she said. Why would you go abroad, because there are no problems in health care other than in Slovenia in any country in the world. Unfortunately, we are here today, and we need to discuss this. That's what I'm gonna say first. If the SDS seems so urgent and so necessary to convene a meeting two weeks before the elections, then any normal person would expect that today the SDS is sitting here, discussing, listening, and so there are three of you, from a whole large group of SDS are in the hall three, which is a national problem, as they say. The fact is that the SDS does not really care about anything, at least nothing about children, with sick, severely ill children, but these SDS children are being used to collect political points and that's all that's true, and that's pathetic. So everything the head of the SMC Group has said is quite true, I'm afraid. I'm going to paint history very briefly for the audience now. The problems we're going to talk about today really have a very long beard. They've been dragging for 10 years. During that time, the government was run by the SDS, but apparently it could not or could not make order, as is now widely predicted. All governments and all ministers have come to terms with this health problem. Who really does them and who does them or at least tries them will, yes, people can also judge on the basis of today’s session themselves. So in 2007 Dr. Sojak left UKC Ljubljana for similar reasons to many after him. And Dr. Mishaly came to Ljubljana from Israel. Everything was fine until the financials showed the cost of the operations carried out by Dr. Mishaly in Ljubljana in 4 years. And yes, they didn't write about how many operations he found out how successful they were, how successful those kids are now, no. They wrote about how much it cost to save lives, like it had a price. Shortly after this announcement, attacks on Dr. Mishaly and Dr. Bloomauer followed. In December 2013, several physicians of pediatricians claimed conscientious objection, although their argument was contrary to the provisions of the Health Act. The activities are run by Dr. Podnar and Gorazd Kalan, as usual due to the violation of the law, but the government was not led by the SMC and the Ministry, not by Milojka Kolar Celarc. As a result of his cooperation with Dr. Mishaly, Dr. Blumauer, who is even under criminal arrest, is also defiled to blame for the death of four children on the basis of a report by doctors of paediatrics, cardiologists and physicians of Intensive Physicians. The prosecution dismisses the complaint, Dr. Blumauer leaving Slovenia almost before the end of training for a child heart surgeon. Before that, he responds to the call of two other doctors and despite the ban on leadership comes in the middle of the night to UKC Ljubljana and quickly saves the baby's life with surgery. The Children’s Cardiology Department leaves a longtime, highly experienced nurse and goes to a nursing home. The department also leaves Dr. Hrybernikov. Dr. Kosmac, pediatric cardiologist, very popular with parents, leaves UKC and Slovenia in 2014 due to unsustainable conditions. We can also remember that a recognized Belgrade surgeon Dr. Igor Šehić came to Ljubljana. He successfully operated on three children, but at the hint of a pediatrician, two parents refuse to operate on their children even though they needed surgery. It starts with a pompous attack on him and on his work. He is given one year’s additional training by the Medical Chamber, although he had a valid license in the United Kingdom. Dr. Shehić, of course, leaves Slovenia. In short, the media and politicians call this a bad relationship between employees. They are not only bad, they are catastrophic, but where they are good and excellent, good and excellent politicians do not make them, so also bad relationships cannot be made by politics and cannot be solved. This can be done by employees. Bad relationships have a name and a responsibility. And as we walk through a long history of problems, we run into names and surnames, we run into egos, puffs and swallows, we run into a constant of all events, such as Dr. Podnar, who even his colleagues felt unkindness, non-diplomatic conduct, and an absolutistic attitude. In order to improve these poor relations between employees, the UKC agreed in 2012 to try to resolve internal disputes through mediation and discussions. You have to sort them out somehow, and this is, say, a good attempt – through mediation. The cost of mediation was 30,000 euros, but Mr Podnar left the mediation after two years because he came to realize that mediation is a peaceful solution to disputes and that it will not end up as he asked. If there is no communication between doctors, it is difficult to establish the policy or Milojka Kolar Celarc. There must be a team working on a friendly basis. Tonin also said that bad relationships within the team felt and that parents felt them. But how can politics solve these bad relationships? Are we going to be here today at this plenary session? Politics can provide money, it can change legislation. Can it affect bad relationships between employees? My colleague Tonin also raised many questions, which he has no answers to, which are led by the UKC, we do not have all Members, we have many answers at the committee meeting, and many of us have heard at the UKC visit on Monday. You, Comrade Tonin, weren't there. And today we are discussing the termination of two, as if the end of the world were. After all these years, perhaps one could say that nothing better could have happened if the key problems had been removed by themselves. While SDS is citing extraordinary meetings, some members of the SMC and the Health Committee went to UKC, of course without cameras, and we made sure that it was there. I was there yesterday, so today I can safely say that the children are in safe hands. That there's a job going well and smoothly. I saw a boy yesterday who had surgery on Friday. Who operated on him if there's no one who can operate. The boy was playing on his bed last night, he was in surgery on Friday, his parents were with him, and I was talking to them. They were content to see how satisfied their parents could be in such a situation. I think that the professional problem now solves them that are extremely good UKC CEO and team, and I believe that they will succeed if we leave them. There are extraordinary people and extraordinary nurses and no one is at risk. No one's waiting for surgery. If a child is waiting there today, not because someone does not have to operate, but because they need to stabilize a child’s condition before the child is operated on and because a baby needs to gain weight before it is operated. And the only disturbance in our lives is the introduction of politics and the media. And with everything hanging on their heads, I'm sorry they don't need any extra external pressure. And yes, I'm ashamed today, and I'm embarrassed because I know that kids are lying there today after surgery or in front of her next to their beds, with their parents and dedicated staff. And we're picking political points here. And yes, I am ashamed when I listen to my colleague Godec, who, after four years, still has no idea of some fundamental legal facts and procedures, because he does not know that every employee is obliged to carry out all the tasks entrusted to him by the employer until the end of the notice period, so there is no need for the government to kneel before these doctors and, as you have written in its recommendations, ask them to do so, because it is their job, legal and ethical obligation. Ethics are constantly referred to, and now they must be respected. Everything is well taken care of, and I believe that it will also be in the future, if we all, of course, work hard and have the same goal. The transport of life-threatening patients in Slovenia was well organized and Falcone, according to my information, was never a problem. The main problem was the attempt to conclude a harmful contract on private helicopter transport with Flyco in connection with AMC Slovenia, which Mr Bručan, Minister of the Janševa Government, wanted to conclude. I think that everything is under control and that there is no need to do a circus and that there is a state of emergency created just so that the SDS will then appear as some kind of knight that saves the impossible situation. The cancellations in Slovenia take place every day and therefore the plenary session is not convened. When I was driving to Ljubljana today, I watched a little bit of SDS posters and their candidates, which scare and create panic, say about migrants, even though people don't meet them anywhere, we don't see any more, any of us Slovenians lost their jobs or their money. You put security first. I agree, it's important, everything else loses meaning if we're not safe. But the fact is, hatred gives birth to hatred and violence brings forth violence. And if we are a safe country today, I fear we will be dangerous in the event that the SDS will run politics. I believe that politics must now withdraw and leave the professions and management of the UKC to do their job unless we want it to be a permanent problem. Let me conclude with the words of the esteemed director of UKC Ljubljana, Prof. Dr. Brigita Drnovšek Olup, who said at the time: "When it comes to children's life, this local planning must be forgotten and done for the benefit of the child." As a mother, I simply cannot imagine that today I would abuse the plight of children and their parents to achieve my political goals. Some people just do it without a problem and without a bad conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u35	Gradually, Mrs. Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u36	Dear President, I ask you to stop working on your cell phone and listen to the debates and all of those, regardless of which side the left, right, middle, if they go beyond the darkness, and say today the topic of solving the program of children's cardiosurgery in Slovenia and not the pre-election pamphlets no matter which side they are on, I reiterate that what we are listening to has gone through everything, not one of the professional pages of dealing with MEPs with doctors with everything that has come through and I ask you nicely again, regardless of which side of which side of the political accounting is going on with anyone who has to deal with such and other and that we listen that someone here today has to sit down, nobody here today must sit down and also let the Members know it, no one here has to sit down and that they have to discuss with anyone else and we are asking that anyone here must sit down and we are not listen to hear any further discussions about these things that are going through Slovenia, and we are not going through it. That's not the topic today.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u37	Mrs Jelka Godec, I ask you to sit here and advise your colleagues on such things before their discussions. So if I have to be objective, I'm in charge of the meeting, and I'm not going to follow your proposal. Mrs Erika Dekleva has done her job more than correctly, but if you have been troubled in her content, this is your problem. Mr Branko Grimes, you have procedural options and then Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u38	On the contrary, I will propose that, because she has also admitted her own personal guilt for the current situation to commend Mrs Eriko Deklava because she has publicly said that she is ashamed of herself, because she is rightly ashamed and should be terribly ashamed of herself, because twice in this mandate there has been an intervention against the Minister, who is legally responsible for the situation we are discussing today. As Members and Members of the Coalition, you have also decided on the budget and thus on the sharing of money. Both times and in the division of the budget, Mrs Erika Deklava supported the Minister. In doing so, she took her part in the blame for this situation personally, and she could rightly be ashamed and even more ashamed of herself. Shame on her!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u39	If I were a magician. Branko Grims would understand that she was ashamed of the interpretations and such omissions of certain Members, which I do not want to appoint here today. Ms Erika Dekleva was correct in her implementation and expressed her shame at the failures of fellow Members. Procedural mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u40	Mr President, if you want to be treated exactly the same, you have also supported the Minister, as you well remember, and you are also taking over your share of the blame.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u41	And I agree with Mr Erika Girl when I say that we can be ashamed of the implementation of certain Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u42	But this is an indisputable fact, Mr. President, and you are leading right and to all the same, impartially as you are doing [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u43	Mag. Branko Grimes, I'll turn off your microphone in two seconds. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President, I obviously really have to say that most of my debate, Mrs Girl, did not understand, but nothing wrong. Indeed, when she said that she was ashamed every time I opened my mouth, it was right for the Slovenian public to know that I was already a Member of the National Assembly, Mrs Dekleva was the first term, and I am sure that the last one would be chosen in the next reference and who opened their mouths to elect voters and voters in elections, but not one individual who, through his own debate, was leading his debate to insult me personally, because that is an insult. Mr President, you know this is an insult to someone saying that he is ashamed of himself in this House every time I open my mouth. That's as much as I'd say I'm ashamed every time you, Mr. Vice President, open your mouth. So if this isn't an insult, then I don't know what an insult actually is in this National Assembly. The second thing, sir, is that, Mr Vice-President, which is objective, are the objective circumstances on which you should react. You probably agree with me. Secondly, in her debate, Mrs Deklava spent a lot of time talking about how we intimidate people in the Slovenian Democratic Party. For God's sake, look, I really don't understand this. My friends, my fellow citizens, don't understand this, a wider circle of people I'm meeting. I have never heard anyone say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we frighten people when we say very clearly that we are talking about Slovenia and the Slovenian people, and that the Slovenian people have a priority in Slovenia. If this is frightening people, then I really don't know what kind of people are sitting in the National Assembly to understand it that way. Then she said that what I may have been discussing or what we are discussing in the Slovenian Democratic Party is far from what the profession thinks. And I will only give you three quotations, which were written and published on May 21st, when Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, President of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, said the following. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, I quote, warned that after the departure of home doctors, the treatment of children with congenital heart failures will no longer be safe. The President of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia said this. May 21st, May 22nd, and said at the same time: “It would be better to send children abroad than to occasionally come to UKC by foreign surgeons”, is on behalf of, so I quote [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u45	Mr. Pojbich, three minutes, just to warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u46	Yeah, I still have one minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u47	No, you don't have any more. You're 11 seconds out in three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u48	Dear Mr. President, please allow two sentences to be read [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u49	I know, but you're saying you've been elected four. But I could remember after three minutes that you had a replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u50	Well, yeah, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u51	Your time is up. Three minutes [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u52	Mr Vice-President, I will not read this again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u53	You can come by later.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u54	Look, I'm not going to read this anymore, but I'm going to tell you, and now the moment has come when you must be ashamed of how you're taking this debate. You can be really ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I'll think about it. We're moving on. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Mr Jani Möderndorfer and mag. Branko Grimes. Mr. Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Health, dear colleagues and colleagues! So I'm not a specialist in child heart surgery, so I'm not going to judge the possible post-operative state of the baby that was maybe a few days ago, like Erika said, operated and said it was okay. That is why I prefer to focus on professional materials and this is also the basis for my debate. Who are we? We're not specialists in child heart surgery, but it's our job to point out anomalies, to point out the problems that are specifically in health care. I will not abuse, Mr Vice President, the contents of today's session, but only one sentence if you allow me. Yesterday at nine I met representatives of the Pomurski zilanki Society in Murski Sobota. These are parents of children with autism. This is amazing, ladies and gentlemen, what I've heard, how the health system doesn't work in this area. I was ashamed of my parents in front of me. Although I have promised the question of the Member States, today I have been assured that the Minister has, of course, a 30-day deadline for answering the Rules of Procedure, and of course there will be no answer. Now, I have not studied these 140 pages of the assessment report for the period 2007 to 2014 for the activity of child heart surgery in UKC Ljubljana, which was published in July 2015 - it is said that it will soon be three years - and this expert international commission chaired by Prof. Igor Gregorič wrote in the introduction: “The aim of the professional evaluation of the Child Surgery Service in UKC Ljubljana is to analyse and identify possible deficiencies in the activities of child heart surgery between 2007 and 2014 and to focus in particular on the quality of care and the results of surgery in 2012. The findings of the evaluation show the human resources deficiencies and shortcomings in professional culture, which are responsible for the deterioration of children's heart surgery services in UKC Ljubljana, as well as recommendations for short- and long-term remedial measures." Are we Members here now to oversee? Has the Ministry of Health carried out the conclusions of this assessment or not? The understanding of my mission is that we are responsible and that we are alert to that. We are not qualified to represent professional solutions here, but in some ways we are the government's supervisory body. And just to conclude: “Although it is not possible,” this expert commission “to make definitive observations, the Commission has found: firstly, a small number of surgical interventions per year in children’s heart surgery activities in Ljubljana, secondly, a lack of reliable data entry into the relevant register, and thirdly, significant deviations from internationally published guidelines and standards of care in child’s heart surgery with questionable results of surgical procedures.” Now I ask the 15th time whether it is my duty to point this out - in my understanding that, even though some of the next panellist from the successful coalition will surely be throwing a lot of crap at me. “This is why the Commission decided that the safety of children’s heart patients in children’s heart surgery activities in Slovenia was seriously threatened between 2007 and 2014.” Yeah, that's the time when this government wasn't there, of course. Then this government came, and in my opinion, we should do something to get rid of these findings, because they are negative findings. And now the problem is that we've called this meeting together, and you're accusing us of being premeditated. Look, in sixth grade every child knows that every day is pre-election, except for election day - every day is elective, except for pre-election day. And yet, see, the Medical Chamber is not a voluntary secret society that collects nails, the secret society of PGC. The Medical Chamber has given its own and warned - I do not have enough time now to mention what it has warned about - but it is also concerned about the operation of the Paediatric Clinic as a whole. And it's my job to alert the Minister of Health and ask her for answers. But the Minister of Health is nothing. Dr. Miroslav Cerar, Prime Minister on his way out, nothing. I hope that today someone will read the recommendations that we have proposed again, but no one has read them yet, and I don't know why you've been in the coalition, and maybe even with some help, they'll have comments on these recommendations because they're only good, but you've probably been watching, who's recommending, who's proposing these recommendations, and you said, "Oh, we're going to reject this strictly because we don't care about the problems in the field of baby heart surgery." And for closure. I am signing - I am sorry that there is no respected colleague here, Dr. Simone Kustec Lipicer, because I am signing under her statement, which she said on 18 October 2016 and said, quote: “The health policy under which the Modern Centre Party is signed is very simple and very clear. Healthy citizens are our responsibility." I repeat: "Healthy citizens are our responsibility, you are a public interest which can and will only provide quality, effective and modern public health." Maybe around public health, about understanding public health, we have different views, but these healthy citizens, who are our responsibility, 233,000 waiting today in waiting rooms, 174 000 588 at the beginning of this year, I say okay, and 78 000, pardon, 58 000 887 above the leisure age, is almost 60 000. If I add that up, this is 233 thousand 500, almost as many as the population in Ljubljana, which was counted on 1 July last year, is 288,000. And if necessary, before the elections we will still react to these anomalies that are happening because the Ministry of Health has not done what this Government should do. There is no criticism of nurses who are excellent, self-sacrificing, here is no criticism of doctors, the system is not good, ladies and gentlemen. And we'll fix that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u57	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grims and Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Vice President. Yeah, well, I'm gonna get right on top of it, and I'm not gonna throw up like my buddy Jože Horvat says, and I'm gonna tell him. In her well-known manner, of course, she abuses and twists the sentence in such a way that it sounds good, and kindly says: “Mrs. Erika Girl is probably not an expert in the field of heart surgery, but I will not personally give an assessment.” And what she's trying to say is that she's incompetent. You heard her well what she actually said: “Yesterday I looked at each other and we went to the intensive department together.” She was not the one who found out, nor did she make these findings, but the experts who were involved informed her: “Look at the child, that it looks purely normal and good.” This was her purpose, but you knew this all along, Comrade Jože, but of course such attempts and such a way of discussing do not actually benefit anyone in this National Assembly. Now I have already pointed out to the Health Committee that this is going to happen today. It is bad, of course, when proposers indicate who has done anything wrong in the field of health, they label from minister to individual coalition MPs, one and the other. But when they feel and question themselves, it is either an attack or, rather, we jump out of the box of what has been defined to talk to each other today. My dears, I am very sorry, but most Slovenians and Slovenes, of course, what you are opening up as a problem today is of course not even aware that it is a significantly bigger problem than some want to present. You don't even know what surgery is, what cardiology is, what intensive therapy is, you throw it all together in the same basket. It didn't start at the part where we have our current problem today, that's cardiology. It started at the part where we actually deal with congenital heart failures, and of course with surgery alone. And she treated herself and dragged herself through the same years. All we talk about is who's responsible, who should have done it, and we don't really say the heart of the problem that actually happened. Although I made it very clear on the committee, you know, it's not a problem and it's not about children, as some people like to say, but it's about money, it's about money, and it's about money, and it's about money that some individuals really smell and like it. In the end, I will also, of course, define what is the main problem that the National Assembly should deal with and will also have to deal with in the next term if this happens. Then I'll tell you what I mean. But I must say that, of course, the names, those that appear through history, are actually more or less clear. In fact, there is a problem if we do not deal with these individuals. This is about the same as in the sports team: we have team cooperation, because in this case of course we have to go for team cooperation, we have one athlete, which is, say, very good, then we have others that are also good, but he gets out and he's the peak and the star on this team and of course he has one small problem – he's a spyderber inside the team. Then the coach must decide whether his entire team will suffer and everything will go badly and will be poor results, whether he will have to do the best, even though he is good, for the cost of not being able to use his skills and skills, simply eliminate so that the team can do well. And then we come, if I put this to a particular problem, a name that appears all the time in the history of the problems in this area, and no one wants to mention it. But there's a little mention there, but it's actually a good time to say it out loud. This is Dr. Podnar, who, of course, is known there, on that side very well, and in a number of things are also aligned with him. It is also interesting that it never appears in the story as a direct problem, although even the international commission provides one very interesting “case” and this says very clearly and says with the following example Doctor A overestimates his abilities or in some way to misjudge what happens to almost everyone in his career, for some we know we will never know, but for some we will never know, but most doctors such that they are not the most happy to see it happen to them, but they remember it and they know that they must never do it again. [[…]] And the commission finds out that this doctor A did this. Doctors B and C, however, were the ones who knew this, but because of the poor communication simply by Doctor A, they did not even warn that what we really do not want to happen, and this is to the death. Of course, it's Doctor A's fault, but nothing happens to doctors B and C. Nothing happens to them. It happened at the end of the praises today in the newspaper, a major interview by Dr. Veseto, who is one of the B and C doctors, where he explains in large and wide terms, for which he basically resigned. And, of course, we have this tsunami of this Dr. Podnar who is actually destroying and doing amazing things, but nothing ever happens to him. Mrs Godec has today mentioned and provoked one of the Members to say, for God's sake, whether it is even possible that one of the doctors who resigned may work more expensive in this new centre. Yeah, she's the one who turns out to be the problem. I will tell you where the national problem is, of course, which we all abuse or abuse, better said by Mr Šabeder on the Committee on Health. He makes the next sentence very clear, he says: “We have a problem that we will really have to solve. This is the monopoly of doctors who have brought him to a point where they can even blackmail him at some point." I hope to claim that some doctors who have resigned – well, since they are only three – would be happy to be given abroad at these years? [[…]] Come on, break it! Oh, come on! What he's going to do abroad, and what he's going to do abroad, he's going to be happy! No, he'd like to stay here, he'd still like to work here further, just he'd like to come up with a business contract for the same higher-paying services. What they wanted all along was to get what foreign doctors were getting when they came to the Clinical Center. And this kind of blackmail, if it happens, is a serious problem and this is a national problem that we need to talk about in the National Assembly. And that's what I'm afraid of. You'll say we don't have that yet. Go take a look at orthopaedics, we already have one example of such contracts. Let it happen that tomorrow the urologists, five, six urologists in the clinical center, will agree to resign and appear in three weeks, when everything is already going to happen, when, of course, there will be an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where they will discuss again who is to blame for the six urologists, I make up, and, as an example, I will resign. However, these urologists arrive at the clinical center on the administration in three weeks and say, we are willing to work with a business contract for this price to solve the problem. This monopoly is that monopoly that is dangerous to the Republic of Slovenia. This is a national problem that needs to be cleared up. But this national problem didn't work overnight. This national problem has lasted a number of years. It began, I will say, practically 15 years ago, when specializations began to be limited and, of course, doctors were not on time depending on their departure, of course, new ones came with new specializations and preparations because a particular selection was made. We have warned and proved this many times. When she received the Medical Chamber, practically in the hands of decision-making who will be working in the country, she practically decided on prestigious things, which area will become prestigious in the Republic of Slovenia. The other thing that seems important to me and I have to point out to her, I must say that I am extremely disappointed, today in Del I am reading a statement by the President of the Medical Chamber on this subject that no one will tell me that we are now flying out of the box again, what we agreed to discuss today. And she says the following sentence, quote the journalist: “Zdenka Cebašek Travnik warned that after the departure of home doctors the treatment of children with congenital heart failures will no longer be safe. However, it considers that the management of the UKC should follow the recommendations of the Gregorič Commission, conclude a contract with a foreign centre rather than with individual doctors. Five foreign doctors cannot replace 20 domestic doctors," she said, “and it would be better to send all children abroad for treatment.” Wait, where have I read this before? Where I read that one of the proposals that we are actually reading and was not adopted on the Health Committee where they say in fact: “Let us send all the children by plane under the emergency with Falcon” because it sounds better “to treat abroad in order to solve this problem.” Excuse me, I'm increasingly sure, by the way, I don't give a shit who's president of the Medical Chamber as long as it speaks and works only on the level of the Medical Chamber and their statutes. The moment, however, when the Medical Chamber is also an organization with public authority and which, with its statements, can also influence public opinion and conviction, because the President of the Medical Chamber is not anyone, and, of course, it also scares and says that the treatment of children is no longer safe in the Republic of Slovenia, forgive me, but such President of the Medical Chamber should seriously consider whether he is still performing this function. But let the housing organization handle this on its own. Doctors should be the ones to say or indeed make such statements to represent their interests and their views. Yesterday, when I was at the Clinical Center and I was talking to the doctors, I didn't get this feeling that the treatment of children was dangerous in the Clinical Center. But how to explain this to parents who by definition fear for their child. As the leader of the parliamentary group said, even if it is only a high temperature, it is normal and logical and it is not bad. But the parent who takes care of the child and then the media first then backs up the President of the Medical Chamber, that the treatment of children in Slovenia is dangerous, forgive me, I think someone's gone crazy. And that is what we point out and ask whether it is really necessary for us to also pour oil on the fire with such moves. I don't care if it's pre-election or involuntary or anything. At this point, we're talking about the real thing. 3 June will be the end of the elections. I wonder who's gonna come here again to the National Assembly with the kind of work you're gonna have to do. The doctors themselves have enough problems. In the final phase, I'm going to say, the doctor's statement is the next, five foreign doctors can't replace 20 domestic doctors. Nothing says which 20 domestics left, I know about three, of course, she speaks probably, I don't know, I can't imagine what she imagined, but about some international standards, we're talking about 20 doctors together with specialists who are supposed to be working on intensive therapy, if she thought about this problem, it's essentially a problem being solved, and it's essentially also satisfying in its own way, but those who think that this can be solved in one month, two months, in one year, in five years are wrong. You can't. You can't do it that way. It is true, however, that certain things must, of course, be continuously monitored and done very clearly. And I'm confident today, and even after talking to a lot of people in the hallway of the clinical center, I'm glad these doctors went because they've been under pressure for years, and I believe that a lot of doctors will even come back to work who didn't even want to work anymore, even because of these doctors. And I'm sorry, it's not about the kids, it's not about the kids. In this case it is not children, but children are, of course, the greatest concern that we all actually advocate, regardless of political affiliation. Go on, excuse me, for the money. Where is this humanitarianism she was talking about and the compassion Mrs Ludmila was talking about when she said she didn't believe that doctors didn't have compassion. Excuse me, if someone says to me, no, the reporter asks him and says, I'm appalled at these statements, he tells me, yes, what are your obligations to understand the extent of your work, you can give them to me. And Dr. Joy says that every year we do about 4400 outpatient examinations in patients with congenital heart failures, heart muscle diseases, about 500 patients are treated in the ward, 5,000 ultrasound examinations of the heart, an additional 500 ultrasound tests carried out by unborn children, and a similar list of hundreds and thousands of children they are doing. Where is this compassion now?Oh, my God! Where is this responsibility?Oh, my God! We've been talking about surgeons all the time, and I'm sorry now, not the cardiovascular, but the cardiologists or this department have actually become a serious problem. You speak in your proposal of conclusions that doctors should immediately discuss at least to the end until they go away to do their job. They're legally bound to do that. What we will now accept here are the proposals for recommendations and so on. This same chamber we're talking about today, and I've mentioned it a few times, and it talks and scares people, and on the other hand, it doesn't say out loud that she said she's not going to be doing any more controls, professional controls. Yes, someone for God's sake in the Slovenian space is in charge of professional supervision, if not the Medical Chamber and by law. Extraordinary and regular controls to be carried out. They just say they won't do it. Yes, if they do not, then we must seriously consider and change the law, who will and, of course, give it to someone else. I have said years ago that it is sometimes necessary to consider that certain controls should be moved into a special group composed of doctors but separated from the Medical Chamber, since it is increasingly observed that the Medical Chamber does not do its work at all, but is essentially another additional union under the cover of the name of the Medical Chamber. If that's the case, if not, let them convince me otherwise. As you say one thing, of course I have other information. And here we have a serious problem. The problem was first cooked by doctors, and that's where it all started, and that's where it has to end. But it is true, of course, that we have a problem, as some say, you know, I will give you, and of course I will conclude with this, and I will also give you a very illustrative example. I was there when we discussed this report as discussed by Mrs Godec, an international commission that was essentially addressing the problem at the time. Mr Gregorič then made it clear in his report that, in fact, it is difficult to expect overnight to make this replacement of the doctors we need in this area and, of course, that it is necessary to educate and so on, of course, to cooperate with different centres at this time or any decision will already fall. Then the Commission listed five different proposals or conclusions on what are possible options, which are better, which are less better, and so on. But the irony is that Dr. Gregorič is now facing the same challenge that he set for himself years ago, and he is now faced with a problem similar to that of the then administration when faced with these problems. Of course, when some people now say what is important mediation, say out loud who was in the group of mediators - then the administration of the Paediatric Clinic and at the same time Dr. Podnar. When did this discussion or mediation end - when Dr. Podnar asked: “Yes, who will be in this new centre?” He wanted to know if he would. And that's why the case ended. Sorry, I'm sorry. Half the country's dealing with this now because two or three doctors cooked it. Fear of parents is justifiable. The policy of abuse and the media is as well known as ever - bad news is good news, but there is no good news at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u59	A representative of the candidates, Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u60	I am more and more pleased that we called this meeting because now they are pre-eminently lowering their percentages there in the SMC. But, look, Comrade Jani, for example, I don't know Dr. Podnar, just from the newspapers and so on. Mr. Dr. Happy to know, just from the newspapers, recently he started following me on Twitter, and that's all I know about these people. I didn't go with you yesterday because you obviously had an internal SMC. On Friday, I expressed my desire to go along, and it was said that we would be informed of the visit to the Paediatric Clinic, and that was not the case. I also very much thanked the experts of the Health Committee yesterday for notifying me of the visit, and I did not receive Iva. Okay, you had a private visit and you heard one page. I don't know if you've heard maybe the other side, because as far as I know, marriage is, if two people are fighting and splitting up, they're both guilty, it's not just one. So it's probably not just Dr. Podnar and Dr. Happy that they went, it's probably on the other side, I don't know if it's always one of them. But you didn't say that, say, about Mr. Uroš Mazic, if we're going to deal with doctors. For example, Tomaž Podnar led cardiology from 1999 to 2012, then reenlisted to this job. First, he was appointed for six months as a doer of duty; in April 2012, the invitation was repeated; in addition to Podnar, a cardiologist named Uroš Mažič applied. The Director-General of the UKC appointed Mazič to the scientific position, although he did not meet the tender conditions, as he had no managerial experience, and the professional references of the candidates applied were completely uncomparable. For example, Professor Mazič is only a master, and he is also supposed to be involved in a series of professional disagreements and disciplinary offences, which Kenda was informed of. Well, Mr Kenda was also in some process at the time of the directorship of Kopach and Pfeifer, they found faults, they wanted him to go. No, Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc stepped aside from Canda and left him where he was. So much for responsibility again, isn't it? And these matters continue in 2013 when the call was re-published, they are registered to Podnar, Vesel and Mazič, again gets Mazič, although having fewer competences and so on. So there's probably two sides. But there is now a typical Slovenian lynching of those who have misrepresented the bad situation in UKC Ljubljana, they should be lynched. These should be kept to the lowest, on the bottom, that all these doctors are now guilty of leaving the poor children there without care. This is one of the debates that has been sent - to lynch doctors who warn. And the same thing was happening on our investigative committee - it was necessary to blacken Dr. Night and Dr. Antljet because they pointed out the things that we then looked into. These should be lynched, with anonymities, one way or another. Typical Slovenian. Without looking in the mirror and saying we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't do it, we didn't, we didn't systematically guarantee it. It was said that the National Assembly must provide money, proper legislation, and leadership. What did you do as a government? Yes, you are. There's one thing. You've secured the money. You threw 136 million dollars to the suppliers with the intervention law. And Milojka Kolar Celarc gave all the authority to set up the director of the Ljubljana Clinic Centre or director. Alone. Without the government's consent, which, for the first time in history, you've done so, with the intervention law, you've thrown away the money and given it all the authority not to have the government's consent. This is what I ordered. The legislation failed. You're not. Not two thirds of what Cerar was talking about yesterday, two thirds away. Leaderships, you assured them, just something, you had them four times at the UKC, not to talk about other hospitals what you were doing. In Cel you replaced the director who had a positive situation because there is not one financial report they did not accept, this director is by SMC, now she speaks to Cel that she is going because she will no longer deal with it and she cares little. [[Incomprehensible]] And he's walking around the hospital terrorizing nurses who are, why aren't there, etc. That's what he does. So, it's always about bad relationships, it's the two sides, and today you've only presented one. I've tried you, tried you, but I don't know one or the other, I won't judge any doctor, no doctor, but I can judge the Ministry and the hospital management. [[Incomprehensible]] But what you do is you deal with doctors who warn you that there is no irregularity, but it is extremely inappropriate on the part of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u61	The word is Replica, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u62	My colleague Godec, always cheers me up with her cartridges on this, will, of course, need to be corrected because she seems to have misunderstood or deliberately deceived her. There was no private visit at the clinical center, and you know it, colleague Godec. However, it is a fact that the notification was sent to the Chairman of the Health Committee. Don't ask me, but there's only one thing I know that when we were informed that the members were invited by the clinical center, we responded. We waited long enough, Monday was the last day, today I have a meeting to call after your second week at the clinical center or how. We did yesterday because it was the last day because I wanted to see what the real situation was before this debate. In principle, however, I visit a private clinic only when I need treatment or if I visit someone. I didn't see any patients yesterday. I was there on business. So, colleague Godec, what other colleague are you gonna have to find for your own accounts, and we already know what time it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u63	The representative of the proposer, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u64	Yes, it was interesting to hear this indeed, colleague Möderndorfer. I believe you're probably an expert in this field, medical, for at least six years listening to you know everything, and I have to say that I expected you to make an order in these six years. Why? Because you are one of the better Members, both in Positive Slovenia and now in SMC and you know how things work. Maybe you've been to a world of institutions before, and you know what they're about. But listen, we've been waiting for people to fix or improve their condition for six years. 2013 was the first time we met here when Dr. Mishaly was terminated. And then he was looking for solutions. We know who the ministers were back then. Even the Minister of Health was difficult to obtain. One left after a few days, after a few days. And it seems to me to be in the strongest party and to do nothing in the field of child heart cardiology and in other areas, I find it extremely irresponsible. Really. This is extremely responsible for me personally. Since 2012, I believe that Mr Gantar, the then Minister, has asked the question of when the information backbone in the UKC will be unified. 2012. Did it unite? They won't say if she's united, but as far as I know, things haven't been unified, at least as far as pediatrics is concerned. I'm not talking about other departments because I was, because I made sure that the matter was unified, but in the field of pediatrics, I can tell you in the fall time, things aren't uniform. Six years, different systems, yes, and you have to go with a test to, from a doctor to a doctor when you come with a child to pediatrics. I wish it were so uniform and that health would have been so advanced in these six years that even pediatrics would have one single system, a single spine, that when you come with a child, you can see all the tests and read what the situation is. Not that you come in with one file of results, and then you don't even know which doctor to show as a parent. 6 years since 2012. And that's why it's so much more exciting and, of course, that politics abuses, it's been said. [[…]] I am not now, I don't know what was meant, what was the policy of abuse, or the one that leads, or the one that points out mistakes, which is more abuser of the health system in Slovenia. I am convinced that he is being abused by those who run the health policy in Slovenia, and it seems to me that it is necessary to stress here in particular what we in Slovenia all the time warn that he is not guilty or the one who warns, or the one who commits sin, but the one who warns of sin. That's how it is in Slovenia. It's not the one who stole it, it's the one who said it was them who stole it. We need to first figure out who the one who gave the fake is. We also had it on the venous cords investigation. [[…]] It wasn't the content of the criminal charge, it was what he said at the witness hearing. We can't go into interrogation yet because we haven't figured out who reported it anonymously. That's what they were doing when they were investigating the cords, who leaked the anonymity. And it took almost three months and they didn't figure it out. And when the question was, did you go through all the bank accounts? No, we haven't, because we're finding out who reported it anonymously. But you know, this is happening in our Slovenian health system. But after six years, I'm sorry, he knew he was going to collapse the system, he knew. I can say that we have warned about this in New Slovenia, and I am sorry that this happened in children's heart surgery, although it showed all the signs. What's the next collapse? I wish it wasn't, but I wish everyone was so sober that they could still look at it and say, "Why do things get stuck?" And we had Radan in the middle, and nothing happened, and the potassium affair and so on, and we've been dealing with these little things all the time, not solving what's most important. Why did this happen? Because someone might have too much ego. The last time the director of UKC said: “The problem is monopolized doctors.” Sure. Why? Since they are monopolized and have a monopolized matter until purchase, this is a lot in the UKC. Who's gonna solve this? Is that what the next minister is waiting for? I think it's going to be the whole country, because if not, we're going to be gradually witnessing how our health system is falling apart, which I still want, and I know it's public, and let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u65	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Ms Irena Grošelj Kosnik and Mr Jernej Vrtovac should be prepared. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u66	Good-bye to all of you again. For a little good will to begin, let me first say that I very well understand the ruling coalition, that I have a great understanding of your actions today and of your words, because bad news is a bad thing, as the old proverb of Slovenia says. And in this case, it is obvious that the situation in Slovenian health is a bad conscience for an extremely severe ruling coalition, and so is the case. But that there was indeed a real panic in the ruling coalition, he also showed the chairman by his leadership when he had not previously warned a colleague who had gravely insulted me not to say another worse word, while then, of course, he tried to limit everything else. So, at least, what I expect is that if it was allowed for the lady to do everything possible, that I would also have the opportunity to respond to all of this, because the words, if the President were to lead correctly, these SMC colleagues, from the ruling coalition, were not only inappropriate and offensive, but also obviously unconstitutional, because the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, after four years, should all know, in particular those who hold the sessions, have two functions. One is legislative and can also be constitutional when it reaches a two-thirds majority and the other is a control function. This is said to take into account the political responsibility, to identify and point out the errors it sees, and then to give its views in this context, to formulate them, to make recommendations to the government and so on. This is a constitutional norm, and whoever speaks against it obviously speaks against the Constitution — either because of ignorance or because of manipulativeness. Either way, it's bad. If we go to the question of responsibility first, then a little later on about the causes of the current situation. Look, under the Government Act, every minister is responsible for the situation in the entire area of his department. This is an objective responsibility, and it is an individual responsibility when this minister himself has the right to put someone somewhere and something gets stuck there, because then it is his personal responsibility. In this case, when we are talking about the situation in the largest health institution in Slovenia, the Minister has the right to place the leading person, the Director-General, under your intervention law. It is not only her objective responsibility, but also her subjective responsibility for the current situation, which has already been shared, because two interpretations have been given against this minister in the same term due to the catastrophically poor health situation. Not only in this surgical department that takes care of the most vulnerable, the youngest, for those who are born with a congenital heart failure, but throughout health care, things are catastrophic, ladies and gentlemen. Today, doctors do not hope to write emergency leaflets because they are afraid of controls, even if they know it is to the detriment of the patient. The waiting species have been extended twice, even three times. And that's the real state. And who's responsible for that? It is again the responsibility of the Minister, who is responsible for the system in such a way that the system works. If it is necessary to amend the law, it must simply propose appropriate amendments to the legislation and it has not done so, at least not sufficiently. And if it is not able to do so, it must be able to provide at least enough money within the government, so that money is spent rationally, where it is essential to preserve health, life, if you want, human health. But this minister hasn't done any of this successfully. The chaos was only escalating. Twice, a proposal was made against her for her release, an interpretation. Twice, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you have protected it with your votes, and you have taken on a part of your responsibility, each for yourself, individually, for the situation we are talking about today, for the situation that is currently affecting children, for parents, and in many areas of health, people are unfortunately dying. These are tragedies, ladies and gentlemen, and you are responsible for this because you have protected someone who has obviously not been able to do his job. This is a matter of responsibility, and that is why the colleague who had previously entangled her tongue – that was her fluent singing – could indeed be ashamed, but it should be ashamed of all of you, because you were repeatedly alerted to a bad condition in the last term and did not act within your powers. That's your jurisdiction. You could have relieved the minister, you could have relieved the Minister of Health. If she was protected by the President of the Government, it's even worse. And you didn't do it. This is also said to be your personal responsibility for the state of Slovenian health. And with that burden you're leaving here now, and that's why this panic here today is so bad, because you all know that because you're smart people. And here you are bluffing and speaking all kinds of nonsense to divert attention from what is most sad and tragic, that you have not done your job properly, that you have proved unable to lead the country in the direction of safety, health, the well-being of people. You failed on the whole line. The most, unfortunately, in the same area as safety, where people are most sensitive, is in the area of health. Unfortunately, as is evident today in those who are most vulnerable, in small children who are also the most valuable, this is the future of society. They should not be harmed by any time of the Minister to coordinate interests. It shouldn't hurt any money to make things right. It wasn't done. This is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. So much for the question of responsibility. Now for the reasons. Before that, one of the members of the coalition threw all the blame on three doctors. This is one of the possible debates. But, ladies and gentlemen, is it correct? And someone thought that doctors expected all the circumstances they needed to carry out their work successfully to ensure that it was their legitimate interest. Just as it is, of course, the legitimate interest of the management of each healthcare institution in reducing costs as much as possible. But the whole point of the democratic system is that it aligns your interests. And if someone in the leadership isn't able to coordinate them, then it's a matter of action. And if the Minister does not act, the Government and Members and Members and the Minister should act. And we're back on the question of responsibility. The problem is that the system must work so that the system does not break on patients, at least when it comes to the youngest, babies, young children, those with congenital heart failure. You've tolerated all of this. That's what you knew. Today you are turning some of these facts very badly and thus concealing your own bad conscience. I'm sorry. Now why didn't the Minister succeed? Obviously, organisationally, she does not have the qualities that she should have as a minister. She probably didn't have any real associates either. She got them from a coalition. That's why I understand now that some of you are a little nervous, even when you're running this session, because we all know which party there is most of. But that does not relieve you of this responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. But this is about life, about human health. If there was nothing else you could do at a time when such massive amounts of money were thrown out the window, at least we would provide the most necessary money for these most urgent things. Why did you run out of money? I will give three examples, including the reply of the lady, who specifically mentioned these three. The first was the intervention law. This law was only for the benefit of suppliers. You all know that. You let one part of the entrepreneurs who has a monopoly in some way, which is not right. Every monopoly is bad, but if it's a monopoly in health care, in society, on the market, anywhere, in education, if you want these monopolies acting as each other's well-coordinated cartel [[?]] Just get some extra money. What exactly is the general health problem? That there's a worse leeches on it. I'll afford the red leeches so we can be clear. Some of these were investigated by the Commission of Inquiry and argued accordingly. At the expense of the patients in Slovenia, the owner, for example, is one of the newspapers that does not do anything else, rather than spilling manure on those who think otherwise, in order to defend the monopoly of those who then, of course, channel the money again. Now, this is the money that should be for patients. Which should be directed, if you want, at the final stage in health care, if you do not spend it in this way, if these leechs are cut off, it is also intended for these small patients. So here's the first source. Again under the responsibility of the Minister. Because if they hang in health care as full red leeches and channel mountains of money out of health care, the money that should be, should be meant to save lives, but if you want, even for the salaries of doctors, for the salaries of nurses, for the wages of at least those who are making an extremely self-sacrificing effort night and day for their patients, not all of them, but I know that many, if the Minister is not able to do so, it is only a huge problem for themselves. Of course, money was spent in many other ways. Look at just one example of how this health care is affected. Now the whole circus was because I just mentioned that some NGOs such as the Peace Institute should stop funding from public funding for those based on LBTQ ideology. These are the people who are promoting the import of illegal migrants, keeping them here, helping to contain them, and, on the other hand, by their theory of sex, helping to make a number of frivolous decisions about what kind of operation to change the sex that normally does not, of course, teach them, end up with the suicide of this person, because you can't fight nature. Look at the number of suicides associated with these operations that are expensive. And you won't believe what the taxpayers pay to a large extent. Some even completely. And by what logic then these organisations are financed from the budget. And then these organizations are really these non-governance types of peace institute at LBTQ based ideology. Then they really consume money for safety, health, small patients, firefighters, athletes, culturers. They actually eat it up, and when you warn her about it, what happens. The entire media orchestra, which is again financed from health money, even from what we've seen in the case of an investigator, engages to then hide right behind firefighters, if you want to, folklore, for athletes, for everyone else, so you don't see that you're the first to eat their money. This money, which should be developed there, should be intended for security, should be directed to firefighters, should be directed at sportsmen, culturers, all who maintain the Slovenian essence, helping to develop Slovenia, not those who undermine values and undermine, if you wish, even the core of the Slovenian people. This is perfectly legitimate to propose. But then manipulate it and turn it upside down, but of course it's cowardly. That means you don't want to face any arguments. More money should be earmarked for firefighting companies, more money should be spent on athletes, more money should be spent on health care, more money should be used to treat small patients with heart failure. And this money needs to be taken where it is thrown in a harmful way through the window, to those NGOs, which are based on LBTQ-P ideology, do not do anything other than developmental damage to Slovenia. This does not mean that they must be abolished or that we want to restrict the right of speech to anyone. Where, I am absolutely for everyone to say what they want, just not to finance it from taxpayers' money. This should be intended for health, for health care, for higher pensions, for firefighting, and for all those involved in safety. Well, the second source associated with this is the lady herself, who said yes, but who else saw any migrants. You know, this is how it is, just yesterday is Mrs Sabina Hornjak, we can just say by name and surname, because the head of the civil initiative at the seaside met at the seaside instead of the bathing pool, a bunch of migrants. She took pictures of it, posted it on her profile, and today her Facebook profile cut it off after it had been one hundred divisions in the back. So, someone's already doing Internet censorship. The SD Youth Forum, along with other leftists, already predicts that if they are re-elected, there will be absolute internet censorship, and then the Internet police will be chasing all hate speech, so of course they will say what hate speech is. This is the worst threat to democracy I have heard in the last period in the Republic of Slovenia, and this is indeed a serious threat to democracy. If freedom of speech is no longer available, democracy is just a farce, ladies and gentlemen. But the truth is that now virtually everyone who enters Slovenia, like illegal migrants who break across the border, is asking for asylum here. And you need to know that every asylum-seekers, even if everything is rejected in the end, even if the vast majority is, clearly unjustifiable, even theoretically unjustifiable, even if everything is refused, it costs EUR 2 000 per month, 1963, that we are accurate, EUR per month, according to the Court of Auditors. 50,000 of them are coming right now towards Slovenia, at the annual level it's a billion. But you know what you could do with a billion in Slovenian medicine. How many departments for the treatment of these children with congenital heart failure could be opened, and the rest for firefighters as well as for athletes, and also for the military, and for the police, and for all other security services, and for science, and for culture, but for the right culture to understand, the one that is a Slovenian tradition that strengthens Slovenian tradition, which strengthens Slovenian confidence. For all of this, the question is, how do you put the money? Ladies and gentlemen, we are back to where we started - at your responsibility. For you, in the coalition, have made decisions about money, all four years. Practically all of our amendments have always been rejected, but if they were for health care, for firefighters, whatever we've already proposed. Practically everything was taken. Such a monopoly of the ruling coalition as you have made it has never been in the past 25 years of the existence of the National Assembly. But that is why, ladies and gentlemen, your responsibility is only yours and so much greater. And that's why I'm going to end up with your colleague's words, which is why I understand your panic today, because you may be rightly ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u67	Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I'm going to limit myself to baby heart surgery, which is today's topic. And today I have heard from you that it is our duty to warn you that it is our job to control the government. This is certainly true, and I can fully agree. And while we agree to that, we hear the sentences and words, the collapse of the system, the children have no safe and sufficient quick treatment, they have no reliable personnel, those who have allowed it for four years must be punished in elections. So, we are talking here now, today too, about political accounting, about some political pre-election goals, and I am not sure that such goals will help to make this spiral, which is now at the bottom, unfortunately at the bottom, turn upside down, and we politicians here today are responsible for our words. We are also responsible for parents who tremble at the lives of their children and who we know are able to manipulate them easily, to inspire their mistrust, and to instill fear in them. Today we have heard a lot about the report, about the appropriateness of dealing with heart failure and heart surgery in the period 2007 to 2014. I will not repeat the details of this report, but the fact is that this report shows that dealing with these congenital errors has essentially been dying on meals for the past 20 years. Unfortunately, unfortunately, especially those children and parents and today, a few days before the elections, we are looking for a sinful goat to expose it to the soil that it has not reacted in the last three years since this report was published. So between our words, we want to warn that we want to make a contribution to how things will improve, and while we are working here in this room, there is a very big difference, and somehow we are similar to the driver, who turns left and right. And if we were to do this, I would point out that dealing with children with congenital heart failures is a very comprehensive story, of course very professional and very comprehensive. This means that those doctors who, in the first place, wanted to abuse their position, introduced a bad climate, prevented teamwork and shared responsibility, that we also have another level of leadership, the right medium level, which is also responsible, that they could create monopolies of doctors and were unable to prevent it, here I am thinking mainly of the management of the pediatric clinic and also of the hierarchical highest level that creates the conditions, this is this systemic level, and I think that this is the very level that I think that it has not failed if the Institute for the Treatment of Children and the Treatment of These Children was established last year and is now this institution on the right path to live, I think it is our political responsibility not to throw this institution under its feet just because it is a pre-choice time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u69	Representative of the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u70	Let's listen to what we said today. No one throws pollen under the feet of the new institute, the questions are only in the place that the profession also asks, which doctors will operate in Slovenia within this institute. I don't know how many times I've told Dr. Gregorič, who has been recognized in America globally in this area, he's bitten into a very sour apple and hard and I don't know what else, worm. And the very self-restraint of these things that are happening in Slovenia but the thought that we have Slovenians or you have in health is completely different than in America, a completely different system, otherwise works, different relationships are different, and no one throws pollen under our feet, but given what this government has done so far, there is a great question, given that this government is leaving on 3 June if this matter will work further and with whom it will work further. And not to deceive, once again, no one wants to harm this institution, but they are asking questions that are in a place that we do not only as Members here, but also professionally and also doctors and UKC and so on. But you're just mixing some fog here again, if we want bad, no, good work, baby heart surgery, but answer us one more time on these damn questions that you don't give, but you're just mixing. And pre-election, colleague, four years is pre-election, every day, every debate here is pre-election and we are not because it is called for before the elections, but because there is a re-emergence of a problem that has already emerged in 2015 with international and so on. We don't want to go out with people like that, we don't want to get bad. I said here myself today that I do not want political accounting, but you keep going back there, constantly in your debates. Once again, Dr. Gregory, I want him to take the matter down, but I'm afraid that when he realizes that it's not everything he thinks it is. Now the colleague.or the Minister of Health laughs and the head backs up and I don't know what it's all about, this ignorance angers this man, this mockery of the questions we've been giving for how long. [[…]] It pisses the man off. Tell me specifically, stop smiling. She's got the government for an hour. She took an hour. She hasn't talked for another minute. Not a minute, not a second, not a second. You're saying that recognized experts from America will come to Slovenia to teach our people. Who? Who, tell me? Who, if everyone's saying young doctors are leaving because they're impossible? Young doctors leave because this government has passed the Law on Medical Services, which rejects it, and the Law on Health Activities, which rejects it. At the meeting of the Health Committee, the young doctor asked Members not to adopt this law. They're leaving. No, you keep pushing your head down and "No, no, it's not true". There we have statistics – doctors between 40 and 50 years of age with us [[?]] It's almost gone. It's all going out. And they say, "Yeah, if you do, what will they do, just walk like that?" Yeah, they're going out, yeah. I know some of them, and I can start to list them by their names, which say the same thing: “Unregulated relationship and ignorance of the Ministry and Government.” You've done this before. At least they met before, and they listened, and this one doesn't want to meet, and the ministry won't answer the letters within the time limit. Look people honestly in the eyes and tell them who will work at this institute, to what extent are these experts, who will teach young people and who are those young people who will come. No, look inside the iPads and cell phones and play dumb or ignorant here in the National Assembly. So, once again, no one wants a bad institution, but I hope that there will be no answer at all, but there is no answer to the question, and that is why there is an even greater fear that this institution will work even further. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u71	Mrs. Jelka Godec, I'm sorry, but I have to tell the public. No one was laughing, no one was just looking at the iPad, and I think you [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Ministry representatives shall be heard. And let's be correct, please, no one laughed and no one waved their heads like you said. Please, come on. We have four more panellists to report. As the first to receive the word, Mr Jernej Vrtovac, like the other Mr Franz Breznik, the third Mr Zvonko Lah and the fourth Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u72	Have a nice day. Look, it's not the Members' fault that this problem definitively escalated during the election campaign. However, if a person does not want to do his job, for which he was elected four years ago, then let him return his monthly earnings back to the state budget and be grateful to him in this way. This story has been going on for a long time and it is not a political issue - if it were a political issue, then they would be politicians - but it is a question that is also the responsibility of politics. And if politics is responsible for anything, then politics must also deal with it and discuss how it will solve it. I do not want to assume the responsibility that this Government is solely responsible for the situation, but it hides from 2014 onwards. That's the way it is. Those who rule bear a greater share of responsibility than those who are in opposition or elsewhere. Nor would it be fair to talk in this way, but since 2015, since we received this international report on the table, and we have also discussed this in the Parliamentary Committee on Health, and since then there have been no things that should have been done. This was said, as opposed to representatives of the Ministry, those responsible for UKC Ljubljana also took the blame. Just a few words. Before a colleague said that everything was under control The director of UKC Ljubljana also said that there was a problem, even some employees there said there was a problem. [[…]] “The decline in children’s heart surgery activities in UKC Ljubljana was probably due to the lack of culture of denial, lack of openness to criticism, and so on” was recorded in this report since 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously this professional and administrative non-culture has continued since 2015 and, therefore, we are several years behind it, so today, we are witnessing a complete breakdown or a breakdown of the children's cardiology programme. For this spread, I agree, there is not only one culprit, but in addition to those responsible in UKC Ljubljana and the responsible doctors bear a large part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Health in particular. I claim, from 2015 Milojka Kolar Celarc and her team in the past all other ministers with their teams. Since this is not just a problem, I agree, only with the current time and a fully ruling policy. And since 2015, a number of things could have been done on the basis of this international report. It's been three years. Three years have passed, and today we are discussing what would be the right thing to do then, why we did not do so at the time. We are talking about inefficiency and who is responsible for this inefficiency can take responsibility and what measures are being taken to further improve the situation. This must be discussed by responsible policy. [[sign for the end of the debate]] The one who doesn't want to talk about it, then that's his problem. And Madam Secretary of State, let's talk about efficiency and I also want to hear your answers below.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u73	Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Daniel Krivec. Mr. Breznik, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u74	Thank you very much. So today, a meeting is being held mainly on the priorities of a society. I think that individual health is one of the highest priorities of any healthy society, the health of those young ones, we can say, those who are also dependent on older people, and especially children are even more of a priority. I think that all the debates that have been going on today, most of the colleagues and colleagues have at least been in place to a large extent, but of course there have been some extraordinary words. I think that a colleague from the SMC who said that he was alone in the mouth, namely those who were warned about the crime, especially the Minister of Health, that she is completely lost, that she has no control, that in Slovenia, above all, there is a great problem of systemic nature. [[Incomprehensible]] It's a system of corruption and a system that doesn't work. These are the two points at which we opened up the darkness and both, we can say, both interpretations. Today, when someone is speaking, who has been reading the ballots for four years, in advance, so Members who have never even prepared for a meeting that last month can say that they have put in some completely unharmonised laws from some of their areas where they live to make some so-called advertisements in recent months, they have been doing literally in the last month of this reference chaos here in the National Assembly where they might still be dealing with priorities. I repeat the word "priority." Individual health is a priority. The Government's priority was to throw Janez Jansho out of Parliament for the first half of the year. Then a number of laws, registration of bicycles with an auxiliary engine, how some companies earn with technical checks, how to employ a whole range of new bureaucrats in public and state administration. They did it. Again, the second priority was how to build a second track at twice the price and the entire calvary was running again. It was then a priority that public money should be re-created by a new institution, the guardian of discrimination. See, we have the Ombudsman, who has four deputies, one of the deputies could only deal with discrimination and the entire service part of bureaucrats, which is operating within the framework of the Ombudsman, could also offer the so-called service bureaucrat services to the Ombudsman, i.e. discrimination. No, we are, this government said a new body needs to be set up, and today this body finds that all the money it gets, that there are too few people, and that you need more bureaucrats. So all this time, the transition left, all the time this transition, is spending public money just for things that aren't the priorities of some society at all. The priority of our society must be, first and foremost, the health of an individual, especially in a smaller population of people where every health, every alarming health of a child, is extremely important. We already have very few children, so we have to offer these children the highest level of health care all the time at their developmental levels and then also at the adult level. That's why I think they're completely lost in space and time all the time. When I look at these ballots, this competition for Prezhich's reading badge right here in the National Assembly, it's sad. And then a colleague insults her colleague Godcheva, who didn't even spend her free time with her family. She's been here all along, proving this health corruption, millions and millions of euros that have left. The mother of two children, a woman who graduated from physics, was probably already told in a nursery as a child that she could logically conclude, and it was one tougher study. And today she is insulted by a representative who has been reading the lists, because today she has also read these pamphlets, which ended at the end of her career in a certain age, a third league college, and today she regrets. I'm sorry. You're gonna open my mouth. My whole family was involved in medicine or veterinary medicine. My cousin, for example, is one of the most recognized orthopedics in Slovenia. My father, for example, was even the roommate of the most renowned cardio surgeon of all time, given by the Slovenian nation, that was Marko Godina, who spent the entire time together in a study in Zagreb. I can tell you that a large part of the family are nurses, doctors, vets, pharmacists. Thus, in the framework of my great family, in Slovenian Gorica, I was able, despite not studying medicine, to familiarise myself with and live with humanity from my childhood steps forward. And today I'm listening to these pamphlets, listening to people who are lost in space and time, they have no objections, except their insults. They insult Pojbič's colleague, who fights in his poor environment for people who are on the verge of survival, spends all day in the field, all his time, money and energy, we can say, literally put there on the ground. And these people, who were created as a media project, thought that government could drive like a media project, so, in some mirage, in some village of Pomakin, where they would show people that now that they're in power, even though they haven't done anything to make something better now. Look, the health system is falling apart because the Slovenian public health system, so-called Eartherič-Miklavčič's brutal model, I call this corrupt left-wing political work, which has survived this transition, but of course it does not work. One part of the scene was discovered by a colleague of Godchev, a second part, a banking system, a colleague of Logar and more such matters could open up, Telekom and other things, but he would have gone too far. Let's go back to cardiac cardiology, which mainly dictates a cadre that we don't have today. My colleague Godcheva said well, we can sign the best contract, with the best cardiologists, heart surgery centers in the world, if we don't have people to study. And now let's take a look at one of the studies. Usually all these doctors go to high school first, sometimes even to a health school, but most often they end up in our second school in Styria, naturally oriented, later at least six years of medical study, then they follow in surgery at least six years of specialization studies. After a study of specialization, usually a few years of professional work, additional specializations for so-called special cardiology, which is a child who again dictates new knowledge, new admissions. And in this context again hundreds of some operations and then you get to the most complicated operations in children, to the so-called special operations, very difficult conditions, including congenital severe conditions. Look, individuals are almost 40 years old. At this stage, a Slovenian doctor, if he has had excellent mentors all the time, can start working alone as a surgeon. So we have an individual who's been limited to 15, 20 years so he can do the best he can. And in this time at this stage, see, the so-called Eartheric-Miklavčič's pajdaska socialist model of our health system of course does not work. It does not encourage these doctors, either existentially or materially, in terms of their equipment. That money ran out. He ran away for everything I explained. He has run for irrelevant institutions in Slovenia, for many agencies in this transition, for overpaid material, for many medicines, many, we can also say, services on the so-called operating tables and in all other areas, to the last diaper for immobile patients. Most surgeons, not just cardiovascular surgery for children, we lost and this loser, you can look without going abroad, you can look at the marina in Portorož, you can go to Umag, you can go to Dalmatia. Someone who's retired has 14 wholes, I think, 7 meters long yacht, former minister, 650 thousand euros at least. That's what I think is just a five-, six-, seven-thousand-euro attachment to such a yacht. And that's where this money gets lost. So, pursuit systems don't work. The institutions don't work. On the other hand, young people, the top staff we have trained for more than 20 years, which is now, we can say, at the threshold of bringing this back to society, because of these non-systemic measures completely, I can say, the bereaved is leaving. However, look, today the attack on doctors, including by SMC, colleague of Möderndorfer, what they think or have nothing humanity in them, I think as far as I know them, even nurses, including the servers, have humanity. I was alone a few weeks ago in the hospital. Look, for small wages, they have humanity up to the last. They're ready to be underrated for 5 years, 10 years, 15 years, 20 years. You know, at some point, if you live in a family like me, you have some normal upbringing, when you see people coming home, when someone, say, a cousin, when he's trying, and the patient dies, and you live, you can't somehow remove these problems at work, just like you can always do in politics, but you come home with these problems, you come home with memories, you always have doubts, or you've done the best in your professional work. I can't imagine a heart surgeon in a child where they can do their best, but this child dies. You can say, this stress in the workplace, the saddened one, when you see parents there who lost a child and you on the other hand, trying with your expertise to save this child's life as much as possible or to prolong his life. And today, you know, to say it's the doctors' fault, it's not the system's fault. And the system is called Miklavčič Zemljarič's socialist system, and this is where the Slovenian health system has been living for the last 40 years. Not just in self-reliance. And here's the brutal corruption of these people. And everyone who's inside here, everyone who's ever raised your hand against the interpretation of such a minister, who comes out of this system, is guilty. You may be guilty of a whole series of lives of people who may have died because they came too late or even those who will now find cancer in one of these next weeks, we can say, at another developmental stage where someone has already had metastases. You're all guilty of this system. And we're also guilty that we haven't done enough. Today, however, someone is profaning Slovenian doctors to choose to go abroad. No, look, it's a sign that this system is falling apart, that they don't want to work in this system anymore, and that we're ringing the bell. And even if the last day of this term is possible after the elections, when the new composition of the National Assembly is not yet drawn up, it is necessary to advocate for people who need doctors for the Slovenian health system. The system is such that the transition left has been run over the past decades, so it is insufferable and no longer sustainable. We need new serious systemic solutions and new serious reforms. This is not just what doctors are talking about today, the ones who are most missing, so those who are at the height of their activities, their expertise, as said today by colleague Jelka, so from 40 to 60 years old, then doctors, we can say, are excellent. This is their best rate, where they are still relatively young, but they have experience, knowledge and everything else. But the problem is also young doctors, so we do not have those who would now be willing to absorb the knowledge of some top heart cardio surgeons who specialize in child cardio surgery who would come back to study at our center in Ljubljana. Since 2007, when this system was created, so to this day, we have demonstrated at least after 2012, 2013 that there is a stage where this system is fully stagnant and that something needs to be done. So, it was a trial. And today, look, it's not the beginning of a government mandate that's been here for three months. We have four years of warnings. I've been warning you for four years that it's a process of decaying this heart surgery. That's what we've been alerting you to. We are not today, and that is why we do not want a political story again. This is about life or death. Here are the fates of many people, respected colleagues and colleagues, and here, here is the urgency and priority that I have begun today, this address you most need. Start with yourself if you want to change the world, change yourself. Ask yourself whether the priority was all the laws you have, or the instigation you have adopted in this mandate, or whether it is Slovenia, we can say that some society where there is a healthy farmer's mind, some healthy thinking and is the health of an individual, especially a child, is one of the greatest priorities of this society. I think of my colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but I think of colleagues in New Slovenia as well as an unrelated Member, for that, for all of us, human health, especially children, is priority number 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Vice President. The health problem isn't premeditated or premeditated since yesterday. I remember myself 20 years ago, when we were a local community, not even a municipality where a medical ambulance was shut down years ago, there was only a table left on the buildingWe were trying to get the family doctor back at the time and we were talking, waiting for a health network at the primary level to determine where health clinics will be in Slovenia. I think this story is 30 years old and we don't have it yet. Then, with the congregation, we obtained a medical infirmary. As mayor, I've already decided to look for a good doctor or a doctor, because they usually put a resident there, and it was missing about a week or two a month, usually from the republics of the former Yugoslavia. And we managed to get a doctor, homework, experience, concession, and we citizens are very happy with her all the time. Later we also got a dentist, awarded a concession and we are satisfied with it, although it has too much work, it would take at least half or one next. Later, we obtained an outpatient or pharmacy because we did not have one before. I'm talking about the primary level. Now I am listening to statistics to need thousands of 600 family doctors in Slovenia, but we have 900, and that these doctors are no longer free or have quotas, they no longer receive new patients. Here I think the problem begins, in the primary level, but the primary level is the responsibility of the municipalities, not the state. And now we have some rules or regulations where these family doctors are supposed to punish them if they send a certain patient unjustifiablely to some examination, a specialist examination and so on. Isn't this about intimidation? They're even supposed to be answering materially. Who will judge whether it is justified or not? So the problem is long, burning. Sixty thousand patients are supposed to be in waiting lines. Does anyone wonder how many out of 60 will die before it turns out? Here in the National Assembly on the Committee, in one of the committees it was said that in UKC Maribor there were 30 patients for a certain intervention in line and when they came to the turn, there were 5 already dead. No one's trained with an eye. Isn't that a shame for this country? In how many patients the disease, as a colleague has said before, is so advanced that treatment is later possible 5 times more expensive than it would have been in the initial stage of the disease. That's outrageous. Yesterday in the media, we're tracking the success of Croatian doctors right in the baby that was born, I don't know, a few months too early, and in such cases, mortality is more than 90%, and they saved this life, even with repeated baby surgery, that's a miracle, they were talking, and that's our media. However, we have come to see that this program will be abolished, and neighbouring Croats are boasting about how successful they are. And now the Czechs are going to operate on us. Remember the times, right after the independence, when we laughed as the Czechs passed us by to the sea, with what kind of cars, how much they were behind us. Now imagine, and now we will pay dear Czech doctors to go to Slovenia to operate. What's their salary with them? As they are kept at home in the Czech Republic, they will probably come to operate on us for no free, non-solid, all of this will have to be paid and how much. How we fail to keep our experts, which we have, top-notch, who also perform almost miracles in hospitals where more than 85% of the equipment is supposed to be written off. What kind of conditions do they work under? It's a real shame for this country. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present once again. I think we've exhausted the subject quite a bit by now. In my own view, I have presented the key arguments why this urgent meeting was convened. I'm not going to go into some details that are linked to medical personnel and everything else, but I would like to point out that this government and this ministry have been practically denying us in some way since the beginning. Whenever we raise a problem, it is said that these are from the beginning of a pre-election story that we are trying to present. Likewise, in the majority of the coalition today understood this meeting. However, if you look at all the meetings of the parent working body, all the responses of the ministry or the competent services that were present to these committees where we had warned about individual problems within the healthcare system, the answers were mostly in the direction that all matters were regulated to be settled within half a year, a few months, etc. If we look at this, we find that we are now at the end of our term, and that all things are significantly worse than when you took over both the government and the department ministry. In the meantime, a lot of money has been added to the fact that some things are being saved, but in fact some bills have been paid back and the system has been worse from day to day. And now you're telling us we're making some pre-election campaign out of this. I think my colleague Horvath has said well, the campaign for Members is practically in the entire mandate from the first day he becomes a Member to the end when the new Member assumes his second role. I think we are all working to improve the situation in this country, and the same applies to the health system, and we have never interfered with individual doctors in any particular matter related to the profession. We have repeatedly warned that the system does not allow these people to function normally. And despite ensuring the ministry, the professions of regulating things, at least in this area that we have highlighted today, are deteriorating and have deteriorated so far that we have virtually no wise solution, and this is also pointed out by the Medical Chamber and its President, and it is likely that there will be a number of others in the following area, because in a month we will probably find that when these temporary contracts or this two-month period to be completed, we will probably be looking again for some ad hoc solutions to solve the matter. And it is unacceptable that within a single system where we have a doctor who should drive some new professional power that can replace it, this matter has not happened and for four years you had scissors and canvas in your hands and should ensure that. It is also important in another industry that a certain production manager introduces someone who can replace it, and this is all the more important in health care because it is a transfer of some specific knowledge and this has practically not been done in four years. And now to talk about how we're going to replace this with some imported personnel, with some solutions that won't help, I think it's utopia rather than a fact. It is likely that as soon as the new government takes office, and also as a new minister or minister, it will have to face this problem and not keep their eyes closed, that things can be arranged on their own, that what this minister has obviously done, who has practically told us at every interpretation, that we do not know what we are talking about, that everything we are saying is over the facts and that things are going perfectly or almost perfectly well, and we will already see in a year or two. But these years have passed and we've only gone from worse to worse. Now, if the coalition closes its eyes before this and says that it's not true, it's going to have to lay down the accounts and probably this account will be put out very quickly, and at the latest on June 3rd, when we go to the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the word is also given to the representative of the Government and to the representative of the proposer. Dr. Ana Medved, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go. Don't you? Thank you very much. Then go ahead, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u80	Yes, today's debate has shown exactly what we've been saying for four years. The coalition, the ministry, the government is closing their eyes to real problems, and a large majority of today's session would probably be if one of the coalition MPs said that doctors, cardiac cardiologists, had stepped down for the opposition to have something to say in the National Assembly. In fact, we have heard this once before that general doctors send so many travel guides to secondary schools so that we have something to say in the National Assembly. That would be the big one. That's what I've been waiting for. I am very sorry that patients, those waiting in line, young patients, parents, relatives, and so on, because the coalition does not acknowledge that this minister, this ministry, this government of health, has brought the government to its knees. Literally on your knees and today this has escalated the most in childhood cardiac surgery, say what you want, but you are guilty of it at the Ministry, especially as said by your colleague Dana, who for four years said that the system is fine, that there is no better system far around, that only new money is needed, that these doctors who have warned about things should be punished, at least it seems so. You say they're greedy of money, they want more. You're not going to give Slovenian doctors, but you're going to pay people more or what? That's it. Will they come for the same money as the Slovenian doctors? I think Slovenian child surgeons, cardiologists should be the most paid doctors in Slovenia. I think they might even be underpaid. Such responsibilities as these doctors bear, I don't think anyone wears them. And today to talk about being greedy of money and lynching it in the National Assembly, I have already said, as well as my colleagues, it is inappropriate for Members. We're lynching or not lynching, but we wanted to get the minister out of this town so that the city could be empty and there would be less damage than if the minister were sitting where she is sitting. We're supposed to hear about this today. I wonder which doctor from abroad will come to work for the same money as our doctors? How much will you pay them? We didn't get an answer. Who's gonna work at the National Institute? We didn't get an answer. Will Mr. Gregoric have free hands? We didn't get an answer. It's only a 60-day notice and these doctors have to do what they have to do by law. There's no need, there's no need. They're breaking the Act and they're leaving. [[Incomprehensible]] You can, comet, and you'll prosecute them. But it is not the doctors' fault that the heart surgery in Slovenia has failed. It's the Ministry's fault, it's the government's fault, the current ones, and the previous ones, who have been warned about these things, are not. But 2015 was an international report, which recorded this loud, clear and loudly, and the Minister did not respond to this report. The same words: “No problem, everything works normally, it’s exaggeration, and so on.” Today we're not exaggerating anymore. Not one, not the other. I'm worried that I'll be over, now for less than 60 days, saying, "I told you so." But then you will no longer be there, there will be no minister, there will be no government and no one will be responsible for you again as it is in the Slovenian health system, no one has ever been responsible for anything or for the mistakes of doctors, not for the mistakes of the system, not for thefts, not for corruption, not for anything. And even in this case, when children's heart surgery is in a month and a half, you will no longer answer in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-64.ana.u81	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We've got some time left. Does anyone else want to discuss it? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Then I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9.12.2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure has been completed through the examination of the proposal. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and also the 64th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for a lovely afternoon.
