ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 37th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Ljudmila Novak from 6 p.m. to 6 p.m., Simona Kustec Lipicer, Janja Sluga until 3 p.m., Andreja Potočnik until 12 p.m., Vesna Vervega until 5 p.m., Bojana Muršič between 12 p.m. and 16 p.m., Andrej Šircelj, Peter Vilfan, Primož Hainz from 12 till 16 p.m., Roberto Battelli, Alexander Kavčič, Bojan Krajnc, Marjan Dolinšek until 17 p.m., Branislav Rajić until 17 p.m., Zvonko Lah, Franz Jurša until 18 p.m.m. and Miha Kordiš. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law supplementing the Act on Access to Information of Public Significance by an Endorsed Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 47 Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Anita Koles. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to Mrs Anita Kolesh's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, hello! The right of access to public information is a fundamental human right guaranteed in Article 39(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia. Justice is a key tool for the public sector's open, transparent and responsible functioning, and it has been legalised by the adoption of the Public Information Access Act since 2003. The law on the right of the public to know follows the guidance of international acts and acts of the European Union in this field and ensures the public and open functioning of public sector bodies and the exercise of the right of natural and legal persons to obtain information of a public nature. The law regulates a procedure where it allows everyone to freely access and re-use information of a public nature held by public authorities, local authorities, public agencies, public funds and other public bodies, public authorities and public service providers. We have joined coalition parties in a government cooperation agreement and committed ourselves to the transparent functioning of the State and its authorities. Therefore, Members of SMC, Desus and SD's parliamentary groups have submitted to the legislative procedure a new Law on Access to Public Information, which is a direct response to the initiative of the Association of Journalists of Slovenia, the Union of Journalists of Slovenia, the Association of Journalists and Publishers and Transparency International, which pointed out last year the abuse of the right of foreign participation in public information procedures. The above-mentioned initiators have warned us that some state authorities wish to discourage applicants from applying for access to information of a public nature by means of certain procedures. In addition, we have been faced with a case-law that in such proceedings the rights of individuals to information about the processing of their data must also be protected and invited as party participants to the proceedings. In doing so, the Administrative Court referred to European legislation and related to the use of the institute of foreign participation in the proceedings. With regard to special arrangements, it should be noted that the procedure for access to information of a public nature is already derogating from the general administrative procedure and some of its postulates are subsidiary. This has been done by the Administrative Court to create a real Gordiya knot between the protection of personal data, information of a public nature and procedural rules in an administrative procedure which, in our view, cannot be cut apart from the amendment of the law. So what does this novel mean? The proposal for a novelty provides that, in the proceedings, a request for access to information of a public nature or to the re-use of a party to a procedure shall be made by the applicant only if the decision is made to access data for which the law provides that they are absolutely public. It also provides that in such cases each party shall bear its own costs of the procedure. Following the interpretation of the courts, a party may hire a lawyer for the proceedings, which the applicant, for example a journalist, must end up paying. The new law is supported by all key stakeholders, i.e. housing associations of journalists, non-governmental organisations, the Government or the competent ministry and the public information authority. The latter agrees that this issue is dealt with in a special way, and assesses that it is not appropriate to involve foreign participants in procedures where the information under the law is absolutely public and that non-critical follow-up to procedural rules may result in high costs and extension of proceedings. The National Council also gave support to the novel. While the legislative and legal service has expressed its concerns about limiting the provision of fundamental procedural rights to the law on administrative procedure or ensuring the protection of legal benefits in the process, we are convinced that the novelty cannot in any way affect the involvement of public servants and officials in the management of public affairs, because in these cases public interest, which is not incompatible with the Constitution, is the right to know human rights and the fundamental principle of modern democratic regulation. Nevertheless, we have proposed a supplement on the home working body, which will allow for a uniform administrative and judicial practice aimed at deciding, where there is no doubt about the absoluteness of public data, to be disclosed without the participation of third parties. If I withdraw, this amendment of the law is necessary to maintain the high standards that Slovenia has enforced in the international space. These are: that access to information is absolutely public in nature, fast and that there is no disproportionate financial burden on both applicants and countries. In this way, the law allows for the unhindered control of the media over the functioning of the authorities and civil society participation in the management of public affairs. On the basis of the above arguments, on behalf of the applicants, I ask you to support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u3	The proposal for a law addressed the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 44th meeting, on 11 November. 1. 2018 as a working body, the draft law supplementing the Law on Access to Public Information submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Anita Kolesh. No amendments were tabled within the time limit and the Members received a proposal for an amendment to the SMC, Desus and SD committees. The representative of the proposer said that the aim of the bill was to prevent the abuse of the institution of foreign participation in the administrative procedure. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration said the Government supports the bill. In its written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the fact that the participation of party participants in the proceedings is a constitutional procedural guarantee and a reflection of the fundamental human right of equal protection of the rights referred to in Article 22 of the Constitution and that a proposed supplement in this respect could be contrary to this constitutional provision, as well as to Article 23 of the Constitution, which provides effective judicial protection. It assessed that the burden on the constitutionally consistent interpretation of the first paragraph, which, according to the PSC's assessment, should not conflict with Article 22 of the Constitution, would be a matter of application of law and thus an appropriate practice. The information officer expressed her support for the proposal for a law, mainly because it enhances legal certainty. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission had overwhelmingly supported and stressed the importance of maintaining high standards of access to public information for national regulation. A representative of the Slovenian Society of Journalists presented the problems that journalists face in practice when they want to obtain information of a public nature and expressed support for the bill. The representative of the Association of Journalists and Publishers expressed support for the bill. The Secretary-General of Transparency International Slovenia expressed support for the bill and proposed an amendment to the committee. Members of the coalition highlighted the importance of the bill's proposal for greater access to public sector data. The Committee then adopted its amendment to Article 1 on the basis of a written proposal by the amendment to the Committee. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendment is adopted is prepared under Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u5	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration mag. Xenia Clampfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! The consistent implementation of the applicable regulatory framework of the Public Information Access Act and other laws establishing the public data, the Personal Data Protection Act, on which the subjective foreign participation is based and highlighted, and, last but not least, the General Administrative Procedure Act should lead to the conclusion that the declared public of data prevails over the individual interest of the individual after the protection of data in the procedures under the Public Information Access Act. Since the data contained in the law are defined as public, participation in the proceedings already cannot change the legal position of the data subject and therefore cannot recognise the legal interest of the data subject. The legal position of an individual whose personal data are disclosed because they are defined as public is legally established and regulated and therefore cannot be changed by an individual as a party in a specific and individual administrative matter under the Public Information Access Act. In case-law, there are quite a few cases in which the question of foreign participation in the proceedings was raised and in which it requested access to data on public remuneration in which the court did not decide to involve foreign participants in the proceedings. However, according to the Joint Annual Report on the Implementation of the Law on Access to Public Information for 2015 and 2016, in particular in 2016 there was some change in the caselaw of the Administrative Court, which the applicant points out. In the 3 decisions of the 2016 Administrative Court, referred to by the applicant, the situation was that the journalist requested personal data directly related to the work of public servants. In all three cases, the Court has decided that this is a material breach of the provisions of the law and has referred the matter back to the Court of First Instance with the instruction that all persons whose personal data, although the latter, are wholly public, should be included in the proceedings are in the documents required. In accordance with that legal amendment, it would not even be necessary, but in the fact that the Information Officer and the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia can uniformly implement the legal standards and that this has led in practice to the exercise of the right to information of a public nature, the amended proposal is supported by the Government, thus contributing to a uniform practice, greater legal certainty and the enforcement of constitutional guarantees upon access to information of a public nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u8	Good morning. Your Honor! In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are convinced that transparency in the functioning of the Authority is a fundamental condition for ensuring its responsible action to achieve the public interest, as well as for preventing, detecting and exercising responsibility for abuses related to its functioning, so we advocate increased cooperation, transparency and accountability of the institutions of the public sector in general. Journalists and NGOs reminded us of the problem at the end of last year regarding the institution of foreign participation in public information access procedures. The authorities and business entities, under the dominant influence of public law persons, impose on the debtors the payment of the costs incurred in the proceedings by foreign participants, that is, public servants or officials. The participation of third parties, where the decision may affect their rights, is clearly necessary and the restriction of the right to participate in the proceedings could be disputed, but the participation of the party participants and the charging of the costs of those applicants on the other hand, despite the fact that they cannot influence the outcome of the procedure, constitutes an unreasonable provision of bare procedural rights and a disproportionate burden on them. This may be misused in practice to discourage applicants, unless they apply for access or re-use of information of a public nature. According to some lawyers, the excessive protection of public officials and officials is at the expense of public interest. As already mentioned by the novelist, Mrs Anita Koles, SMC, the case law on the issue of foreign participants, which has in recent cases been set up by the court, has greatly extended and undermined the proceedings and has made the work of research journalists and civil society organisations more difficult. Therefore, the basic premise of the amendment of the law that we are adopting today is to prevent the abuse of the basic provisions of the current law. In the SMC Group, we believe that the participation of third parties in procedures where their participation in absolute data is pointless, unnecessarily complicates procedures, prolongs them, and brings disproportionately high costs to applicants and the State. This, however, destroys the objectives and purposes of the law or the fundamental democratic and human rights of access to information of a public nature. Let us note that international acts in this area clearly state that access to information must be easy, fast and free of charge or linked to low costs. Information to which a journalist or other applicant must wait too long loses its value and benefits only to those who wish to hide or deny access to information in one way or another. We expect that the proposed amendment will remove these barriers to accessing information explicitly defined by law as being absolutely public, while at the same time continuing to allow foreign participation in cases of discretion as to whether it is an exception to absolute freedom of access, or whether the public interest of disclosure is stronger than its interest. Since we believe that the proposed amendment adequately addresses problems in ensuring the right to access information of a public nature and strengthens the high standard of law enforcement, we will support the amendment of the law in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u9	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that transparency or transparency in the functioning of the public sector and the availability of this information should certainly be guaranteed to journalists, but we stress that this must be ensured in a way that will not interfere with the rights of others. We also believe that proportionality should be taken into account when it comes to the rights of other persons who could act as party participants. I certainly stress here that we will not oppose the proposal of the law. We note, however, the concerns which are of a constitutional nature and which has also been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service in its opinion. Participation of foreign participants in the process is a constitutional procedural guarantee, a reflection of fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms of equal protection of rights guaranteed in Article 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides for effective judicial protection, which would be questionable with the proposed amendment of the law. Here I should like to point out that we understand the proposals made by journalists' associations, but once again we point out that the law must be so defined that it does not interfere with the Constitution of human rights guaranteed. The amendment adopted by the Committee on Home Affairs, in our view, has not fully addressed the concerns or comments relating to the constitutional nature. This has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, and it should be considered whether this law or the concept of law is actually adopted. There is certainly a need to ensure high standards in the area of access to public information. This is again and again in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we will always defend it. We will therefore closely monitor the implementation of the new law in terms of the realization of the constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms already mentioned, i.e. equal protection of rights and effective judicial protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u11	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u12	Dear President, representative of the Ministry of Public Administration, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! With the proposal to supplement the Law on Access to Public Information, of which we are also Members and Members of the Desus Group, we want to cut the knots that emerged between the protection of personal data, information of a public nature and procedural rules of administrative procedure. This practice has destroyed the standards of access to information of a public nature and also the very purpose of the umbrella law, making the work of journalists largely impossible. As of September last year, journalists have pointed to the problem presented in practice by the Institute for Foreign Participation in Public Information Access Procedures. There have been situations in which journalists who requested public information received invoices to pay the costs of lawyers representing the persons concerned. It is undeniable that access to information by international standards must be easy, fast and free of charge or linked to low costs, but unfortunately, as has already been said, in practice, they face major difficulties, as it takes several years to obtain such data, and therefore they are associated with high costs. That is why we have decided to introduce a new bill on the part of Members and Members at the initiative of journalists' organisations, which eliminates these problems. Thus, the proposal provides that only the applicant shall be the party to the procedure in which the information is requested to be made public, provided that access to the data for which the law provides that they are public is the subject of the decision. In the Desus Group, we are pleased to see that the supplements under consideration have broad support, both by the Information Commissioner, the State Council, the Government, journalists as of course a Member and Members, which has already clearly been demonstrated by the vote on the home working body. The proposal was adopted unanimously. Members and Members of Parliament have therefore recognized the problem of involving foreign participants and charging the costs of their lawyers, which are met by applicants for access to information of a public nature, which they have been alerted to in the Association of Journalists of Slovenia, Transparency International Slovenia, the Association of Journalists and Publishers and the Union of Journalists of Slovenia. Above all, the fact has prevailed that only simple, efficient and cost-effective and quick access to public information contributes significantly to the democratic, transparent functioning of the State and state authorities. We will, of course, support the proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u14	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Information of a public nature constitutes a category which forms the basis for the public functioning of the state institutions and other authorities which have data in their operations. Therefore, public interest prevails as the highest form of citizen participation in the identification of public matters. This is a constitutional category which, with some exceptions, allows the acquisition of such information. This must be freely accessible as well as its re-use. The weighting of the public interest and the interest of the body with individual information is always a thin segregated, and therefore it must not be left to the subjective judgment of those who decide whether information of a public nature or information which is absolutely public and which, as such, is determined by the law itself. It is therefore a matter of assessing proportionality as to whether the public interest is aware of certain data which, while public, is greater than the right of others to act as party participants in the proceedings and thereby protect their legal benefits. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that the proposal for today's amendment is questionable in terms of the legal security of foreign participants. It is an issue of interference with fundamental human rights protected by the Constitution. If we put ourselves in the role of a party who is guaranteed the right to equal protection of rights by the Constitution, then the law cannot take that right away from him. This right may also not, in the event of doubt, be decided by the authority governing the proceedings under this law. There's something really wrong in our country. The government convinces us how Slovenia has high standards in the field of access to public information – is this true? Christian Democrats also advocate access to information relating to banking data, on which applicants often do not receive sufficient information, even though these relate to a wider public interest, and although the latest amendment to the Banking Act allows the Commission of Inquiry to identify abuses in the Slovenian banking system to obtain bank documents, this does not happen. In particular, our largest bank, owned by the state, is in violation of the law. He does not want to hand over bank documents, even though it is a matter of great public interest, the interest of all the citizens who had to and had to fix another bank hole. Here we see that there is a huge gap between the apparent equality before the law, between the right of the public to public information of a public nature on the one hand and the right of others to whom these public data relate. Or, in other words, it happens too often that, despite the wider public interest, citizens or even the commission of inquiry do not receive sufficient and correct information. Even though that right is given to them by law. Unfortunately, the situation is reversed here. Due to the excessive interest of individuals in maintaining the status quo, we are without proper information. The issues remain unconscionable and unpunished, and this is certainly not in the interest of those Slovenian citizens who want the fair functioning of all state authorities and institutions. In Novi Slovenija, we will not oppose the proposal to supplement the Law on Access to Public Information.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me just say in the introduction that, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I signed the proposed amendment to the Law on Access to Public Information. We will also unanimously support the proposal before the Group of Social Democrats. We do not hide our co-signatory that by introducing the amendment of the bill we have practically responded to the initiative of the Association of Journalists of Slovenia, the Union of Journalists of Slovenia, the Association of Journalists and Publishers and Transparency International in order to prevent the abuse of the institution of foreign participation in the legal process through which the right to access information of a public nature is hampered. Let me reiterate that this is information which is publicly available under the law. The proposal was also supported by the Information Commissioners and the State Council. In this part of the presentation of the Group's position, allow me to highlight another fact. In a period of rapid development, in fact, we can say that it is the daily progress of information technology and the introduction of it into all spheres of our lives, and more and more questions also concern the protection of personal data. We will certainly need to pay increased attention to this issue in the near future. The protection of personal data and access to information of a public nature go hand in hand somehow. On the one hand, we protect the data, and on the other hand, the information or data that contributes to transparency and accountability in the management of public funds by those business entities is under the dominant influence of public law persons. However, the fundamental purpose of the right to access information of a public nature allows citizens and citizens to monitor how these public funds are used. We are aware that the proposed solution does not solve all the problems that journalists face in their work, but we hope that this proposal, which we have today at the table, will be adopted and that it will bring the expected solutions in its implementation, such as simplifying procedures and, crucially, reducing costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u17	The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u18	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal to amend the Law on Access to Public Information came from civil society. This time, journalists were alerted to the problems they face in obtaining information of a public nature. This is not a first warning, but obviously only a pre-election period during which the coalition is willing to listen to such calls. We also responded to the call in Levica, but unfortunately our proposal was not supported by the coalition, just as our other proposals on transparency and democratic functioning of the state authorities were not supported. It is not to be forgotten that it is this government that has taken care, among the first measures, to abolish the magnetograms and audio recordings of the meetings of the Government. This was due to calls from the public and journalists after disclosure of the background for some contested decisions by the Government in the past. The fact that the government and the coalition are not transparent acts also appears in many other cases. After more than two years, for example, under the code of secrecy, all information on the purchase and installation of cutting wires at the border remains hidden. Under the symbol of secrecy, the agreement with Hungary concerning the construction of the second track is also hidden. In particular, information on what Hungary has offered in return in the first place. In secret, the government is preparing a new Law on Owl, which has been halfway secret. In particular, it is not to be forgotten that the government and this coalition have recently wanted to define information of a public nature as marketable goods. But today this record turned around. The proposal supported the proposal of journalists, which some state authorities and companies wish to dissuade from disclosure requirements in such a way as to charge them with all possible costs of the procedure, including charging the costs of lawyers of the parties involved in the proceedings. All of this, of course, also benefits them to extend these procedures. We are well aware of such practices in Levica. Often, either the government or any competent ministry uses them even when we request information from them. This is precisely why we have mixed feelings about the coalition's proposal. We certainly agree that such practices must be prevented and stopped, and we have problems with how this problem is being resolved. The legislative and legal service has given a comprehensive written opinion and this opinion clearly shows that the proposed solution is most likely to be unconstitutional. We are therefore in a situation where the government or coalition, which in no way wishes to disclose important information to the public, will adopt a solution that will otherwise facilitate access to such information, but almost certainly in an unconstitutional way. So it's entirely a question of whether or not it's done on purpose. Does the current state of affairs actually suit the government and the coalition, because it also wants to continue to hide its own information about its controversial business, and therefore there is a solution on the table that will not, in practice, come to life because it will be repealed by the Constitutional Court? These are questions that are open and also have serious consequences for how this law will work. Given that we have drawn up a compromise proposal in Levica that would bring exactly the same final result, the same solutions, but in a constitutional way, we believe that the answer to all the questions raised earlier is yes. That's why we can't support this marriage in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on products of precious metals, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! Allow me to present to you the goals and solutions of the new New Law on Precious Metal Products, which you will decide today. We estimate that the situation in the field of precious metal products is stable. The Noble Metal Products Act ensures that the country controls the appropriate quality of products made of precious metals in transport. The consumer thus has the assurance that he is buying gold or silver products from a registered supplier and that these products have been properly tested at the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology operating within our Ministry. Nevertheless, minor adjustments to the law are needed, particularly in the work relating to the level of fines and their pronunciation in the rapid procedure. This is also the main purpose of the new law. The amount of fines prescribed has not changed for most of the offences since 2000, and all fines in the Noble Metal Products Act have been fixed in Slovenian Tolars and are therefore converted into euro. At the same time, inspectors can only impose sentences at the lower limit, i.e. in the lowest, sometimes ridiculous amounts. Given the collection of data on suppliers of precious metal products, it is also necessary to harmonise the provisions of the law with the provisions of personal data protection legislation. In practice, it has also been shown that deregulation is necessary for foreign coins which are a means of payment abroad or which are issued for collection purposes. We have found that there is a certain duplication of such control procedures already carried out abroad. Your Honor, allow me to conclude this brief presentation. I am convinced that the amendment of the law brings good and well-founded solutions that will contribute to a better and more transparent business environment, a higher level of consumer confidence in the operation of the system of control over precious metal products in transport and the prevention of unfair competition. I therefore suggest that you accept the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u21	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mark Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and everyone else in the National Assembly! The Committee on the Economy is at its 31st session. 1. 2018 addressed the above-mentioned proposal for a law. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the definition of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The amendments to the bill were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD. At the meeting, members and members of the Committee were represented by an amendment by the SMC, Desus and SD members to the 6th Article on which the Committee voted and adopted it. The amendments adopted are reflected in the report of the Committee. In its supplementary explanation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that some of the comments of the service were taken into account by amendments to the coalition groups and additional clarifications were provided by the Ministry in respect of the other comments. With regard to the amendment to Article 6, she warned that it should be amended and the Service therefore agreed with the Committee's proposal for an amendment to Article 6. A comment was also made on the placement of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology. A representative of the State Council also participated in the meeting, explaining that the Commission of the State Council for Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supported the proposed law. Members and members of the Committee discussed the solutions to the proposed law and, as stated on the Committee by Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment of the Committee to Article 6 was adopted. The Committee also considered and adopted amendments from SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 2, 3 and 4, to the title of the Final Decision and to the new Article 11a. The amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 6 has become irrelevant. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended amended law, which includes and adopts amendments, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of the report of that committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We therefore have before us the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Noble Metal Products Act. Let me say that, with the Noble Metal Products Act, which entered into force in the years of 2000, we have deviated from the relative, severe State control over precious metal products. At that time, the new law allowed suppliers of precious metal products to independently ensure compliance of their products with the regulations by maintaining the technical documentation required. I would also like to point out that the field of products made of precious metals within the European Union is in fact not harmonised. Most Member States of the European Union have a so-called system of compulsory testing and certification of conformity of products of precious metals. These countries include Slovenia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Croatia, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. However, in the Member States of the European Union, such as Austria, Italy, Germany, ensuring the appropriate quality of products made of precious metals is not prescribed, but in practice it is mainly carried out by testing products on the basis of chemical analyses. What brings us, and what are the goals of the proposed law? The first objective, which can be said to be self-evident, is to align the amount of fines with inflation. So far we even have prices in tolars. Let me say that the proposed increase in the amounts of fines that have remained unchanged since 2000 is 58.5%, as reported by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia as inflation itself. Therefore, in recent years, we have even received some manna in the state budget due to the uncollected fines resulting from the lack of alignment with inflation. The second objective of the law is to allow for the imposition of fines within the range of the rapid procedure, which we consider to be an intermediate party in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Then to fully function the illicit placing on the market of products from precious metals, to arrange for the protection of personal data in the record of the supplier of products from precious metals, in particular, which we consider to be important in the Slovenian Democratic Republic and which is also the aim of our complete policy, deregulation of the control of foreign coins from precious metals. In the latter case, which is also self-evident, it is a matter of supplementing the basic law with a provision on mutual recognition, including a reference to Directive 2015/1535 of the European Union from the notification of non-harmonised rules. Let me conclude, dear colleagues and colleagues, precisely because of what I have listed, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u25	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! The bill amends some of the provisions by which Slovenian legislation will follow European rules on products made of precious metals in common transport. In particular, the law provides adequate control over the quality of products made of precious metals. In addition, there are some less demanding adjustments or, rather, upgrades to existing arrangements. Thus, penalties will adapt to the currency in force and will be slightly higher after the new, greater control over suppliers of such products and their records will be adapted to data protection legislation. It also eliminates unnecessary duplication of individual verification activities, resulting in deregulation of the control of foreign coins from precious metals. We see the changes as necessary, as meaningful, and will therefore support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u27	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u28	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! The Noble Metal Products Act, which is before us today, brings 2 key changes. One is a different and stricter punishment especially for suppliers of precious metals who continue to place their products on the market, even though they have already been banned. And secondly, the deregulation of the control of foreign coins which have been officially recognised as a means of payment or issued for collection purposes. In addition, noble metals in the form of bars or slabs of coins with the status of the standard of good delivery of the London Association for the determination of the quality of gold and silver should be added. The assessment of the New Slovenia Group is that honest people must be protected from fraud, fraud, who cheat with noble metals, must be punished. In order for these procedures to take place quickly, we also support the implementation of the speedy criminal procedure provided for in this law. At the same time, in the New Slovenia Group, we also advocate the principle that the country should not interfere in an area where this is not necessary by regulation. Certainly there is no need for Slovenia to regulate coins already recognised by another country. Nor does it make sense for us not to trust the standard of the London association, which determines the quality of gold and silver. Because of these two fundamental things, this is deregulation of control and stricter punishment of fraud – with these two proposals, the New Slovenia Group agrees and will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u29	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u30	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! The law before us lays down the technical requirements to be met by products made of precious metals in transport, the procedures for determining and certifying conformity of products, the labelling of products, the traffic of products and the control of products. The provisions of this law also apply to raw materials and semi-manufactured products of precious metals, such as granules, sticks, tiles, leaves, wires, strips and the like. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology is a national institution that operates in accordance with the provisions of the law before us and is responsible for the systematic regulation of the area of precious metals. It shall also carry out controls to a certain extent on the testing and labelling of products of precious metals. Manufacturers and importers shall have the opportunity to declare conformity of the products themselves when fulfilling the conditions laid down, under the supervision of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology. The main purpose of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Noble Metal Products Act is to harmonise fines for offences with inflation. The fact is that the fines have remained unchanged since 2000 and 2005 and are expressed in Slovenian tolars. The now in force noble metal product law allows inspectors only to fine at the lower limit, i.e. in the lowest prescribed amounts, so it is proposed to supplement the law by which inspectors can pass fines within a range of speedy procedures. This provision will, in particular, allow for more stringent penalties for suppliers who, despite the fines already imposed, are in breach of the provisions of the law. It is also proposed that the compulsory testing and certification of conformity for foreign coins of precious metals which are either a means of payment abroad or have been issued for collection purposes. The practice has shown that there is a certain duplication of tests that have already been conducted abroad. Furthermore, a comparative analysis of the legislation of other countries in the field of precious metal products showed that they do not know coins elsewhere in a similar mandatory test. It is also proposed to supplement the now in force Law on precious metal products in the field of personal data protection. This is a provision which prescribes keeping records of suppliers of products made of precious metals. It is proposed to supplement the clause after mutual recognition. This means that the provisions of this Act will not apply to products which are legally produced or marketed in other Member States of the European Union and in Turkey or produced in countries of the European Free Trade Association, EFTA States which are also parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. Since the law is less difficult to amend and supplement the law, it is adopted in a reduced procedure. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Products of Tribal Metals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u31	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes the third item of the agenda. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on the registration of immovable property after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u32	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed the adoption of a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Registration Act, which aims to regulate the recording and modification of data on land, buildings and parts of buildings in the Land Catastrophe, the Catastrophe and the Real Estate Register, which has been detected as weak or inadequate, in particular in terms of the implementation of the Real Estate Mass Valuation Scheme. The main proposed changes and additions can be summarized into the following points. The land cadastre is built up by rules for managing and coordinating actual land use data and by geodetic service the local improvement of land cadastre data. The structure of the cadastral buildings shall be upgraded by the procedure of action in cases where the building has been entered or has not been recorded to change the data of the buildings already entered, by laying down the rules for the recording of data on the owners of the buildings and by limiting the division of residential buildings built after 1 January 2003. The regulation of the real estate register shall be supplemented in particular by the precise determination of the data and the correct basis for the management of such data in the real estate register and by the rules for the collection of data and the recording of data maintained in the real estate register. Furthermore, amendments and additions are aimed at ensuring a system of information for real estate owners, and criminal provisions will provide more effective control over the implementation of the law by establishing the broader powers of the geodetic inspector. The arrangements so far have been upgraded by additional measures and activities to ensure that data in the land cadastral, cadastral buildings and real estate register in 2018, 2019 will be improved by providing more suitable basis for a better mass valuation of real estate. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the proposal to be an important step towards a comprehensive revision of the real estate registration legislation, which will be represented by the new Real Estate Catastrophe Act. This will be adapted in accordance with the planned dynamics of the eSpace project. The bill does not mean, of course, the end of the search for possible solutions for better and more efficient recording of properties in the Republic of Slovenia. Members and Members of Parliament, I hope that you will support the proposed solutions and thus allow the amended and updated regulation of the recording of real estate to achieve its purpose and deliver its results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u33	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 36th session. 1. 2018 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Registration Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure. The Slovenian Democratic Party's emissary group is 9. 1. 2018, which is the day before the Committee’s hearing, addressed to the Committee a proposal for a public presentation of opinions on a proposal for a law and the Committee decided first on this proposal before the beginning of the second hearing. The proposal did not receive majority support in the vote, so the Committee continued its second reading of the bill. In addition, in the opinion of the applicant, Mrs Irena Majcen highlighted among the proposed amendments the arrangement of the Earth's cadastra, which builds on the rules for managing and coordinating data on the actual use of land and the locational improvement of the Earth's cadastral data as a new geodetic service. Changes are also envisaged in the area of the structure of the cadastral buildings, which is upgraded by the procedure of action in the cases of unregistered buildings and unrecorded changes in the data of the buildings entered, by the rules of entry of the data on the owners of the buildings into the cadastral buildings, which comply with the rules of entry of the owners of buildings and parts of buildings into the land register, and by establishing the method of recording the data of the owner of the building in the cadastrament of buildings, provided that the building does not have the same property or no building right. The distribution of buildings built after 1 January 2003 to several parts of the building is limited and the recording of the building with several parts of the building is allowed only if a building permit is issued for a multi-housing building. The regulation of the real estate register, which is being upgraded, was also highlighted. The rules for the collection of data are therefore laid down and the rules for the registration of data maintained in the real estate register are laid down. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that they had prepared a written opinion on the draft law, made some comments which had been taken into account by the applicant in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and provided additional written explanations regarding the opinion to Article 2. It also pointed out that a comment remains on Article 5 of the draft law, in relation to the content of the proposed fourth paragraph of Article 61a, which, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, defines in a broad sense the active legitimacy of persons who may require a local improvement. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which supports the law and has no comments on it. With regard to the content of the draft law, the debate of Members focused to a large extent on Article 5, which introduces a new Article 61a, which provides for the introduction of the improvement of the location of the Earth's cadastral data as a new and independent geodetic service. The legislative and legal service's concerns regarding the content of the proposed fourth paragraph were raised and, consequently, the amendment of the Committee was adopted, whereby the implementation of the registration of the locally improved data is limited to the execution of the proposed fourth paragraph and to all persons of legal interest. With regard to the content of the provisions and with the explanation of the proposal, in particular Article 5, some Members were not satisfied, suggested that the debate and decision on the draft law should be postponed, which was not voted on. After discussion, the Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, pursuant to Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and its amendment to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 5. He also voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u35	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister with a colleague, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Before us is the amendment to the Real Estate Registration Act, which is intended to regulate the recording and modification of land cadastre, cadastre of buildings and register of real estate. The current regime has proved to be flawed, especially in terms of the mass valuation of real estate. By adopting this novel, data are expected to improve in 2018 and 2019 so much that it will provide a more appropriate basis for better quality mass evaluation, when, or if any of the future governments will even be able to bite into this sour apple. The most debates on the new geodetic service took place on the mother’s working body itself. This is a site improvement service, which means that there is a technical change in the data on the boundaries of parcels and plots below the building, which will improve their location accuracy. It is important to point out that there will be no changes in the field, but that the graphic coverage of parcel data will be harmonised according to spatial acts or aerial recordings. Such an improvement may be required by the Geodetic Authority for an official duty or by an individual of legal interest, and the costs will be borne by the one who will also require an improvement. This means, therefore, that if the Geodetic Authority asks for an improvement, it will not be able to charge the land owner costs, as was the case in the debate on the working body. At the meeting of the Committee, we heard that the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia also supports the proposed solutions, because they believe it is time for records to be organised and data to be uniform, since this means that municipalities will be able to better manage space and prepare better spatial plans. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u37	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u38	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! The aim of the bill is to supplement or amend the Real Estate Registration Act in order to provide more quality and complete data in the Land Catastrophe, Catastrophe Buildings and Real Estate Register. All these activities are expected to take place this year and next year. These data will be the basis for the implementation of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, which is designed as a property tax. In the New Slovenia Group, we ask whether we have enough qualified people and geodets in Slovenia to achieve this set goal. In order to assess the real estate tax, we need accurate records in order not to repeat the decisions of the Constitutional Court which could again repeal the law, as we have already done in 2014. A large part of the buildings, especially the family houses built before 2013, are not included in the cadastral buildings because such registration was not required by the State, or by the applicable legislation, on the basis of the geodetic laboratory. Data serving the general market values in the real estate register were reported by the owners on the basis of the questionnaire and could be modified by any means. The proposal for today's novelty will only allow data on actual use and surface area, housing and non-residential, to be changed on the basis of an elaboration of the geodetic undertaking. The estimated cost of producing such an elaboratory is about EUR 300 and is just as much as the lowest penalty for not signing into a cadastral building. In this way, says the government, it wants to encourage entry into the cadastral buildings. Is this really going to start happening and going to happen? In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the Government has undertaken the preparation of all these novels, which are the basis for implementing the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, completely wrong. It is true that all records must be regulated, merged and unified, but we have not yet resolved the key issue of legalisation of black buildings. This is something that the government of Mira Cerar avoids, and the question is, who has an interest here? The new construction and spatial legislation, which was adopted months ago and will become applicable this June, does not fully address this problem. It is fair, however, that we are all equal citizens, and we all have the same duties and rights. In the New Slovenia Group, we see a solution mainly in the law on the legalization of illegal construction following the example of neighbouring Croatia. This could easily solve the problem of legalisation, and the municipalities would receive in their budgets additional funds from municipal contributions and later from the property tax. In Croatia, things have been resolved in a very simple, yet useful way. The Law on Legalization of Unauthorized Construction would, in our belief, ensure that we obtain accurate data in all records. In this way we would also obtain the basis and data for the property tax assessment, which we can only establish with the assumption that we have all the records, i.e. the cadastral buildings, the earth cadaster, the land book. Since the proposal for a novel problem does not solve the problem in its entirety, we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Real Estate Registration Act in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u39	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u40	Nice hello to you all! Thank you for your word, chairman. It's an attitude. The law under consideration would potentially allow better data collection to ensure the mass valuation of real estate. Basically, it is some kind of technical correction that is halfway through which, at the final stage, we're supposed to help with the real estate tax, which we're kind of kicking off. We need a property tax in Slovenia. If we choose more money from taxes on high incomes, capital revenues, from high value assets, people could pay lower VAT and excise duties – by the way, the European Parliament is in the middle of a debate on tax policies. What does that mean? It means that the progressive taxation of property that this law, or another law along with it, could contribute to lower regressive taxes that affect poorer citizens and citizens most. That would be necessary. Why? Today, much of the property is in the form of real estate, and the property difference between the inhabitants is huge and growing. When we talk about social transfers, we usually don't talk about it. Relatively fresh data: last year the richest 10% of Slovenian citizens and citizens owned 34% of the total value of real estate, 20% of the richest owned more than 50% of the total value of real estate in Slovenia, and the poorest tenth of citizens and citizens owned only 3.4 per cent of the total value of real estate. Short for a good 0.3%. What does that tell us? This tells us that the concentration of property ownership, especially those of valuable real estates, is very high. It is therefore necessary to introduce a tax aimed at those 20% of the richest, while not all others will be further burdened or significantly burdened. We also need to think about how we came to these properties, especially in poorer ones, because we do not have an adequate housing policy since the beginning of Slovenia's existence. We didn't expect the Super Hik government to do this now. We're not that naive in Levic. The Law on the Registration of Real Estates, which we are considering today, does not introduce such taxation. It is as I said before, especially for technical amendments to the law, which will allow the collection of real estate data so that the final real estate tax can be more fair. Already in the recent consideration of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, we have said that the current records of property values are extremely weak, and as long as they do, we will always be able to listen to the evidence that someone is abusers of social benefits, even though he has a lot of property. The bill we are considering today will improve the state of these records slightly, so we will not oppose it. However, this law is going in the same way as the recent amendment to the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates for some partial solutions that are going in the right direction, but, of course, before the end of this term, the Government does not hope to accept what I mentioned earlier. It is not clear how this tax should be designed, nor how the coalition sees it. In view of all the other policies of this government and coalition and the fact that we do not even know what the composition of the next coalition and government will be, we cannot, of course, in Levica give some ion exchange to the state apparatus for the introduction of the starting point of something that we do not even know what will happen. The fact is that this law should be part of a larger package, accompanied by at least a serious draft real estate tax law, but it still does not. Therefore, regardless of the technical improvements made by law, we will be abstaining in the vote on this issue in Levica. Since I have some time left, I would also touch on legalisation and changes in construction and space legislation. With what lies in the political spectrum, let us follow Croatian legalisation, yes or no, we must ask ourselves why we had so many black buildings in our possession. Surely we also need a law on architecture. At the time of acceptance of that three, however, we have made it very clear that we need the inclusion of all the professions that we master, but unfortunately the self-esteem of the SMC and the exposure of only the works of architects versus all others. I hope that we will also make this three in the next reference. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u41	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u42	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have a proposal for a real estate registration law ahead of us. Of course, it is a technical law that is needed, but continuing this is a property tax. For this reason, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the law to the extent that we do not oppose these solutions. But it's only right that we put our problems on the line. At the end of the term of office, what has the Government done so far? The impression that the government is working is, of course, a more pianist project. The fact that the procedure is short - lived suggests that there is a great deal of hurry. The government has avoided what is necessary, namely the key work, namely the taxation of property which must be fair, adequate and taxed primarily on what was untransparently acquired during the transition. Some have become enormously rich. How and how will we tax this? What do you need? An overall framework and overall tax policy are needed. But the government didn't do it. So we would need a full approach, not just a partial technical solution. What would such a tax system bring? The redistribution of taxes would bring a burden on the taxation of work, which is, as we can see, still desirable and necessary by the economy, would bring about the regulation of the real estate market, both rent and sale, and, of course, an appropriate housing policy. This cannot be done without appropriate tax policies and appropriate taxation. What's going on? What we keep warning. With this, the government has moved the problem of tax policy, property taxation to the next government, as well as the sale of NLB, as well as health reform and other reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u43	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u44	Good afternoon, distinguished president, distinguished minister, colleague and colleague! The proposed amendments and additions to the Real Estate Registration Act are mainly necessary to ensure more complete, correct and quality real estate measures. The solutions to the law are aimed at achieving the basic purpose of the land cadastre, the cadastra of buildings and the real estate register in order to provide appropriate legislative and legal basis for a higher quality and mass valuation of real estate. The law governs the land cadaster in a way that builds on clearer rules for managing and coordinating actual land use data, regulates the establishment of a common layer of actual land use, and introduces a new geodetic service, the so-called locational improvement of land cadaster data. The structure of the cadastral buildings shall be upgraded by a procedure of action in the case of unregistered buildings and in the case of unrecorded changes in the data of the buildings entered, the division of the building into several parts of the building shall be limited for housing buildings built after 1 January 2003 and the recording of the building with several parts of the building shall be allowed only if a building permit is issued for a multi-entity building. The news is also that the essential data on buildings and parts of buildings can only be changed by an elaborator of a geodetic company or designer, including in particular changes in the surface and actual edges of buildings. The law also clearly provides for a method of recording and modifying data on a person who, as a real estate owner, is kept in the real estate register. In order to ensure the link between the boundaries of parcels and the boundaries of municipalities, the procedure for the initial harmonisation of the data of municipalities' borders with the boundaries of parcels shall be laid down. Systemic notification of the recording of new and amended data by means of an annual notice to the owners of the property is regulated. The law also reformulates criminal provisions with a view to ensuring more effective control over the implementation of the law, and sets out broader and actually clearer options for action by the geodetic inspector in cases where this is necessary. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that changes and additions to the law are necessary and appropriate, as they provide an appropriate legal basis for the mass valuation of real estate. The solutions are aimed at achieving the basic purpose of the Earth cadastre, the cadastra of buildings and the real estate register, and at the same time introduce a number of innovations and improvements with a view to ensuring a quality system for recording and managing data on cadastrals and the real estate register, and we will therefore support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u45	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to everyone else! We have before us a law on the registration of property, which is being re-adopted after a reduced procedure, which is unacceptable for us in the Group of Members. This is a law that affects practically every citizen of this country once again. We have proposed a public presentation of the opinions, and this proposal has not been supported. At the second reading on the Committee, the Minister said, quote: “The arrangements so far are being upgraded by additional measures and activities to ensure that data in the Earth cadastral, cadastrall of buildings and in the Real Estate Register in 2018, 2019 will be improved by providing more suitable basis for a better mass valuation of real estates.” It is said that this law will actually affect every citizen who has real estate and therefore there has been quite a debate on the Committee, in particular on certain articles, which are also controversial and problematic in terms of the legal protection of all concerned. It's a locational improvement. We discussed this a lot on the committee, including the position, the opinion of the drafters was inconsistent or confusing. In view of the fact that it was also the decision not to interrupt the meeting, practically equivalent, seven: seven, all of us present on this committee expected this article to be amended and supplemented, and that consideration and comments made on the Committee would be taken into account. But that didn't happen. We still have an article which, in my opinion, is unconstitutional because it does not protect all parties in a procedure which will take place on the basis of this Article. Many Members say that “this law is technical in one way or another, it does not affect anything” but if we read the opinion of the Ministry, which says that it is a basis for the valuation of real estate, on the other hand, we look at what this location improvement means in practice and who is actually doing it and how things are recorded, the matter is the least controversial and will probably also fall into constitutional judgment. We have suggested on the committee that if this is already a technical improvement and a procedure that is done by some key and by some mathematical formula and does not affect anything, then it is only in case it is an interest under official duty. In the event of the inclusion of an individual who makes a proposal for an improvement, it is inevitable that the person who is tanning in this process must also participate. This can also be seen from the following indents in this Article, which speak of the fact that the locational improvement of the data can also be rejected. It's supposed to have some kind of influence. Otherwise, the Geodetic Authority would not have any discretionary right to refuse a matter. He rejects it because it is to some extent inappropriate. And it is also unacceptable that this seventh indent speaks of the fact that the Geodetic Authority informs the applicant of the locational improved data, it is said that only that person who requires it for his lot, and that the local improved data, which inevitably tantifies all the other parcels around the one for which someone turns out to be some legal legitimacy, are published only online. This puts all other persons who may be involved in this process in, I would say, an inappropriate position not to say otherwise. Therefore, the Committee's attention was also very mid-term. I think that quite a few Members have found that the matter is inconclusive, and it is once again a law that, as I said, touches virtually everyone in this country, is adopted by short-term procedure without any serious discussion, and even when it is pointed out by imperfection, we all go away and say, because it has no effect on anything. If the law doesn't affect anything, we don't need the law. I ask that Members slowly begin to think with your head. This argument that this is just a mathematical correction of something – we do not need law to do this. The Geodetic Authority can do this without law. On behalf of our Group of Members, I say that we will not absolutely support this law, because it is inconclusive, harmful and is likely to have any worse consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u47	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE INTERVENTIVE MEASURES FOR THE EFFECTS OF TIME AFFECTS BETWEEN 11. AND 12. DECEMBROM 2017 The draft law was tabled by a group of nineteen Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of nineteen Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u48	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! They catch what they've been following in Slovenia in recent years. A month ago, more precisely December 11, 12th, the capture affected very large areas of Slovenia. In Gorenjska in particular the area of Predvor and Jezersko and Bohinj, and then Kočevsko, Koroška, Idrija and some other areas. The damage caused is repeated. The damage is in infrastructure, the roads have been affected, the power lines have been downed, and what happened in the forests, where it is estimated to be about a million, after some more cubic metres of fallen trees, is opening up further options for damage, because we already know that in recent years there has been an extremely pressing problem. This type of tree, which is extremely difficult to remove, even very dangerously, is, of course, an ideal breeding ground for the damage to increase further. Therefore, in the SDS, we have drawn up a special proposal for a law, which is partly similar to other solutions, following the law that was at stake. At that time, for example, in Kočevska, the damage was greatly affected, and it was estimated that the damage was now even greater than it was at that time in the area. This law provides for the following solutions. For the first time, a faster solution to the consequences, a faster payment of compensations, the implementation of certain mechanisms which then enable this, tax relief for the affected, including the halving of cadastral income, a faster complete restoration of roads and long-distance pipelines. In addition, the law provides for something else. We all know who always carries the first weight of intervention when natural disasters occur, and these are firefighters. Again and again we hear thanks, even this time it has been so, for firefighters, when concrete steps are needed, there is simply no political will to do so. This time we have incorporated this into this law, the solutions that we have talked about many times, and unfortunately the ruling coalition has never heard of them. I hope that now that these people have shown themselves this way in dealing with the consequences – not only in Slovenia, they will also help Austria, where the damage was even greater – but that it will be heard and that solutions will be adopted, which do not mean much for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but mean a lot to people who expose their health to help others. For voluntary firefighters, this law provides that the State would provide funds for the provision of operational volunteer firefighters, provide funds for preventive health checks of firefighters in order to provide voluntary firefighters with additional health insurance funding and for each day of the public firefighting service additional pension insurance. You all know that, unlike the previous system, now that the system is different, many times firefighters also have problems with employers. For if someone is in a position exposed to a process, it is difficult for the employer to allow himself to be released again and again for a day, two or more weeks or more to perform his duties. As a result, this law provides that the employment of firefighters should be stimulated by reducing insurance premiums for employers and additional tax reliefs. These are models also known by some other countries from the former Austro-Hungarian region, where voluntary firefighting has been established and is a historical and cultural and security acquisition. For this reason, we propose that this should also apply in Slovenia. Some of these things have been left to the congregations so far, I think it is only right for the state to accept responsibility. Once again, it is extremely small sums, from the point of view of the state budget, but the aid they provide is great, it is priceless and these people certainly deserve it. Firefighters and firefighters as such are something that must be worth not only in words but also in actions. Today is an opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u49	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u50	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Initially, I must point out that the removal of the consequences of natural disasters at systemic level is regulated by the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents and that intervention measures are implemented in the event of natural disasters on the basis of rules governing the protection against natural disasters. Thus, the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia initiated procedures to assess the damage caused by the floods and the strong wind between 11 and 13 December 2017. Only the estimated damage can be the basis for the adoption and implementation of the appropriate measures to remedy the consequences arising under the applicable legislation. The bill states that the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents does not allow the proper implementation of all necessary measures for the rehabilitation of facilities and for the recovery of damage to all victims, but does not explain the shortcomings of the system regime and does not explain the need for a specific regime. I must also explain that the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters is not primarily intended to pay compensation, but rather to allocate public funds to the state budget to help implement the reconstruction works. An exception is agricultural production, where it is not possible to restore damaged agricultural crops as caused by drought. The proposed law is of an intervention nature and refers to a specific situation. Contrary to its purpose and objective, it sets out and defines the content intended to address the problem posed by similar future weather events, as well as the content not covered by intervention legislation, such as the resolution of the status of voluntary firefighters, the provision of funds for the provision of operational firefighters, prevention, health checks and the financing of additional health insurance. At the same time, the proposed law also defines the resources of the European Union Solidarity Fund, which the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is not responsible for. On the other hand, the draft law does not specify the extent of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to be provided by this intervention law, both in cash and not in relative terms, for example, in the share of the damage caused. Particular attention should be paid to the area of public procurement, as it introduces derogations from existing legislation in this area, providing for unrealistic deadlines for implementation, in particular in the work relating to the legal protection of tenderers and the audit. In view of the above, the proposal for a law by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot be supported. The Government considers that, as such, it is not suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u51	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u52	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, also Secretary of State, Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Each year, Slovenia is reshuffled by natural disasters, and their strength and frequency are also increasing. The most marked in the past were droughts, floods, storms, stomachs, storms, and earthquakes. The fact is that the consequences of these natural disasters are most felt by farmers on agricultural areas and forests. We agree that most of these natural disasters are also due to climate change, which we can largely attribute to man and his irresponsible treatment of nature. For by using fossil fuels and cutting forests, man has greatly overloaded the landscape and has accidentally caused a large proportion of natural disasters that cannot be prevented despite advanced technology. One of the natural influences that affected us at the end of last year was the strong wind. In Slovenia, for at least a decade, we have also been facing an increase in water currents, a strong wind, which hit us the most between December 11th and 12. The impact of individual places was so great that it crippled virtually the whole of Slovenia. Many households were without electricity for several days, road and rail projects were crippled, and some schools were closed. The roads were untransportable for several days due to the collapse of the trees and the application of the land onto the road. This time the western part of Slovenia took the worst. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that in natural disasters, rapid action and disaster relief are just as important as disaster relief. It is estimated that 101 municipalities have reported damage due to a December catch, accounting for almost half of all Slovene municipalities. The Slovenian Institute of Forests reported that according to their grave estimate, more than 1.3 million cubic metres of trees were damaged. It's the worst wind damage to the forests in 20 years. The cutting of the damaged eel and the harvesting of wood from the forest to the peeling or processing must be completed by mid-May at the latest in order to avoid further damage due to the multiplication of the hatchers in the damaged tree. Are we once again witnessing a danger that will speed up and cause further destruction of our forests, our natural wealth because of the archduke? That is why we are interested in New Slovenia, and we also want to have an answer here, whether we will finally consider abolishing the transporters or further burdening the felling and harvesting of wood from the forests. The budget plans a security reserve of EUR 5 million, which can only be used in the year in which the damage occurred, to deal with natural disasters. However, this damage was done on 11 and 12 December, so that this year and even in later years it will have to be planned in the budget of the higher security reserve. Intervention law intervenes in several areas and consequently in several laws. We cannot agree with all the proposals, but we do believe that rapid action and good organisation is the key to the quickest remedy for the damage caused by this catch. There are too many natural disasters in Slovenia to respond too late. The New Slovenia Group will support the law on intervention measures to remedy the effects of the weather between 11 and 12 December 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u53	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The resolution of the consequences of natural disasters is governed by the law with such a name in general, i.e. at systemic level, if you wish, while the proposed law, at least by declaration, is engaged in an intervention for exceptional catch. This declaration is difficult to follow fully through the proposed law because the latter essentially interferes with issues that should be regulated by the system law or governed by sectoral legislation that does not address this issue. Therefore, it is a fundamental question to consider this law, whether it is wiser to regulate individual solutions where they belong, and not to cause legislative confusion so as not to create a vague legal basis and structure. We can understand the intention of the applicant to regulate the situation of firefighters to allow for future and further better intervention conditions, but this certainly does not fall within the law governing a period which has already passed. The solutions that work ahead cannot be recorded in a law that relates to a precise period already behind us, so we will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u55	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, again. Before I start with a position that would be a little longer than the predecessors' views, I'd say, if I had more music, I'd sing that one than Leonard Cohen Hallelujah. But there's no reason to be happy. Why, follow. Before I speak of the law itself, I cannot go beyond the state in which this law is adopted. Frequency, the intensity of extreme weather events is increasing, which is a direct consequence of climate change, which is caused by the capitalist global system, as we have, especially by the release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, by the exploitation of human beings and natural resources. The system poses an increasingly persistent threat to both humans and many species of animal, plant species that have been, some because of their eternal expansion, already betrayed or threatened by the face of the earth. All of this is well aware of policy, and it is during this time of our mandate that the signing of the Paris Climate Agreement has taken place, with which the signatory countries have committed themselves to maintaining the level of global warming below two degrees Celsius. Ironically, the President of the Government, Miro Cerar, at the time when Slovenia was affected by this December storm, which we are talking about, was at the Paris Climate Summit on the second anniversary of the signing of the Paris Agreement and was talking about it. It is even more ironic and irresponsible because at that time, he himself attributed the intensity of the storm to climate change, while at the same time it is his government and this coalition that has been categorically rejecting the proposals of the Left to increase efforts to reduce greenhouse gases and to adapt to climate change. This government has even gone so far as to defend in Brussels its position on the proposal for a European directive on the implementation of the Paris Agreement, which was contrary to the position put forward by the National Assembly on the proposal of the Left and the two SMC Members to be found. A position which, under the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, should be defended by the Minister of State. The government is not taking the problem seriously, but Slovenia is increasingly under attack due to the consequences of climate change. And one more thing. Last week, the debate and conclusions in the European Parliament were going in the direction of what Levic proposed to target 25% by 2030. 35% of renewable energy sources and 35% of improvements in energy efficiency, where within the EU Slovenia is very lagging. After the spring cold and the summer drought in December, Slovenia was hit by a severe storm. As soon as the storm struck, it was clear that the damage was very extensive and that State aid would be necessary. Three days after the end of the month, when all the competent services were very active in dealing with the effects on the ground, the SDS Group had already prepared an intervention measure law to remedy the effects of the weather catch. A quick review of the law says that it is only a selection of some of the measures proposed by the SDS in the past, only that they are now partly excused by the weather. Vehicles, reduced cadastral income, voluntary firefighters and so on. In short, some of the winter-green SDS, packed up as an intervention law to remedy the effects of the weather. In Levica, of course, we do not oppose state aid to all those affected by the weather. Here, I'm doing a little commercial for the evening, I was just reading: only Elektro Maribor had four million damage on the network at the time. But we have, as someone mentioned earlier, five million reserved in the state budget for such matters. However, we already have the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents in force for these cases, on the basis of which this aid can be implemented. Both this and some other natural disasters should be primarily regulated in this law, but it seems that a special law is often preferred. Thus, we have already dealt twice in this mandate with specific legislation to remedy the effects of spring cold, and we are currently considering the law on additional measures to address the consequences of duplicates and this intervention law. We could apply the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, if it is inadequate, of course we must make an appropriate amendment, and given the increasing number of infringements, this is of course necessary. However, then, ministers, the Government, specifically today SDS, would not be able to place and celebrate, in another case, as saviors and thus raise political points. The SDS is very good at combining political points. On the one hand, they propose an intervention law resulting from climate change, and in the law they give even a quotation from the prime minister confirming this and, on the other hand, the first-signed proposer, Mr Mag. Branko Grims, for example, said in Parliament at the 44th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly: “All that is about this intense global warming is marketing, nothing else. In order to divert attention from serious themes, from the collapse of civilization, from all other directions, one devil to a wall that can't really be a key, far from that. But some of them serve well with this.” End of quote. In short, someone here who is the first person of climate skepticism in Slovenia is now proposing an intervention law. If it's not a big tragedy, I don't know what it is. Of course, now there will be more to be served by those who, from all the more frequent and destructive weather phenomena, will be able to reintroduce intervention laws, to take care of the nation, while at the same time contributing to the continued warming of the atmosphere with their views and policies. The fact is that such an intervention law can mainly be drawn up by the Government, which has at its disposal a service that can carry out activities to determine the amount of intervention, assess the damage to things due to the consequences of floods, strong wind and so on. On the basis of these assessments, activities shall then be carried out to remedy the consequences of the Systemic Law for the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents or, if necessary, the necessary law shall be adopted. The bill that we are considering has not done so, of course, and in such a short time despite the kilometre of this party, it has not been able to do so, which is why the measures proposed by the law, in particular the collection of past smaller proposals, are interventions by the SDS into different laws. That's why we won't support the marriage in the Left. I don't know what makes me more sad as a Member, this proposal or three and a half years of this coalition. For three years, we've been listening to them find a system I don't know what. Personally, it has been very quick for me to say, after those short negotiations with Mr Cerar, that this team will not find the systemality. We also really need a system-wide regulation of the field of firefighting, particularly voluntary. Here I partly agree with what the proposaler said, even if he were not a descendant of the beginners of firefighting in Slovenia. We urgently need a reflection of civil protection within the MORS, including within the framework of human resources policy, such as the re-employment of soldiers, when they reach a certain age, into a civil protection part. As a result of all this, we urgently need other and different reserves of funds for capture in national budgets. But neither the government nor the department of department nor this proposal go in this direction. Of course, the next call by the National Assembly will have to go this way. I will say, the kind of partiality that this law introduces here — did we learn from Zuyf and from the buzzing, what does it mean to throw something that crosses a small million areas of marriage? And instead of that stunt from the draft crisis or crisis law that the government tried to enforce -- where they told me that I should support him because people were preparing for the FDV; if you were critical of someone, you should be the most critical of yours, if I put it that way -- you would be dealing with what I was trying to say here. This proposal does not deal with this. That's not what the Ministry's dealing with. Of course, we will have to take this seriously. Here I can agree that then this falls on the congregations and on a few people who are trying to solve matters. Anyone who's ever had a girlfriend or worked in the district knows that it can be dangerous to do so if you're not adequately protected and if you don't handle it. Then we get back to these "forest forest domestics", which is once again a sort of stunt by itself, about which we had an extraordinary session. We can't support this. We are aware, however, that the whole range of things that I have laid down here must be resolved so that the future captures that come will not surprise us, as we are always surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u57	Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! According to the proposaler, the law lays down emergency emergency remedial and preventive measures to remedy the effects of the weather damage that Slovenia covered between 11 and 12 December 2017. Thus, the proposal sets out the conditions and means of recovery of transport and energy infrastructure, the conditions and means of recovery resulting from heavy wind, wind and rapid snow and rain. The applicant assesses that the occurrence of natural disasters, weather conditions require rapid and simplified procedures which, on the one hand, enable a rapid return to the previous situation and mitigate the consequences of adverse events, but we are considering the intervention law for a month and a half after the natural disaster, which confirms that the resolution of the situation in the manner of adopting the law following a regular procedure is inappropriate. Unlike the proposed law, the Government has acted in accordance with established procedures, as already provided for by the rules in force to protect against natural disasters. This is because action in such cases is primarily within the power of the Government and not the National Assembly. The first information on the impact of the disaster due to precipitation and strong wind came to light on 13 December, practically as soon as the first specific information from the ground was known and acted immediately. It immediately called on all competent ministries to carry out all necessary activities in accordance with their responsibilities. However, with regard to the damage caused, the information shall be collected gradually in view of the circumstances in which this is also possible due to the situation and therefore to the facts which are fully objective. Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection and rescue of the Republic of Slovenia since 19. 12. 2017 collects data from the ministries, the Republic of Slovenia’s own Department of Protection and Rescue and from municipalities on the activities carried out and the assessment of the amount of intervention costs incurred in the course of action due to those weather conditions. Gathered data up to 19. 1. 2018 will be included in the report on intervention costs for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. He was also shortly after the natural disaster, which is 21. 12. 2017, a decision on the beginning of the assessment of damage to floods and strong winds. With regard to the individual solutions proposed, we believe that these should also be examined from a legislative point of view, as certain solutions may also be contrary to the legislation and the Constitution in force. For example, the law provides for the preparation of a programme without a pre-managed and certified assessment of the damage caused, defines the means of recovery, which also relates to the European Union Solidarity Fund, for which the National Assembly is not competent, allows exceptions to the procurement procedures, which is disputed both in terms of transparency and in terms of the choice of the most favourable operator, and all of these things may deteriorate earlier than normal. It should also be mentioned that in 2003 the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which systematically regulates the area of disaster management. In accordance with this law, the Government must take into account when deciding on the use of disaster relief funds that state budget funds can be used to address the consequences of a natural disaster for which the assessment of direct damage on matters is greater than 0.3 per cent of the planned revenue of the state budget, representing around €2.5 million. Therefore, it is only after being informed of the level of direct damage that the Government may determine whether the conditions for the use of State budget resources are met, and in this case it may order the competent ministries to prepare a programme to remedy the consequences of the damage suffered on matters and in the economy. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, as it could extend the measures to remedy the consequences of the damage in time. The Government’s response was immediate, aimed at assessing the situation immediately after the event and allowed the economic and social situation to be normalised or mitigated the consequences of the adverse event and the damage assessment activities are still taking place following pre-planned procedures and will be completed much earlier than they would have been if a new law was adopted today for the implementation of the recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u59	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting to all present, a nice greeting to the Minister! We have before us a proposal for an intervention law to eliminate the effects of the weather that occurred between December 11th and 12. As it appears from the material, this was filed immediately after this capture, just so that things could be resolved more quickly. It is clear that the procedure in the National Assembly is such that it is placed at a meeting such as the decision at the College of the President of the National Assembly, and in this case is so late, but the law is well-intentioned and tries to draw attention to things that are not covered by the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. But it also tries to speed things up through certain measures provided for in the law. The measures concern the whole range of things caused by this weather catch, not only the direct elimination of the specific damage that is usually remedied in those first intervention measures, but also the long-term consequences that both companies and local communities have. The law also draws attention to certain inconsistencies or irregularities in the Onus Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents. There has been a lot of talk about the increasing frequency of natural disasters, which is clearly also the result of all environmental changes, and the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters has to be adapted in some way. For example, there is no mention in the roofing law of windshield, and that is why the proposal in this law is to supplement this in the basic Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. The blood law also does not take into account to a large extent companies which have materially greater damage to such events than in normal business, and therefore the law provides for solutions to help companies, in particular electricity, which have suffered greater damage in a particular part, and means that a certain economic company has a comparablely higher cost in an area. The law itself also introduces solutions that occur every time there are some extraordinary events and when it largely focuses all attention on protection and rescue services, especially firefighters, who on the other hand do not receive support when things do not happen in space. Therefore, the proposal to allow certain ratings for firefighters, in particular in the field of job leaving, is that employers employed by a larger number of firefighters be allowed to reduce certain duties imposed by the State. I think that these are measures already in place in the European Union, especially in those countries that have many voluntary firefighters, and this is also based on the number of these organisations. It is appropriate to allow employers some additional credit in the form of employment and to have a larger number of firefighters available in their economic society when such an emergency occurs. The same is true of the proposal put forward by the intervention law to provide funds for the provision of firefighters, especially for volunteers, and also for preventive health checks, which are now under the burden of local communities in particular, but which are not systematically resolved. In cases where natural disasters occur, certain local communities are usually significantly more burdened already on the other operational tasks they have. This proposal would at least distribute this basic firefighter protection in the same way. The same is true of the proposal to introduce the possibility of additional health insurance to firefighters who are operationally in rescue activities for each day they carry out this fire service and thereby to provide additional insurance in the sense of pension insurance. Because in cases of natural disasters, the exposure of these people is significantly greater and the danger they face is very obvious. It is a matter of a special law, but if it were in the procedure when it was introduced in December last year, we might be thinking differently in the coalition. As time goes by for the adoption of this law, to a large extent certain things are being resolved by a roof law, but this does not solve all the problems that remain open in this area and is also addressed by the proposal for a law. In our parliamentary group, of course, we will support this law and thus allow a matter to be resolved even in the so-called peacetime, but not to promise and talk about the resolution of the status of firefighters only when they are in intervention. At that time, they have practically received all the promises when the intervention is over, and no one wants to hear about the problems that this organization has.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u61	Mr Primož Hainz will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Mrs. Irena Majcen, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the draft law on intervention measures to remedy the effects of the weather between 11 and 12 December 2017. In the last few years, our country has suffered some major natural disasters that have left considerable damage to agriculture and forestry. Of course, there is no doubt that this is the result not only of coincidence, but of major climate change. Almost all the possible forms — from the flood to the freezing and, of course, to the acorn that has particularly affected us — have flown us. Due to our greed in 2014, we even had to supplement the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, since the acorns due to the rareness of the phenomenon were not included in the natural disaster. The last such natural disaster took place in December 2017, when the hurricane wind caused losses and injuries in the natural environment and economy. The extent of damage in Slovenian forests is extremely large, as in some areas, for example in Kočevska, only half of the trees are damaged. After one month of this natural disaster, it even turned out that the first estimates of injury were too low and that the damage was actually much higher than it was supposed to be at the time of the first examinations. Of course, there are no definitive assessments yet, as the actual extent of the injuries will show up much later, especially in the area where the igures were injured. It is likely that foresters and forest owners will once again struggle with excessive loads of grassland if the fallen trees are not harvested in time, so by May somehow. As a result of these extensive injuries in the Desus Group, we understand and support the intention of the drafter of the Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of the Weather Capacities, but we believe that the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, which is a system law, is the one that already regulates the relevant legal basis for assisting affected people in those conditions. The proposer has included in the text a number of solutions which, according to the assessment of our parliamentary group, do not fall under such a law if natural disasters were not regulated by the law already mentioned. One of these, which is regulated by other legislation, is the resolution of the status of voluntary firefighters, the provision of funds for the operation of operational firefighters, preventive health checks and the financing of additional health insurance. The proposal also provides for the completion of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, the amendment being written down in a way that is a permanent and systematic amendment to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. According to our assessment, such a proposal as it is before us is not about solving a specific problem in a specific event, as is the case with the purpose of the law. We also disagree with the solutions offered by the law in the field of ensuring traceability of transport with forest forest varieties. In the view of our Group of Members, the legislation in force is properly regulated and forest owners and involved business operators are burdened to the minimum extent possible, and therefore we do not consider it appropriate to amend the provisions in force. The proposal provides a further derogation from the applicable legislation, namely the envisaged procurement arrangements. The novelty would make it possible to apply the negotiated procedure without prior publication for legal protection procedures, provides for the priority treatment of the audit applications submitted by the competent authority and for an extremely short period of time for their assessment. A valid arrangement whereby the contracting authority, under the Public Procurement Act, must normally choose suppliers of goods and services or works in the procurement process ensures transparency in the selection of the service provider, while at the same time allowing the choice of the most favourable operator. On the basis of these concerns, the Member and Members of the Desus Group assess that, despite the possible good intentions of the proposer, the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u63	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Before that, the representative of the Magi proposer will be given the floor. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u64	Thanks again for saying that. I have to say, this has been extremely interesting to hear. Like my colleague said, it would probably be a lot different to hear if we talked about this before the new year. It's been said a few weeks. At that time, these things were alive in consciousness, and in fact, what even a representative of the ruling Desus coalition had said was true at that time, namely that the damage was significantly greater than originally estimated. Initial estimates ranked about half a million cubic metres of fallen trees, now talking about over a million, in fact, some estimates suggest that the damage is even greater. In fact, things are still being reviewed, some parts are inaccessible due to large amounts of snow and so on. In short, the damage was severe and, therefore, is certainly justified in regulating this by a specific law. This Slovenia already knows, such cases have already been, and this law is nothing more than an appropriate amended law from that period. By saying that I don't know how it deviates from the solutions that have been implemented so far, of course, it's top-of-the-line. It's something else. The law, as it is, allows the damage to be resolved quickly, allows some unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles to be removed, and allows people to quickly come to compensation or solutions that enable them to live a normal life. As a result, the law provides for solutions that the current legal order in Slovenia knows, it is said that compensation is quickly paid, that specific tax reliefs are provided for in the law for the affected, reduced cadastral income and so on, and so on, that it is possible to make it possible to rebuild roads, power lines, all infrastructures, in short, all that makes it possible for people to live a normal life. Of course, the most affected parts are far from Ljubljana, far from the eyes and obviously also regret far from the heart of the coalition if we paraphrase that famous Slovenian proverb. The saddest part was listening to the words you gave to volunteer firefighters. I'm sorry. It's just a hoax. “Yes, you know, it would be good to settle it, but we should do it in another marriage, well, at one time, whatever it is, but today we won’t do it.” When, ladies and gentlemen? We have already talked about all these proposals in one form or another, and not one has been adopted so far. And now let's look at the concrete behaviour of the coalition when it comes to this, naturally, in the light of this happening. The first thing is, the Prime Minister of the Government, after his plane broke down, ran a little bit to take pictures at Lake and Bohinj, then we heard great words of thanks for the volunteer firefighters and for all the others who jumped in here to help, but when something has to be done for these people, "and no, that's not it, we'll do it once, you know, with the system law, once in the light of the future" if I paraphrasing leftists, after communism, in short at the world, because it will never be, thank God. Something needs to be done for firefighters here and now. Just as these things are arranged in our country, it's inappropriate, and you all know that. These people actually engage in every capture, every accident, every time help is needed, voluntary firefighting is a concept in Slovenia, is a value. And these people are over 40,000. It is not a handful of people, but it is an extremely good organisation that has its roots in the former Austro-Hungarian regime and has been preserved as a cultural tradition to this day. A cultural delivery with the greatest charge of the most positive thing in man, that is, the desire to help one’s neighbor. But there's never any money for them. There's always nothing for them but gratitude. These people are actually risking their health and their lives. There's been an accident right now, too, you don't know, there's been a few injuries, luckily no worse. But just a few years ago, to refresh your memory, one of the voluntary firefighters with life paid for his desire, his determination to help his fellow humans, right in the congregation of the Church, which was also affected by the floods. He paid the highest price. And this is not the only case in the history of Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen. There are also cases where people have lasting consequences, and this should be regulated systematically once and for all. It's an opportunity now. Do not say that we are regulating something with this law that should be governed by other laws. You know, that's what that coalition has been doing in this term at least 50 times. You've interfered with other marriages at least 50 times. Now, if you could do something for these people who just want to help unselfishly and get nothing for it, you'll find a thousand and one reason not to do it. What did we suggest? Solutions, which are the only logical solutions that are also comparable to neighbouring countries, and solutions that we have talked about many times. If I list them again: to provide funds for the provision of operational firefighters insurance, means for the preventive health checks of operational firefighters and to finance additional health insurance for voluntary operational firefighters and for each day of the public fire department – that is to say when they respond to the call for assistance – also additional pension insurance, which is only fair and fair, ladies and gentlemen. Clearly, the word honesty in you is not exactly a value. And there's something else you need to know. Today, volunteer firefighters face many problems at work, such or other forms of bullying, or difficulties at work. Employers do not like to be placed in key jobs, especially when it comes to more complex processes, because, of course, whenever an accident occurs, this person has to go, responds to the call for help and then suffers from this business or production process in the company. This is why it is envisaged by this law to also stimulate the employment of voluntary firefighters by reducing insurance premiums for employers and providing additional tax reliefs. What I say again is only fair to one another and to another. What's the cost? While we've been listening for over an hour just for reasons, why not, this is the rank of some 10,000 euros in total – do you know what a comparable amount that is? That's what one Ahmad Shamieh cost this country at a time when he's here doing black work. And it is brought to Parliament as the greatest treasure of this country — in an illegal way, by the way, for which someone should be held accountable. But for Ahmad Shamieh, not for volunteer firefighters. Oh, no. But we will always find in the coalition a thousand and one excuse not to do for them what in a normal country would be only self-evident. Today, in one part of these things, as you yourself have determined, they depend on the congregations. But here they perform tasks that are a mission that is wider than the congregation which concerns the wider community, which is based on what the State must and is duty-bound to regulate properly, so it is also only right for the State to provide funds to do so. We have proposed all of this by means of this law, and therefore we support this law. This law is justifiable and would be very good to accept. No, like you said here, because it has something in it that doesn't fit, precisely because of that and because it helps those who have been hurt in the last bite in the quickest possible way. Because only the quick-come help is the right help. And this help can't just be in gratitude and someone's going to take pictures there. This assistance must be in concrete actions, in a law that gives the legal basis that then the Government and all other services, if you want, can react more quickly on the ground, and that is the basis of this law. To say that there is no means in store, that there is no precise assessment – of course it is not, because this law leaves it to the Government to continue doing so. To get the legal basis, to speed up one thing and to get things done quickly on the ground, to undo the damage, to help people to make a normal life possible. This is the first and fundamental task that should be the task of all of us. That is why these reasons, which have been here today, I simply cannot understand, and I completely reject them.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u65	Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u66	Your Honor! At today's meeting, Minister Majcen, I can say that you have experienced all the damage, the forms of natural disasters very well in your mandate of the Ministry. Even in my good memory, I have a natural flood disaster. Then you were, I'll tell you, on the floor what you'll do. Half of Slovenia practically held you to do what you promised that night to move things for the better. They're coming from my side of the card. True, the watercourses in Slovenia have settled. Of course, they have arranged to the extent that the funds were earmarked for this purpose. I'm sure they're still not enough to regulate the watercourses, so there's no natural disasters, even as far as the flood is concerned. Of course, it is up to you now to manage other natural disasters as well as to manage the infrastructure and adapt it to the natural disasters to which we all witness. One year we have our stomachs, the second year we have windstorms or hurricane storms, the third year we have droughts, the fourth year we have floods, but if we have “happiness”, we can have it all together in one year, and then we can show the most how and how the infrastructure in Slovenia is maintained. I can tell myself that I may have expected more from regulating the infrastructure after the acorn. The railway infrastructure was almost 1 year dead, which means that the train did not travel from Ljubljana to Kopra for almost 1 year. If this is a success, it seems to me that we have to imagine what infrastructure and what we are able to do ourselves. Here it should be understood that certain parts may even need to be electrified in a different way, or not least in all the damage caused by electrical infrastructure or in any way seen from this point of view, we would expect that in Slovenia, however, we will decide on a more modern way to restore electricity to the ground. There was a lot of talk about it, but we found ourselves back there — we don't have the resources. When will we have enough resources in Slovenia to do things so well that they will also serve us in the event of natural disasters? This was also demonstrated in the event of a natural disaster on 11 and 12 December. It was dark again. In all of this, it might not be so much a problem for the government to react quickly and take certain intervention measures, but it was not detectable. However, Minister Majcen, I'm sure you've done more to eliminate the incident than you've done in your field, Minister Židan. There we are still discussing whether there was such a natural disaster to the acorns, which then caused a massive rise in the lobular or not. Now we are back on the same page, and we still have infamous carriers, which I don't know how they're going to speed up cutting, but of course it's prescribed, somewhere by May, things are supposed to be saved. And to finally touch those of whom I am also a member, and I am proud of that, firefighters. How many years have we been saying we're gonna get them status? Every year again. If the congregation hadn't scratched those coins and helped to establish some normal state and equipment of firefighters, I don't know, we would've gone over natural disasters. Even so, many societies are malnourished, with outdated equipment. And then some donations are collected, and I don't know what else to do, and then they're putting in cash registers and real estate taxes for firehouses. Isn't it our goal for all of us to be involved and to be humanitarian, even in the field of firefighting? Because we're all called to it. You can't wait for someone to come home, but you have to be the one to go. This law says that it is important to solve and help in a natural disaster immediately and very quickly because it does not help to ask someone in a month if he has electricity or if all basic needs are met. I'll back up the bill myself. I hope that we can come together and still do something in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u67	The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, again. Before anyone calls about firefighters, it would be nice to say, and I'm the one, and I'm in politics so much, because of all the people you're talking about right now, I'm the least time in politics. And when I listen to you as a teenager, I've already put out some forest fire in the old system, Mr Grims, without equipment like this, I know exactly what it means when you get a fire behind your back, and you're a kid, 13 years old, 14 years old, what's going on. Mr Grims and I are probably never going to meet about climate change, even because Brane sees as a baseline geologist in some longer vertical time, and I'm not kidding. Which doesn't mean it's not the responsibility of all of us 90 who are here or who are gonna be here to take this seriously. Are we having natural disasters? Yes, we do. They're changing you, they're stepping up? Se. Is this area properly regulated? We don't. Now I'm not gonna count 25 years, who's to blame, who's not to blame. Is firefighting a value? Yes, it is. It's probably one of the few things that this reference somehow agrees on. You know, I'll say what I say more than once, we have to think and-and. I take every legislative proposal that has been tabled in good faith. There are some things that are pure political nuggets, that's what we all do. There are quite a few good things out of this well-intentionedness in this proposal, and I must admit this frankly. If anyone, the government and those covering this area should say, see if we need an intervention law now or not. If we need it, we should either grab it or come with our own intervention law. With all due respect to the SDS, the government, the departmental ministries, probably have more information about what's going on. Even though we have all the people we don't walk around with our eyes closed. I was in Koroška last weekend, and my heart is sore that there's only one wood and all the hills are broken, scattered. I don't have much time. [[…]] You know, if we're talking about firefighting and ratings, we need to talk about education, because we happen to be sending someone away, and there's going to be another death victim. We need to talk about the equipment. Here I agree, it is necessary to systematically arrange for co-financing of the acquisition of this. We can't get the equipment on fireflies with these bites, I don't know, and when the inspector's out there exercising, if someone won't give me the bill, because I'm a drunkard, I'll tell you what. And, of course, the compensations mentioned here. You know, Ahmad, Neahmad Ahmad could also be a volunteer firefighter if you have to draw the story to Ahmad. That's who you are. We also need to talk about how we will build from the henhouse to the infrastructure in the future, aware of the concept. We should talk – and I am seriously not a man who deals with defence matters much – whether it is serious or more important than you say, to Nate that we will have a motorized battalion and we will have a new Patria affair, or whether we may need one helicopter squadron coming out of the grip. I think we'd need helicopters, not just because anyone will be Minister or President of the Government, and they'll take a picture of him with a helicopter, and then they'll put it on Instagram. But if I end with this, this story of the GGs, because some of them have really served shamefully well, we've seduced somewhere else, which could become okay, but it's not because a certain policy that sits here beside me has taken it away. But there are people — when we had that session, when they sent me the texts, that they were left out of checkers — who can work in the woods, know how to work safely in the woods. How will the state systematically grab these people, give them a shot, give them a chance to work? And you know, all the wood to clean up and sell it to strangers at a price, it's not exactly crazy smart. This is where we get a smart specialization, what we're going to do with this wood. If anyone is a noise, I apologize if anyone is offended, this Parliament is a noise. I hope the next call will be a lot smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u69	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Mr. Gniedar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u70	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! As for natural disasters, I would define natural disasters in category 2. One is a natural disaster that affects a person, but another is a type of natural disaster that cannot be affected as a human. We can affect natural disasters such as floods. The main flood in the Republic of Slovenia is due to poor water management, I know this very well, I live along the Savinja River. The Savinja River had its hills 30, 40 years ago modelly decorated, stone-coated, stone-shaped, modelly planted trees that held the upper part of the hill with roots. Let us look at these hills today, 30 years without any maintenance, or on certain sections, and so on. And I know very well from those days what a river overseer was. He walked with a leather bag, walked twice a year on both shores up and down. In short, it's a natural disaster that is greatly influenced by man. Another natural disaster, where man has a very powerful influence, is cold. The cold has been happening every year lately. Did the Ministry of Agriculture do everything? Has it taken certain measures with subsidies and so on? Because you can protect yourself from the cold. Have we done enough on this segment? We didn't. This is said to be a natural disaster again, where it is possible for a person to accidentally love it or save it. But then we have a second category of natural disasters, one that really doesn't matter. We can't affect the earthquake, we can't affect the pharynx that happened two years ago, and we can't affect the wind that happened on 11 and 12 December of the previous year. It is true that we have adopted the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which is a roof law that is supposed to regulate and solve all this problem, but in this roof law there is no such doctrine as to determine whether it is a wind or the consequences of an extraordinary hurricane strong wind. Of course, there is no such thing in this marriage. The proposal that we made in the SDS Task Force to address the impact of the windshield, which has been in much of Slovenia, especially in the western part of Slovenia – I know very well in Savinjska, Upper Savinjska Valley, Ljubno, Solčavsko, Logarska Valley, where there was a windshield, catastrophic consequences left in this area and there is a quantity of broken and broken trees enormously large. I think it is also very difficult at this point to realistically assess the extent and extent of this broken and overturned tree. And who are the ones most affected by this? These are local communities. These are the first to be struck, who have to take care of their inhabitants, who in certain areas, areas, not at that time, and even a few days after that could actually reach their homes. For several days, it took several weeks for the transport of both local categorised roads and roads of national, regional importance to be established. It costs the municipalities, of course. It costs the municipalities. First of all, because the congregations are the ones who will take care of the first intervention solution to the effects of the windstorm that took place in December, of course, with the services. First of all, there are voluntary fire companies, which are not only voluntary work done for free, but also all the other costs associated with eliminating this consequence. With this proposal, we would like to draw attention to this segment, which is, in fact, exclusively intended to remedy the consequences of this windshield. We know that municipalities are also receiving, but that is a very small proportion, in accordance with the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, where each year, together with the Institute for Forests, they set a priority plan for the management of infrastructure in forest areas. It is also possible to help municipalities to assess the damage to infrastructure together with the Institute of Forests and to reimburse the municipalities with this intervention law the costs incurred by the municipality in eliminating the consequences of this windstorm. So there's actually more options here. This intervention law draws attention to the shortcomings of the umbrella Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents and is strictly dedicated in this work. Are these shortcomings, which are now proposed in this intervention law, introduced into the roof law? Of course, it is also welcome that we do not accept for every kind of natural disaster of our intervention law. We note this in this part; that the basic intervention law is complemented by these shortcomings, and that it is assisted by local communities and all organisations that have had huge costs in eliminating the consequences of this. I propose that this intervention law be adopted and that at least in this way at least partially favours and helps those who have suffered this natural disaster in December a great deal of damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u71	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about natural disasters as well as other accidents, we can certainly take the measures themselves, both preparation and implementation, when a particular accident occurs, we can be divided into two parts gravely. One part is preventive, the other part is curative. Even the preventive part can somehow be said that when we talk about preparation for an accident, we can talk on the one hand about preparations for the accident itself, which have an impact and purpose primarily to reduce the consequences of the accident when it comes to it, and on the other hand, to prepare ourselves in a way that will make it as easy as possible to deal with the consequences. If I touch only these preventatives first, this mandate, given that the Coalition Treaty has written under Chapter Security and Defence, what will happen here, unfortunately we have not taken a step, despite the recognition of former Defence Minister Janko Webr, that he has at least set up rapid intervention units if a natural disaster occurs. Shortly after the government's appearance, there was a very severe natural disaster, in October 2014, when there was, we know, a catastrophic flood. That was already the second major accident in 2014, if we look at the month of February when it was the pharynx. We have also prepared a defence programme in the Slovenian Democratic Party just after the early parliamentary elections in 2014, and we have been betting heavily on this prevention after the accident. I will quote from our programme, what we wrote then, under the heading Defence, Sub-section Improving Governance and Management, quote: “The protection and rescue system and the defence system are part of the Ministry of Defence, while at the same time two separate subsystems of the national security system are organised on a completely different basis. The Slovenian Army is a professionalised, centralised and state-level single-managed structure. On the other hand, protection and resolution is a decentralised system based largely on the principle of volunteering and divided into three levels, local, regional and national. The practice and examples of recent major natural and other disasters in Slovenia suggest that the management and management system at national level needs to be redesigned, optimized and centralised. The decision to engage the Slovenian Armed Forces in these cases cannot depend on local community initiatives, but it is in the opinion of the Government's National Security Council. At the same time, the management of the protection and resolution system will be coordinated and unified with the concept of crisis management and management." And most importantly, in order to deal with the consequences of natural and other accidents, we wrote in the subsection in the implementation of the optimization and rationalisation of costs: “Saved financial resources”, I will not read everything where we would save it, “then we will use it to provide additional operational capacity to deal with natural and other disasters. Most of the financial savings from these optimizations and rationalisations will be devoted to additional financial stimulation of volunteers and investment in equipment, protective equipment and technology for firefighters and other voluntary and rescue capacities falling within the competence of protection and rescue. The second part of the financial savings will be directed towards the purchase of protective equipment and funds for the Slovenian Army, which will also be useful in the event of natural and other accidents." In short, the question that Dr. Franc Trček, when talking about the modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, or the money to invest in a motorized battalion fighting group or money to invest in a helicopter squadron, is certainly important in terms of the helicopter squadron protection and rescue system or any helicopter, but it is important to be aware of and remember what was happening in 2014 when it was the chorus. I think it was from the Lake Host that the 6x6 wave vehicles were also used in the job, in short, in the medium battalion battle group, 8x8 bikes, in the case of natural and other accidents, can be used for the purpose of protection and rescue, which has already been proven. However, I agree – and even in 2015, when we had an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the situation in the Slovenian Army, where the President of the State, Mr Borut Pahor, also gave his opinion to the helicopters we currently have and are also dedicated to the protection and rescue system, will soon expire. I think they mostly run between 2019 and 2021, so we will have to think in this direction about buying or updating. If I am well aware, it is the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue this year that intends to purchase its first helicopter in order to have it for its needs, for its protection and rescue, for the transfer of the unfortunates, for the rescue in the mountains and so on, which will, of course, be easier in terms of efficiency and coordination. When we talk about this prevention, the things I mentioned in here, we should actually buy equipment, when we look at the modernisation of the Slovenian Army, which could then be used by the military in the event of natural and other accidents. At the beginning of the mandate, there was a talk that all members and members of the Slovenian Army should take an active part in the chain saw course. We saw, for example, in Sovodnje, when it was February 2014, the natives removed the trees, what was broken and broken, with motorcycles and soldiers with regular sawmills. Two of them were sawing, because of those who were members of the Slovenian Army, there was no staff to be tested for handling a motor saw. This was neither possible nor feasible. But I don't know how the matter followed when then Minister Weber set up a rapid intervention unit. Even 48 hours, as far as the limit or response time of these members and members is concerned, I suppose it could be reduced. However, the second part of prevention is certainly what we can do — if I am now talking about the greatest possible effectiveness after the accident, after the accident has occurred, on the other hand — a measure or a multitude of measures that we take to mitigate the disaster as much as possible. Here again a case from the local environment, there were many times in that area of floods, remember in 2007, catastrophic floods in the Railways, unfortunately also fatalities, in 2010, then also in 2014, in short, we talk about centuries of water practically every two years. The only thing we can do here as a preventive measure is, at least as far as the flood is concerned, efficient, comprehensive water treatment. I must say and thank the Minister of the Environment and the place for the flood control of the Poljana Valley, and 2.5 million euros have been allocated to Poland in this mandate. The measures are already starting, so this is the only effective way to deal with this matter. But of course, then again we have the dissatisfaction on the other side. I got a few comments myself from the fishermen. The water economy regulates matters as it is regulated. Now we see, watercourses, virtually everything from A to Z concrete, which is of course bad for habitat, for fish, and here, of course, we need to look for some compromises between living beings, and which is certainly the first place, between protecting people and their property. I would also like to, Madam Minister, because you are right here and because this is a sectoral law to move faster as far as Ironworks is concerned. At that time, in October, we had a discussion about anti-flooding security itself, about measures, and given that it has been 10 years since that natural disaster, we could certainly finish things at a slightly higher rate, because this is another point under this prevention, so that we do not then face the consequences that we have faced in 2007, 2010, 2014 and so on. As far as the other side's concerned, it's an accident of some kind. Surely we can only do this by means of laws or in the way that the Slovenian Democratic Party did in this case. Of course I'll support this marriage. 14 days after this happened, I was in Kočev, in the nomadic forests, and I can say that the devastation was truly catastrophic. It reminded me of the cold in 2014 when I saw what it had done to the mountains in my limbs. Certain State aid is certainly necessary and is also justified. In particular, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, by this law, we wanted certain areas to be regulated and in some way the status of those who help and deal with these disasters is being resolved. Article 4 clearly states the content of the programme to remedy the effects of the weather. If you look at similar laws adopted in the National Assembly, when there have been some serious natural and other disasters, this is an article that somehow defines the program. However, it is certainly a law which, according to the text proposed, gives the Government very free hands, alone with its programmes, with its vision of how this disaster, or in this case this particular accident, will be carried out by the wind, to decide for itself how it will do so. We've talked many times about the status of a volunteer firefighter. Virtually everyone promises that this status will be settled whenever it is then tried, unfortunately, the proposal does not go through. The 14th Article, the additions to the Firearms Act, is particularly important for those who helped to remedy this natural disaster in December, in order for the State to provide voluntary operational firefighters with funding for additional health insurance and, for each day, for the implementation of the Firearms Public Service, additional pension insurance. We can say that this is a proposal in this law that is aimed at one accident, but this is a matter that goes wider, of course, which will apply — as the district law is changing — even in the case of natural disasters, which, as we all find, will not come once every hundred years, but we are witnessing to them very often. As regards cadastral income and property tax, as well as the Law on the Financing of the Communities, these are measures that are the only appropriate, logical, reasonable measures for those affected by this damage. You have areas where practically the entire forest has been conquered, and the situation is even worse on the ground than when you look at reports or pictures. It has already been mentioned that it will be possible to achieve what comes after 2014 to appear – and this will certainly only trigger the appearance – of the skull. Even after 2014, unfortunately, everything has not been cleaned, everything has not yet been repaired, because trees are broken down in such inaccessible areas where things are already falling apart, and of course it is reasonable that this cannot be remedied. However, we can go in the direction of easing the matter as much as possible, or preparing ourselves for future natural disasters, preparing, on the one hand, services that will intervene in the event of such accidents, natural and other, to have adequate knowledge, adequate skills, appropriate equipment to purchase Slovenian troops such equipment as will also be useful to protect and rescue, to intervene in nature in order to mitigate these disasters as much as possible, and to talk about the Kurativ, to have as few laws as possible, but that we are already preparing laws that will then have some basis for crisis resolution. I am one of the proponents of having a special law on crisis management and governance, because now it is under several laws, including the Defence Act, then there is something in the laws that are in the field of agriculture, laws that are in the field of environment and space, that we need a law that would define the protection and resolution process itself more, even though we have a good system that works, that we have a system that we can have from abroad, that we can already have a lot of envy, that we already have a largely voluntary firefighting society that has excellent equipment, which is thanks first to the sacrifice of these volunteers, then to all citizens and citizens who finance this equipment with voluntary contributions, and, thirdly, to the communities that invest and promote these voluntary societies, especially the Fireworks. But I would also like the National Assembly to show, the state itself, the government to support this system. Last year, when we adopted the budget, we had an excellent opportunity to give an additional two million euros, both for 2018 and for 2017, for a system of protection and rescue, for firefighting equipment, but we were the proponents in the Slovenian Democratic Party unfortunately for three votes too short, then it was – I will remember this vote – 39 vs. 36 for. And if we did then, we'd have 4 million euros more for firepower in two years. This is the curate, not only by such measures, but mainly by law to define the area and make the system of protection and rescue and other systems involved in the event of a natural disaster even more effective. As I said, I will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u73	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor, to be prepared by the Minister and the Secretary of State. Mr. Pojbich, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister! I must introductoryly say that, of course, this law, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be supported by the Government, for the reason that the Government has had sufficient time to this point, even the coalition will have enough time to take certain measures that are still necessary and should be taken in order to take timely action on the matters we are talking about today. But since that was not the case, we have, of course, introduced an intervention law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but now I am listening to the coalition, then I will also hear the Minister, and now suddenly nothing is right, nothing is right, everything we propose is not going in the right direction and so on and so on and so on. I mean, when I listen to this discussion, I have to say I'm very disappointed. It is said on the one hand that the Government and the coalition, which has all the instruments in their hands, do nothing or do very little, but then, when the opposition party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, comes with the right proposal to the National Assembly, a thousand and one excuses to prevent this intervention, as we have prepared it, from going into further consideration or being confirmed. But it's absolutely necessary. I think we all have to be aware that natural disasters have become a constant of today's times. Not to talk about windshields, acorns, floods, freezes and so on, we have all experienced this in the last few years very much together. But I am sure, and even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Government has not followed these problems in the way that this would be necessary at this time, as long as it is in power. Because if that were the case, we would not have to put in this intervention law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have also found together today that the roof marriage is flawed, and if the roof marriage is flawed, it has everything to do with the coalition and the government. Let's get you out of these flaws. Why does it not bring about a change in this law so that we can be significantly more operational in some cases when it comes to these natural disasters and that things will go much faster? I — which I am proud to be a firefighter myself — also participated when the river Poesnica sailed, helped build walls full of sand bags and saw how important it was that you were in the right place at the right time. However, you must have the right conditions to do so. Today, in this law, of course also in article 14, we are talking about firefighters. All those who are firefighters, I don't know how many of us are here in the National Assembly – I, I know what shortcomings are in firefighting societies, what firefighters, who are doing everything for free anyway. Even when we adopted the budget, we tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to increase the funds for firefighting equipment, and the coalition rejected it. We need firefighters only when there is a problem ahead of us; but when it is necessary to ensure that, under difficult conditions, they can also do their work in such a way that they are also protected, because they point out that they are also insured with all the technical means and all the necessary to do their work in a quality and safety manner; they are doing it for free, either way, as I said. And when it comes to firefighters, there's always no money left. I don't understand that. You know how much trouble there has been this year for firefighters, some structures to raise a few percent of their salary, or some classes. How many spilled ink there were, how many different discussions there were before there was any step forward at all. However, we do not have a problem writing down 16 million euros to Jankovic, and we do not have a problem with that. And that's why I'm saying where we live in this country. For those who save our wealth and our lives, there is no money for them: for thieves, but for those who are able, they are forgiven such and such debts, and there is no problem. There's no problem with millions; 100 million, 50 million, 200, 300, 500. Ladies and gentlemen, if you read on Twitter yesterday before yesterday, it left this country in 2017 in the oasis of €270 million, a year earlier close to a billion, a year ago a little less than a billion, all at the time of the leadership of the state of this coalition and this government. And you don't ask yourself anything, and no one gets hurt. But for firefighters, for what we're trying to achieve here with this intervention law, you're doing everything you can to make sure nothing changes. We will see how many Members and Members will be supported by this intervention law. We are in Article 14, and I ask you, if this is the case, in Article 14, we wrote the following: Proposal for a Law on Fires: In the Fires Act (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No. 113/05 – officially purified text) In Article 4, paragraph 5, the first sentence after the first sentence reads: “The status of an operational volunteer firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter, which stimulates the employment of firefighters by reducing the employer’s insurance premiums and by providing tax reliefs.” Colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, I'm asking you, what's wrong with that? What is wrong with this proposal? Then, “A new 3 and 4 points shall be added for the second point of Article 8(1), which shall read as follows: 3rd point – provides funds for the insurance of operational firefighters; and 4th point – provides funds for the preventive health checks of operational firefighters.” I ask you, a respected coalition, a respected government, what is wrong with it. Explain that firefighters and firefighters will know whether you are on their side or not; and today you have the opportunity to support this law, both ruling as a coalition. But if you find that anything else has to be put in, anything changed, anything added, then please be my guest. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we have given you a proposal that we can improve together; and we do not have any problems with it, but we all connect, not to the left, not to the right, not to the yellow, red or black, all of us. I'm sure we have to have a common interest here, because when we need firefighters, we have a common interest, and then there's no problem. And hereafter: »The third to sixth points become the fourth to the seventh points. In Article 26, a new eighth paragraph, which reads as follows: (8) The State shall provide voluntary operational firefighters with financing of additional health insurance and, for each day, with additional pension insurance.’ Dear colleagues, I ask you what is wrong with this. Why are you all looking down? And I expect today to hear a debate on these issues from the government and from other parliamentary groups as well; to see that we in the Slovenian Democratic Party are the problem that we want to help firefighting companies, so that they can function normally, so that they can provide quality services for which they are called. They're either way voluntary fire companies, working voluntarily. And the least we have to do is provide them with equipment so that they can do their job in a way that will also protect themselves. And we are obliged, in every way, to take care of them in this direction. And I don't see anything in this 14th article that would be wrong, which someone would have made up. We all know that if you ask any of the firefighters, fire companies, they will say — yes, bravo, this is it. That's what we need, that's the least the state owes us. But it is obvious that we will remain dry this time too, or only because the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one who has tabled this law, otherwise some normal, rational arguments to vote against it, I have not heard yet. I was here for a while, I was in the office for a while, but I listened to all the parliamentary groups, their discussions; there were some rational arguments. If we know that the law we're talking about, and that's the roof law, is flawed, I've said that this government and the coalition have every opportunity to correct this law. You should have done that a long time ago. Last year and the year before last was frozen in the Slovenian Gorges, where I come from. Twice in a row, it's almost all frozen. And what funds have they received back, and how long have those winemakers who have large vineyards been waiting for this because you know that there is a good vineyard there? Go ask, people will tell you. You know what they say -- these bureaucrats in our society, in our country, you're crazy, everyone in a row, from first to last. First to last. We had a problem right away, it happened to us today, we lost everything overnight. After that, we took some small solutions that made things a little bit softer, but the reimbursement of a fraction of the costs was given I don't know how long. I don't understand that. And in such circumstances, when natural perceptions of what has happened now happen to winds, the state should act immediately, not after a year, not after six months. Right away, because we can make such a law that it can be done immediately. That's not true. We can accept it, the National Assembly can adopt an intervention law for any matter; and this immediately. You can all nod your head so it can't be done. I know the National Assembly can do that. If the government proposes in a timely manner, these are crisis situations where the government can also meet at night, if necessary, at night. And there is no problem in adopting certain solutions that are simply necessary for such a situation. Now perhaps there is also a matter related to European Union legislation. I know that, but now I understand what you're trying to say, but we're in Slovenia. We'll have to help our people first. But we will defend ourselves before the European Union and we will say that we have done something because we wanted to help our own citizens and citizens to survive; we have done so. This is a policy for which I take responsibility, and I also hope to defend it before the entire European public, without any problem. Without any problem, because we do nothing wrong, nothing wrong, but we work in the interest and take care of Slovenian citizens and citizens. And in the European Union, they are the first Slovenian citizens and citizens. First it's them, then it's the European Union, believe me. And I'm willing to expose myself for my people right now, today, not tomorrow, when it can be a lot too late. And even after these bites that happen, you know what irreparable damage happens when it lasts; also recovery and all of this is taking too long. At that time, additional damage is caused as well. If we acted immediately, we could also resolve it immediately and there would be no additional damage, additional problems. Because I am also a fireman, because I have helped in these matters, I know how important it is and how happy people are when you are there at the right time; not to come in fourteen days, or in a month, two, three, four, when it is too late when half his house has been taken away, or he has thrown a roof out of his house. I've been there, I've helped, and I'm proud of it, thank God, so I'm also defending everything that's bound up in any marriage to firefighting, protection and rescue. We're all aware. I know we're all aware. And then I do nothing but ask all the Members to find a suitable solution in this regard and to regulate this status of volunteer firefighter in a manner that will be dignified and dignified. And they deserve it. Once again, I will support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u75	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u76	Mr President, thank you for your floor. The proposed law – in today's debate we have mentioned many things – represents a derogation from the system's regime for the resolution of the consequences of natural disasters, with a view to regulating the specific situation or the specific event; and it is also defined in Article 1 – that is, the event on 11 and 12 December 2017. I thank all those who did not have a few, some of which were Members who expressed their opinions and developed the knowledge that we really have these things well arranged in Slovenia and that when any unforeseen event happens, intervention groups react quickly. Especially at the local level, we know, Civil Protection Headquarters, yes; but first they go to the field firefighters. Surely I, on behalf of the Government, thank you for their efforts and actions. The first intervention part extends to the area of the Republic of Slovenia’s Protection and Rescue Administration, which, at the time, reacted to this event, but now also after the Government’s decision, has begun to collect data on the amount of intervention costs, i.e. costs incurred at the very time when roads were to be released or aided to people in protecting roof coverings. This administration also issued a decision on the initiation of the injury assessment. And this damage is, of course, described, we all know, we've all said this today that the damage was on many surfaces, in a large area, this damage is part of the Ida programme. In some ways, however, the description of the damage is limited to the Commissions in the municipalities, i.e. to local communities. And we know that, apart from companies, we need some common level, what and how to assess, these commissions have this exact data. The resolution of the consequences of natural disasters is, and now we are going to phase two, regulated by the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, which is under the auspices of the Ministry of Environment and Space. We in the Ministry do not see any indication by the proposer that anything would be wrong with this law; however, it is true that Article 13 of this law speaks of the need to add more – in the face of unfavourable weather conditions. This is referred to in Article 4, an adverse weather situation where it states something, but the very “disadvantaged weather situation” is the basic concept that defines this hurricane wind as the unfavourable weather that caused the damage. And of course there are no obstacles not to process it. There is no other provision in this law on proposals to amend the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. But it is true that Article 5 discusses control. The supervision of the implementation of works would be determined by law to DRI, otherwise in-house, which is known and used in the public procurement terminology, but covers public procurement between public sector entities. All allegations submitted by the Government later, i.e. the granting of an exclusive right of control, are contrary to the procurement arrangements provided for. When we speak politically, how much problems there are with public procurement, we are now introducing such an exception. If I speak after the preparation and acquisition of disaster relief funds at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, we will allow all applicants to do so either with appropriate programmes or with evidence of financial means. This part has been properly regulated so far. Public benefit in Article 7, construction of transport infrastructure and establishment of services. We talk a lot about service, and many know that it is necessary to obtain the owner’s consent for the service. In the event of an intervention, it is impossible to obtain services for the intervention procedure and, later, it is still necessary to obtain the owner's service in order to remedy these injuries. In Article 8, we again have an intervention in the Public Procurement Act, which the government opposes. In Article 9, you are speaking to the proposers about amending the Law on Forests. The State Secretary, Mr Marjan Podgoršek of the Ministry of Agriculture, will explain this part to you because he is a person who is familiar with these rules, and I am not alone. For the cadastral income after filing applications into the Ida system, these data are reclassified and are also used to reduce cadastral income. In our view, the derogation from the legal arrangements is unnecessary, and I have some problems with Article 11 of the real estate tax myself, but I will get over it. Article 12 intervenes in the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which is certainly possible or possible to enter into the Law on the Financing of Municipalities itself, but any other provision in this Act may be breached by such intervention. I said about the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, there are no obstacles not to process this event. And now in the preceding article, that is, this article, which speaks of supplementing the Fires Act, which is of utmost importance to firefighters in any way. The government believes that this needs to be regulated in an appropriate law; in such a law that will systematically regulate this subject. Once again, in Article 1, we are only talking about the removal of the consequences of the weather catch on 11 and 12 December 2017 and then, with many articles, we are interfering with the system laws. We suggest that this should be settled, if necessary, I still agree with those who have said that this topic is relatively well regulated in Slovenia. However, if you feel that something is not well arranged, it is necessary to change the laws of the system. Now I'm asking the Secretary of State to complete me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u77	Mr. Secretary of State, Mag. Marjan Podgoršek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Minister! The subject matter of the monitoring documents laid down by the European Timber Regulation or, more specifically, Regulation (EU) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council 995/2010, there is no new topic before the respected National Assembly. It was already regulated by so-called carriers in 2013, and then we adopted an amendment in 2016, which introduced or simplified this procedure. The current process is therefore optimal in terms of simplicity and feasibility, as it combines the whole process in one charter. The proposed solution, as in the law under consideration, would put in place an additional instrument, as it provides in Article 2 for the issue within three days; the precondition for the operation of the traceability system is that the instrument is available immediately upon dispatch. Therefore, from the point of view of the traceability regulation, this solution would not have worked and would have meant duplication in this respect, so we believe that the existing solution is more appropriate and simpler. In this place, because we are discussing the topic of the agglomeration, perhaps I could provide some information as a representative of the department of the department covering forestry. According to plans of the Institute for Forests, the recovery plans will be completed by 12. 2. and will be within the statutory deadlines. Because of the weather conditions and other specifications related to the type of weather catch, work on the ground is quite difficult and also dangerous. According to recent information very close to the final information, 2 million, 191 thousand cubic metres of forest have been damaged. The biggest damage is in Kočevska, followed by Postojna and some Koro region. With regard to this work at the operational level, there are currently no problems that need urgent legal action. The main problem that appears to be a major problem is that a very large volume of machine cuts will be needed. There is not enough capacity in Slovenia because working with such broken trees is quite dangerous, the trees are intertwined and dangerous for manual work. With regard to the activities planned, there are certain procedures by which we will increase the rental of machinery operators, including from abroad, so that this work will be carried out as safely as possible. Although there has been more talk on this subject on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In this regard, a state forestry company will also help, and someone else will be invited in this context. It is also planned that some of the measures already tabled by the Government in the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Renumerators would also be applied in this context. We are therefore planning an amendment in that regard, which would then achieve that those measures that are submitted there, because some of them are also very appropriate for this purpose, will also be used to address some specific issues that will be related to addressing the consequences in this area. So much for our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u79	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u80	Dear President, distinguished Minister Irena Majcen, distinguished Secretary of State Mr Podgoršek and, of course, colleagues and colleagues! My debate may be a little different. Someone will say that it is more forward-looking, but I know that my way of thinking is like this; that again and again we are touching these environmental problems, that we are living in a time when these environmental changes are very subtle and very obvious. Let's see the snow in the Alps. This snowing in America, this great climate change, we may not literally be aware on Earth enough that we have only one planet and that it has to be preserved in some way and behaved so that we can live here for a long time. We're talking about global warming of the atmosphere, the planet is becoming a warm beam. We've got a CO2 ring around us, and we're literally gonna fry out here one day, probably if it goes that way. We feel the most consequences here. I've already mentioned the snow. They barely met in Davos. There are such major changes that in one way or another show that action is needed. Whether it's snow or drought in winter, hail, acorns, winds — that's what we live for. It is necessary to respond appropriately and to act in our environment in such a way as to be an example to others without literally working differently across the meadow. In fact, they want to soften and polish and move on. Let's drive, get as much gas as we can. This is a very short-sighted view of the environment, of society and so on. From this point of view, I support all the efforts of the Ministry and all to promote the circular economy, the use of natural resources, materials, the forest represents our lungs, not just Slovenia, but also the planet. It absorbs carbon dioxide, binds carbon dioxide into wood, which is a very useful material. Why am I saying this? Since we need to have a global, systemic impact on the fact that this warm atmosphere will not happen to us and that there will be no such notions that we will not then have to adopt laws, intervention or such as are essentially intervention actions. I'm not saying we can't respond, but we have to act on the long run to get out of this story sometime. You're in favor of low-carbon companies, setting up industries that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Again, we are talking about a story that I keep repeating – these are our forests, the wood industry, the circular economy and in this regard the reduction in energy consumption. I have already mentioned that this law itself is an intervention and is solving some of the consequences of the wrong environmental policy – global, not just ours – over the past 100 years. My thinking goes in this direction to generate a flood of some laws that deal with some consequences that could be prevented by more effective long-term action in favour of the environment. Now I'm going back to that story. This law itself touches a number of areas, including forestry and, as a result, wood processing. I'd like to illustrate how we're looped into a circle from which we don't come. That's almost a third of an hour's worth of wood fell in this trap. We had similar traps a few years ago, the acorns, and we're still going on this story with the lube and this wood stays somewhere in the woods and we're in a vicious circle. We're not getting out of this. This damage happens to us more than once. For the first time, wood is destroyed when it's broken by windshield or icicle, and then a lot of this wood, because we don't have the capacity to process this wood, stays in the forest and this story repeats itself. We don't get out of this circle, even though we have a chance here. What else do these things indicate? That we cut 6 million cubic feet of wood, we export 4 million dollars, and I estimate that about 2 million remain in the forest where it generates these disasters. One time like this, another time in a different way. For a longer period, it is a measure to transform this wood that remains in the forest into products that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That's what that means. If we continued this policy not only in Slovenia but globally, we would reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We are now making aluminium products, glass products, plastics, which are in themselves large energy consumers, generating CO2 emissions, and on the other hand, we are left with wood in the forest and do not take advantage of it. Here I would like to point out that in this National Assembly we have addressed this problem with the law on the management of state forests, where we have earmarked certain financial resources. I am talking about €40 million for the establishment of a wood collection and processing centre. Now there is a profit, so we have the opportunity to distribute EUR 50 million into this business model that we are talking about – instead of exporting wood, we are turning it into products with a higher added value and, for the first time, we are creating wood consumers in Slovenia so that we will not remain in the forest; we are contributing in the long term to reducing greenhouse gas emissions; we are providing jobs. This is that long-term measure. The Secretary of State has already said that these forests are located differently across Slovenia. In Koroška, for example, there were 300,000 cubic metres of fallen wood, which means a year’s consumption of wood in one such plant that processes such wood. I would say in this debate that in the National Assembly we have adopted some laws that we should implement in order to achieve systemic solutions to these long-term environmental problems, captures and so on. Here I see an excellent opportunity for us to establish four such centres in Slovenia, one in Koroška, and to devote 10 million euros to each centre. This also follows the words of the President of the Government, who said he would give the initiative to make Slovenia the centre of the circular economy in the European Union. This is an excellent opportunity for us to implement the law we have. As far as this law is concerned, which is interventional; I think it has triggered a debate on this, but I think there are already similar laws regulating it. If any damage increases across a border, it is also possible to obtain funds from European sources. From this point of view, I am taking the initiative for this law in a way positive that it has opened up discussions pointing to the solutions and implementation of the laws we have; and they will indirectly prevent such disasters for a long time. Someone will say that I am discussing too futuristic, but it is a small matter of good practice that exploits our natural gift – forest and wood. We could be a causal example in the European Union of how we contribute to reducing greenhouse gases and reducing such or other disasters. I saw myself walking in the woods sometimes, and there's a walking hour for the weekend, and I went to the Ursula Mountain, which was a disaster. It is time to respond in such a way that we apply the laws that are in force to the damage that has occurred if they exceed those limits according to European criteria and criteria, that we also allocate some resources from the budget for this. Above all, I would focus on the implementation of the Law on the Management of State Forests and thus contribute to reducing the negative effects of greenhouse gas emissions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u81	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Get Mr. Janko Weber and Dr. Mitja Horvat ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I would like to reiterate what the purpose of this law is in fact. In any event, this is the implementation of the restoration of economic infrastructure, forests, the consequences of floods, beaches and the early recovery of damage to beneficiaries. It is a matter of some concrete solutions, namely that, on the basis of what the draft law is dealing with and what it is proposed, a much broader debate in this national assembly would be expected. Unfortunately, that is not the case, and I would really like to have a constructive debate because this is the first reading. In some ways, a constructive, broader debate could also help to identify further possible needs for such measures. Let me begin by reminding you of the words of the President of the Government when he visited one of the areas where he was severely affected. He claimed that many volunteers had been involved and that all of this showed that when nature showed us its power, human power would also manifest itself. Our power, respected in this national assembly, is to change legislation so that the measures are effective and effective as soon as possible. I can agree that whenever a disaster occurs in Slovenia, the speed of action is extremely rapid, even because we have extremely self-sacrificing people and volunteers who jump to help immediately, and it helps in those worst moments. Otherwise, it is later that the first wave stops and settles when an area of rehabilitation and reconstruction is needed. That's where things stop. That's where things stop. For many years and years, there is no solution; I will also point one out. This law is very specific in specific areas. Of course, we all need to adapt to face more severe climate conditions today and in the future, and we are likely to face different climate-related disasters, including nature, in the future. Of course, it is very important which countries are able to adapt as much as possible to this situation and to create such a situation that vulnerability and damage are minimised. We're also talking about vulnerability. In Slovenia we have adopted a legal amendment under this government, where the calculation of cadastral income is also ten times higher when it comes to forests, such as the cadastral income of agricultural land. Although we know that on the other hand, all these disasters, calamities, and so on are destroying forests, we have already heard of the damage. Is this a smart measure in view of the situation that we know in the country and that we are likely to face in the future. In this bill we propose that the calculation of cadastral income on 30 June 2016 be reduced by 50%. This is one of the concrete measures such a solution does not know the current legislation; however, it would be very welcome for those who face this problem directly. This is not about not knowing how much financial expenditure the country has, but on the other hand, this income for those who really need help in the face of such disasters is more than welcome. You can say that firefighters are not next to each other. I'm talking about voluntary firefighters, including operative firefighters. You will say that they did not only help in this accident; of course they did not. This is the problem, they are always present, they are always among the first to arrive at the scene of accidents, then we are all grateful and say how good the network is organized after Slovenia. When it comes to marriage solutions, it is forgotten and left to raise funds again through the various events they organize. Most of the time, we all know, almost every congregation or village has a fire party where they collect money for equipment and improvement of operation. But is this really the right and only way in this country that we are capable of? I don't think so. Here is one concrete solution that does not injure the country financially again as much as it does on the other hand. Data, in Slovenia we have a thousand 295 voluntary fire companies, respected. We have 68 voluntary industrial fire companies, we have over 130 thousand people participating in these associations, 130 thousand people. Here we can see how much our fellow citizens and fellow citizens are willing to do, given that it is actually a good work, only to work for the benefit of an individual and a country. In this law, we have prepared concrete proposals for the insurance of operational firefighters, for preventive health checks of firefighters and for the payment of additional health insurance, and for pension insurance to be provided to them at the time of their operation. Such very specific things. And we are again looking for a way that this does not belong to some marriage, how this should be in another marriage. It's looking for some holes. The fact is that this country also needs regulation in this area. In this intervention law, we have also highlighted this. And imagine all these firefighters once saying, "That's enough!" Why our health?Oh, my God! And on the other hand, thanks is of course very important; but the country does not even give us that minimum. We also propose in these measures to allow for better employment of this category of people, to reduce in some way the insurance premiums and tax incentives for employers to be seen here in some way and one priority in the country. However, the problem of different natural disasters and that we are very weak in Slovenia when it comes to adapting to these areas, even in the future, shows the longevity of reconstruction after various disasters. I'm only going to make one case. Not because it is the only one, it is huge in Slovenia, but I think it is important because I have participated in some of the proposals myself. In Šentjerne during those severe floods in 2014 the bridge was broken through the Masječa village. It is a bridge that in some ways divides the population and makes accessibility so difficult or virtually impossible. At the time, the Ministry of Defence really rushed and was the first aid in place, receiving a replacement military bridge. Today we are at the beginning of 2018. A few years ago, shortly after that accident, I proposed a change in the budget to help the congregation, because a million euros alone are not able to collect, so it would cost to rebuild. There was no hearing back then. Similarly, the congregation, the local community, is turning to the Ministry, has yet to respond. This was in 2014, and now we are in 2018. The alternate bridge is still there, but the Ministry of Defence is pressing in terms of telling how the final solutions will be addressed. How if the congregation itself is unable to do so?Oh, my God! But it is one of the flood areas, and the fact is that it must be followed in construction, that it will be long - lasting, that it will not be the first disaster again — God forbid it — to take away what will be put into it. We have great problems in this area. And this example of our intervention law is that there are indeed legal grounds in areas where we know that we are weak and that it is then possible to implement remedial measures more quickly. I am truly sorry, Your Honor, that this debate is very limited today. We speak mainly to the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am happy for all the others you have spoken about and are still reported for discussion. But I would really like one contribution to finding a common way and solutions for the areas, and this is not just going to stay today. And it's not just yesterday's disaster that I'm referring to yesterday; it's that we're going to meet these phenomena in the future. We are reminded of this by all experts involved in climate change. And we should be very careful about this part, even because we can prevent some things from being prevented, and especially that recovery is faster. I say that first aid is extremely good to organize, that there were really solutions here that helped do this, but then things stay. And it's been six months, over a year, people have forgotten what happened. But those who face this problem are left alone. It is therefore difficult for me to accept the opinion of the Secretary of State, who said that he is so caught up in such a situation, that the accident does not seem so problematic that we need additional measures. On the contrary, it needs them, and what more action would be needed for those accidents that have been in the past because they have not been remedied. We can't just leave things to local communities and individuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u83	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Prepare Dr Mitja Horvat and Mr Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The main focus in managing natural disasters and dealing with the consequences of weather conditions is that we have a very efficient network of volunteer firefighters who respond extremely successfully and in a timely manner and prevent even worse damage and protect life. The same applies to professional firefighters. We can be a little less satisfied – let's say just in the case of a concept that has caused great damage in the forests and closed many roads – with the organisation of a state-owned Slovenian National Forest company, which is not qualified at all to respond effectively and to open roads to villages, settlements, schools and also to areas in the forest that need to be rehabilitated. All of this has also been upgraded by the establishment of a modular unit in the Slovenian Army, which combines all of these capacities, connects to an even more effective team. Well, it's not being upgraded either, so these are some of the shortcomings that appear at this point. However, in the part where we talk about remedying the consequences of the damage, there is a particularly ineffective centralistically organised implementation. In this centralist organisation, it is an excuse: a lack; it must be a systemic measure; it is not in line with the rules of the European Union and so on. However, each natural disaster is very specific and is not very systemic, it is very specific where it happens. And it has nothing to do with what the European Commission thinks about it. People need to be helped, and the economy needs to be helped as quickly as possible to train infrastructure and to ensure that rehabilitation is implemented as quickly as possible. The only effective measure to bridge all this inefficiency due to these so-called centralist systemic approaches is to establish regional municipalities in Slovenia. Where the administrative unit is established, a regional municipality shall be established to which the municipality located in that area and the administrative unit shall be established. The powers of the Ministry of Environment and Space shall be transferred to these regional municipalities, funds; also the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Infrastructure, in a large part of the Ministry responsible for the security of life and safety in nature. Only this transfer to regional municipalities will remove the centralistic thinking of how to take it all together for as long as possible in order to delay payments in order to move away the problems that have arisen. Because people then self-organize themselves, but that's not what they expect from the country. And it is really not good to receive, for example, such warnings as we received from the Solčavans. Solčavsko was cut off from the world, and they themselves did great things to make it possible for them to access schools and kindergartens at all, so that they could come into the world and that help could come to them. And today they find that they have virtually no more of their own resources to, say, manage one of the future things that can happen in a short time. This is something that very much substantiates the need to have regional congregations to which we are transferring all these powers that we have today in many ministries. Before they come together, there'll be a second impression before they can save the last one.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u85	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Mr Bojan Podkoršek and Mr Jože Tanko should be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u86	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Dear Members and Members, Madam Secretary of State! If I continue where Mrs Anja Bah Žibert ended up before me, which I regret to miss now, because I would gladly, as she said herself, participate in this debate. I hope she's following me somewhere else and maybe listening to some part of my performance. I miss myself, I agree, today the hall is quite empty, very few of us have started today's session and there are currently few of us in the hall. I agree with that part. I think it's questions that are still very important, and I'm also surprised that there's so little interest. I will say in this part that I may be missing a representative of another ministry with regard to the topic that we have before us today, given the proposal that is somehow also two-layered, as in the Slovenian Democratic Party's manner. And if I focus a little bit on this part of what the government has also warned about and what has been lacking, it is probably not intentional, even when Mrs Anja Bah Žibert spoke about the response of the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar. He didn't just thank individuals, he didn't just talk about solidarity. Of course, he also thanked the firefighters and representatives of Civil Protection, who jumped in and immediately began the review and, to the greatest extent possible, to eliminate the consequences of this catch that we are talking about today. In view of the fact that the proposal for a law is called the draft law on intervention measures to remedy the effects of the weather catch between 11 and 12 December 2017. A real trigger, and I agree in this part that we must be as a society and we in the National Assembly pay attention to the changes that are happening to us and are out of the question because it is nature. But it's a question of how we're going to respond. On the one hand, because these events are quite orderly, as has been said in the debate, Member Weber also spoke about this in front of me. We know that a wide variety of natural disasters continue to take place and that we have always reacted to them in this mandate and have also taken some intervention measures to remedy the damage. But if today has been a little broader, it is only right that, on the basis of what we are talking about today, we look at how we are looking at the issues of climate and climate change and at the resulting damage that is constantly occurring to us. I can say that in this part I appreciate the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I also understand the signs that come from our species, that we may not do enough. Do we capture everything? Do we capture all those affected by the weather and the many extraordinary events? Are we prepared enough for them? Is the right answer insurance; must we all do more together? Today, I am pleased that there has also been a talk about the need to pay more attention to the environment in a broader sense and that we must take action in particular, not only do we realize that there is one; and that there is an eternal excuse – Sorry, there is no money, there is nothing we can do. That is why I will be somewhere where Mr Ljubo Žnidar spoke nicely about the Upper Savina Valley and the regulation of the Savinja Strait in this part 30 years ago, when, as far as the flood is concerned, certain problems have been detected because people do not take knowledge and knowledge in the field of leadership into account. Although the leaders warned that it was a rarer yet floody area, they wanted to build their own houses. By the way, at the previous point, we were doing real estate registration, black construction, and so on. Of course, there are many challenges to this work, to the extent that man himself contributes to the occurrence of damage in such weather events, even at the will of the people themselves who do not follow the warnings of the profession. The question is, perhaps even for the current ministry, the current government, the Members and Members, we can also ask the question whether our conduct before the good quarter of the century was right when we transformed water management companies into different forms and today we have problems like that. Perhaps a hint, interestingly enough, that such a proponent of the Slovenian Democratic Party did not submit to this law, which then has a whole series of instruments with which to remedy the consequences of the damage to the weather conditions on 11 and 12 December 2017. I hope you do not really believe, and at least from the debate so far, if there was a desire for an argumented debate on this bill that your intention was indeed that. For from the debate so far I have understood in particular that it is a matter of regulating the status of voluntary firefighters. As far as this is concerned, I think that the law on intervention measures to remedy the consequences is not an appropriate place to regulate this situation; however, it is appropriate to draw their attention to their situation. For this part, we are grateful and will certainly continue to consider how to improve their situation. As already mentioned in the introduction, when it comes also to the fact that the President of the Government expressed his gratitude for their efforts, for their dedication and their constant willingness to help people in these and other cases. Is it appropriate to control the implementation of works on energy and transport infrastructure by DRI investment management, d. o. o., or is it not? An interesting proposal, worth considering and some independent discussions, not only regarding weather conditions between December 11 and 12, but also broader. It is certainly interesting to see what is going on with the procurement provisions. I believe that you have read, and I will not repeat in this place that there is such a derogation from the rules on public procurement that, through an intervention measure, for all future cases, it cuts into the rules applicable in the European space and binds the Republic of Slovenia and also in our legislation. We are constantly on the agenda, we are considering proposals for amendments to the Public Procurement Act, so I believe that we can also do this in the debate. Perhaps something you are proposing today by this law is proposed as an amendment when the Public Procurement Act is opened. Or in the way you propose, with amendments to the Forest Law? We have heard in the debate before, all eyes are fixed on the Slovenian state forests. Slovenian state forests do not manage the entire forest in the Republic of Slovenia, so you may need to think a little bit more here. However, I am certainly pleased that the Secretary of State is with us, and he will most likely transfer this to the Ministry and the Ministry will think about what we can also do with the Forest Act in cases where the catch takes place. The damage that follows, as also pointed out by fellow Member Danilo Anton Ranc, if we do not recover the consequences of December 11-12 in a sufficiently fast time, is again followed by another damage caused by the attack by the underlings. It is a very complex issue and most likely as simple as you propose with the proposal of this law, it will not work. There is certainly a need for action, and it can certainly be something that I am following myself – on complex questions sometimes there are no simple solutions, but for certain complex questions we also need to find appropriate complex solutions, certainly based on knowledge and certainly by shoving off species and answering inter-resort questions of this kind. There are too few different areas, isolated each in its kindergarten, each ministry from its own perspective. In this sense, once again, I miss other ministries at this meeting, which could today have some interesting ideas, incentives, challenges, and perhaps already at this meeting we could think about the need to approach these complex problems in such a way that, differently than ever before, ministries can connect and find solutions together. And that for what you are offering today with your proposal for a law, that we find the right answers to these questions and that we all act together according to what we know is happening to us; and that we will also be aware of the part that we have received nature from our ancestors and that we will also hand it over to our craftsmen. Therefore, it is necessary to act responsibly, as far as this is concerned, not only can we follow the minor current benefits but we must not take into account the fact that such problems arise from our interference and our environment. Therefore, I must disappoint you in this part that the law, with this purpose, with such an address and in particular with solutions in certain areas, is not an appropriate institution or a suitable path in my opinion to answer all the major questions raised in this regard. I think that we will need to look for broader solutions and, above all, as I have said, with an interdisciplinary approach, a little by listening to what individual experts are alerting us to, we also have them in our space; and that we would also hear them to the greatest extent possible and act in accordance with their understanding and suggestions for future action. I also believe that we will not be ourselves enough and that there is a need to find answers to these questions and agree on each other in a wider space, and therefore the irresponsible conduct of individual, important, leaders in the world is not acceptable. At this point, I must express my regret if the visible representatives are unaware and do not act as if by one brief expression, I would like to assess the socially responsible, not only within the country, but also more broadly. I appreciate the initiative and efforts of the Slovenian Democratic Party that this debate has taken place today, and I am pleased to take part in it, and I regret that it is not more lively, as it has raised quite a few questions on which we need to find common solutions. Unfortunately, however, I must conclude that with such a law as is proposed, not and not with its amendment. In this case, I will have to say that I thank you for encouraging us to think; and that we will certainly find solutions in the way that is envisaged for us. In this part I also call on the competent ministries to think seriously about what and how to do in advance; to hear and find solutions to the challenges we have. If resources are not sufficient, we need to find and allocate them for such projects and have them available. And if this is more and more, if this is happening to us more and more, then we will have to consider, to what extent, how to change the laws in certain areas, and also in a broader sense to look at things globally. It wasn't all 11. 12th, I looked through Slovenia and the situation is really bad. When a person looks at the fallen trees, when he sees what damage the water has caused, what problems people have; today we have received, no one has mentioned, perhaps even in this place Solčavsko, cut off from the world, children who had to stay in schools. These are important questions, and it is very important that we look at where and what solutions we need to find, how to behave responsibly with regard to our interventions, and what we can do to prevent, to the greatest extent possible, such damage to humans. A moment in which we must also look at ourselves and wonder what I can do to avoid such consequences. And as in all cases, if we want change, we must always start with ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u87	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Prepare Mr. Jože Tanko and Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u88	Dear President of this House, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! If it rained together yesterday and today, two days together, this debate in this National Assembly would certainly be more concrete than some. At the beginning of this point, the colleague Grims' proposal for an intervention act was presented so clearly that everyone in Slovenia who is accompanying this meeting can certainly understand. But it seems to me that we who sit in these benches don't understand that. And at the beginning, I'm going to touch another point so that you can understand me all the people you're following here and outside what I'm trying to say. If our handball team were in the final of the European Championship, I don't think there's such a commitment on the part of the President of the Government or any other minister not to look at this final and wave the Slovenian flag, which is positive that I won't be misunderstood. But when this championship is over, let's all forget about sports. Now let me get to today's point. When nature shows its teeth, most of which we are responsible for, of course, living in this part of the world, not since yesterday, but for many years, surely many mistakes have been made in the past, the week that this happens and when the cameras monitor it, all the services are present. And especially those who are threatened, firefighters and firefighters, we explain to all volunteers much what we will do in the future so that it will not happen again. But that's only what we're saying the week we're all being followed. When this is over, let's forget it, and when the next natural disaster happens, we remember it ourselves, and most of all, we are reminded of it by the injured. That is roughly how this debate looks today. Today, many times it has been said what the intention of the Slovenian Democratic Party is to draw up this proposal. I think it's an irresponsible question for those who asked. December 11th and 12th isn't that long ago. One of them even told us that it's a pity you have to disappoint us. Personally, when I listen, I'm sad. You have disappointed all those outside this National Assembly who have been injured many times, you will be disappointed by your debate with the firefighter and the firefighters of all volunteers by pressing the button in the vote. I have never said that the laws proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party have nothing to add; never in this mandate. But to question the intention where nature shows stronger teeth each year, I find it irresponsible. When the President of the State, the President of the Government or the Minister accepts a firefighter when he brings from the water the man who saved his life. Or do we even realize that during today’s meeting thousands of firefighters are always walking on the thread as they save lives. Therefore, I am disappointed that today, at this point, we do not find a common way for us to be better, more successful in this segment, and especially today to touch those we need over time. It is not the biggest problem that there are not enough Members and Members in the Chamber, but they are outside, but they are accompanying this meeting, I have no doubt. The bigger problem seems to me to be on the other side of the government. This certainly shows clearly the attitude towards today’s point toward a topic that is burdening us from the past and will also burden us in the future. Today's point is also an indicator, not only because we have proposed this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but also a relation to this topic. Let me conclude as I started, but if it rained yesterday, we would have behaved differently until this point that we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which was originally presented by our colleague Grims, so that everyone outside this Parliament can understand it. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I sincerely wish nature no longer showed teeth, but these are merely godly desires. The intention of the Slovenian Democratic Party is sincere, the well-being of those who have already been hit by natural disasters is a good purpose for all those who are dealing with it naturally; and it is a good intention for all the things that I would sincerely like to see as few as possible in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u89	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Mr Daniel Krivec should also be prepared, and then we are going to the conclusion of the general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. First, perhaps a sentence on what we have heard in the debate so far, as well as a comment on what the Minister has said. Opinions always come to the National Assembly, when we propose a solution or a law. None of the opinions in this mandate drawn up by the Government were in such a way as to support the proposal for solutions proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. None of the opinions in this mandate have been so. Here is the question whether you think that the biggest opposition party in this mandate – and at the same time a party who has run the government twice – is so incompetent that it cannot draw up a law that is suitable for consideration in the National Assembly and which regulates matters in an appropriate manner. In addition, the Minister has stumbled in the introductory debate and I ask her publicly whether this law is so bad that it does not deserve government support; and whether there are solutions in this law that are already regulated in other laws. Madam Secretary said our marriage was not systematic. The intervention law, which solves a problem, probably systematically solves the matter of that problem. But I wonder why the government and the minister, who is already a minister, has not yet prepared a system law covering all of these things that we are proposing further in the wake of this fundamental accident, the traps that it has been? I also ask members of the coalition, particularly the modern centre parties, who read these reports from the government, why they have not prepared this so far. We wouldn't have to suggest that then. I don't think things are what the Minister says they are, as the other ministers say in some other case. Tomorrow, we will have two cases where it will happen again in the same way that our laws will be substantively weak. The problem is that we have a bad government; and the only defense of a bad government and a bad coalition is to try to humiliate the opponent with some of the Flosculs, and we are already experiencing this entire mandate. If the government and the Minister had anything serious in this area to fix or improve, I could also propose amendments to the solution we have proposed with ease. If it doesn't count December 11, 12, then write December 13 or 14, if it was then because it relates to this problem. If the date has to be deleted to be more general, then propose an amendment and we will address this in Article 1 of this Act, no problem. It's not our desire to compete with someone, it's our desire to make a good marriage that will stand and drink water. But no, the government is not enough to propose adjustments in this and this article in one way or another. Nothing. He just writes two pages of the explanation and writes that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Just do it. No other mental effort is made in this government and in this coalition. That's already symptomatic. In this way, I do not think that it is possible to take a responsible and serious approach, not to lead the government or to solve problems, but to take any area. Something is very wrong with the government, which is unable to listen to the problems that are previously in the National Assembly or to the initiatives, the proposals proposed by the parliamentary groups, individuals. It is interesting that when an non-systemic law is proposed by the Government, which has several comments on the legal and legal services and amendments such as the articles of the law, the matter is fine. Then there's no problem with systemicity, not integrity, not with who. Where members of the coalition, apparently in agreement with the government, propose solutions to make a little popular and show themselves before the end of their term of office, there is no problem. The government does not oppose, which means it has given silent support to the solution proposed by the coalition Members. Even more, this law must have been made even in government offices. Even in government offices. This would not be the first case in this mandate. You have a lot of options. At the time when we introduced this intervention law, we could put in our text of the law in an urgent procedure where we could resolve these things that we are proposing. But neither is that. In short, there is no desire in this government to accept anything good, but only what the government thinks is right and saving. The intervention measures provided for in our law cost about as much as the costs of tents you had reserved for potential migrants. They are no more than about €3-5 million, and so are the costs of emergency tents that you had set up in Slovenia and were empty at the time when there was no migration wave. There you can find money for a preventive measure; here you cannot find and provide money to pay the costs and some preventive measures that are also proposed in this law. As you have already said, and also in the explanatory statement, the greatest damage occurred in the region of Ribniška, Kočevska and some other parts of Slovenia. I think that the proposals we want to help those who have experienced this and who own agricultural land are rational and logical. The proposal to reduce the cadastral income by 50% to those who have experienced this concept and have been demolished by half or more of the forest is likely to make sense. Why let people pay full taxes if they've suffered obvious economic damage? The restoration of this forest takes 50, 70 or 80 years. This can be said by those who were somewhat involved in the forest and the wood. The consequences are irreparable, economic exploitation of the forest, where it is first after the lubadar, and now it has been created in some way, and it will have to be removed, naked, that is probably irreparable damage. But to the farmer who has experienced this cost and this accident, you don't admit it. You come in with a new law on property registration and real estate law, and there is no problem in bringing all these people together and putting extra burden on them, there is no problem. In cases where there is obvious damage, which is evident, you do not support this measure; by rejecting the law. It is also a problem that this real estate package, as I mentioned earlier, also admits absolutely nothing there. No discounts, no ratings. You will quickly find someone there from any sphere that is close to a coalition that will have to be further financed or given for some awkward project any big means to represent an alternative culture and perhaps make fun of someone. There is no problem of giving 700 000, 500 000, 300 000, to enable exhibitions abroad and so on; but in cases where there are serious problems of agricultural holdings, there is no problem. No listening to this and no relief to it. That in this case, when the Minister of Agriculture is not here, it is an unreasonable decision of the government and of the coalition. Nor does this measure in those cases where there are obvious damage and consequences that will not be renewable in decades, the government recognises no credit or relief. It's unusual, it's abnormal, it's cruel to people who pay taxes to this country; and even when they have an accident, they don't run into the government, they don't run into it. Promise some a salary raised by 30%, 40%, and they don't deserve it because they're already too high, and there's no problem; in these cases, total blockade and misunderstanding. It also seems to me that there is a need to sort out these fire-related and voluntary firefighters in some way. We do not only have a professional structure, but we also have an unprofessional, voluntary structure. Large burdens in such cases are borne mainly by voluntary structures across villages, smaller towns and so on. I must say that the vast majority of employers to these people are reasonable and not complicated, but we do have cases where there are, say, 5, 10 % of employees in a company or even more in the event of such an accident. There will certainly be production failures, production difficulties, planning and probably some minimal things also need to be made possible in these cases, including employers, in reducing various premiums or tax exemptions. And even for volunteer firefighters, this government could take care of it. In the case of this proposal, we are talking about substantially lower costs than you would be willing to spend on illegal migrants, significantly lower costs, this is a few euros. This law brings together about €5 million in costs, which would not even occur immediately but successfully. There's not even a chance of that. I propose to the coalition and to the government that it seriously consider supporting this law, giving it to the next hearing; and that any improvements to the law, not deterioration, but improvements to the law in a comprehensive systematic way be made by the government. In a situation where some things are handled after certain accidents, it is not possible to resolve by introducing five laws; therefore, it is an intervention law. Any change in the budget is not regulated by 120 laws, but the law on the implementation of the budget regulates the implementation of all other laws. An intervention law has a similar role to play in this area in the event of major accidents. I think it would be wise, although it is not exactly an honor for this government to support the marriage and to let it go into further proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u91	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Then we will go to the conclusion of the debate, where the Government and the representative of the proposer will get the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u92	Thank you for saying that again. I have already said in my opening opinion that we will support this law. The main observation that has been repeated throughout today's debate is that this is, in some ways, a non-systemic approach and that it is trying to be resolved in some partial way. However, the fact is that natural disasters are not a systemic issue as well, and in the past, actions and the legal basis for the resolution of a particular natural disaster have been improved through individual natural disasters. And in our proposal for an intervention law, there are quite a few extensions that can be incorporated into system laws; and so is the proposal. From this point of view, it would also make sense to support this law by all Members, and for the next instance, when there is a greater windfall, some things will be settled. There is also always a dilemma as to whether all these services, which act in the event of natural disasters, are appropriately placed in law; or whether all instruments that enable them to function properly are available. In this proposal, all the measures that have already been discussed in the past have also been legislative proposals, which also point to the need to be resolved in a specific law. However, it has not been heard so far that, at least in the field of voluntary firefighting, certain ratings are warranted by those directly intervened in a particular natural accident or other extraordinary event, as well as by working organisations, economic operators employing these operational volunteer firefighters. There have been several examples from comparable countries in the European Union that have these things in order. The same goes to our intervention law. The instruments used are harmonised and also comparable to European legislation. However, if there is no desire for any matter to change, it does not matter whether we are talking about an intervention law or whether we are talking about a system law. If someone does not want to see the content, it is also difficult to have a serious discussion and also decide for the benefit of those to whom the law is intended. I hope that there will be further consideration before we come to a decision to support some of the things that this intervention law brings and are welcome. There is also an opportunity, as has been pointed out, for the second reading and also for the third reading to improve the law; however, it will be very difficult if things are not willing to improve in this area. This bill also proposes that windmills, as a natural disaster, be placed in the wake of the law on the management of the consequences of natural disasters; and this is also some improvement of these materials. If you remember, the reptiles were not defined in this law and were later placed in the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. It wasn't there before. Accidents that occur and which are greater than those in the past must also be addressed systematically. All the extensions, if possible, are also in this proposal of our intervention law. However, the decision is on all Members who will vote on it. Our proposal is well-intentioned and solves all these problems that we can, we agree, also solve in some systemic laws. In the past, all these attempts, which have also been made on our part, have been rejected, and this last attempt has also been made to try to resolve the matter with intervention law in the event of an emergency.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u93	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, the representative of the Government, Minister of the Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u94	Mr President, thank you for saying so. By the way, I did not intend to have such a performance, but honourable Member Tanko, I will now say a little after Styria's, he was crying to me that the government would not support any proposal for a bill by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. But I can cry to him a little or a faest, as the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group is also not satisfied with anything that the Minister for Environment and Space brings; or I am told that the comments are also about laws that I have not prepared myself. So crying shows that sometimes it is good to sit down together, or things are not arranged for a long time, or it takes time to settle. I would return to our marriage, this is the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. Yes, I agree when it will have to be corrected or when we agree on what to fix in this law. It is not a problem to write this wind or not under adverse weather conditions. I am sure that even those who do not yet have some schools completed know that the wind as it happened to us last December is a natural disaster like an unpleasant weather. I'm just going to take a quick look at it again, at least I understood it today, and I don't necessarily get it right, because it's often told to me how I don't understand anything. But I understand that voluntary firefighters and their status should be seen as a solution in the Firefighters Act, especially because I am convinced that there is no hero among us who would say that firefighters are not the most important NGOs in Slovenia with the longest tradition and do the most. I am glad that firefighters are so healthy that this debate will not divide them either. It is important for them when they are invited to take action and do what they are asked to do or are expected to do. However, we have little luck in Slovenia this year or even last year. If we look beyond our borders, we can see that these natural disasters occur in all environments. And by interfering with such intervention laws for every such natural disaster, at least I do not see it in that sense, it is indeed necessary to resolve it systematically. However, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group repeatedly warns me, too, why so many laws need to be reduced by the number of laws, so that the transparency of what is contained in a systemic solution is sufficient. I think we also told the audience or those accompanying us what the problem is for the government to support this law. We repeat, so in Article 1, the law speaks of the arrangements for the resolution of the consequences of the natural disaster for the event on 11 and 12 December. The Government or the Authority for Protection and Rescue has carried out all activities and has prepared material to pay the amount of intervention costs incurred in the course of the actions related to those weather conditions. He was also 21. 12. Indeed, very quickly after the event, a decision was issued on the initiation of the assessment of the injury; it is true that the damage is on such large surfaces that the municipal commissions and the companies with the census have not yet completed. This final report of the Protection and Rescue Board prepares for the government and then, at our Ministry, prepare a programme to remedy the consequences of the funding provided. But the fact is, as Secretary of State Mr Podgoršek said, that the rehabilitations in the field are already under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u95	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u96	Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! Charity, help, help your neighbor is not reflected in words, ladies and gentlemen, but in actions. This also applies to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, from the words of the vast majority here apparently follows that the words were very high; but there will be no action. Thus it can be understood that you do not wish to consider this proposal at all stages. One of the Members used the term to refer to small things. Damage, which is huge, concrete lives of people, endangered lives of people – if these are small things, they are the small things that we are obliged to deal with; not only is it right to do business. I reject such understanding in its entirety. A comparison with the most insidious concept that has affected Slovenia, with its lust, shows that we are not very far from the situation and that it is an understanding that is very large in scope. The first scores I myself gave were then about half a million, millions, even over. Well, now the Secretary of State has said that the official rating is already 2 million and 100,000 cubic metres of broken trees and that it is not yet complete. After what I hear from experts in this area, the final will be even greater. At the end, however, about 9.3 million cubic metres of trees were to be cut down, as much as my memory is purely ok in this area. This is said to be slowly comparable, which means that it is justified to intervene in this case in accordance with the additional options that we have as a legislator. And that is why the bill before you is certainly justified from this point of view. What does this bill mean? Its adoption would allow the consequences to be addressed more quickly, in full, in order to speed up the payment of compensations, in order to provide tax relief to the affected, in order to ensure a more rapid recovery of roads and long-distance lines, and to ensure that all that is not available at this time is further ensured by the National Assembly as a legislator to authorize the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the speedy elimination of damage, and in its entirety, even by avoiding some unnecessary additional delays known by our bureaucratic system in the present case, unfortunately some of you have specifically praised this, but another article in this law, which, interestingly, has triggered an extremely large debate that should be arranged elsewhere. It's an article that means recognition to those who jumped in first. Not for the first time, whenever it comes to captures, firefighters are the first to jump to help; and so they will always do. Firefighting is a value in Slovenia, it is an integral part of Slovenian culture and is also an extremely important form of social life, especially in the countryside. According to official data, 133 thousand firefighters, or members of firefighters' societies, are fully assembled; of these, 40 thousand operational firefighters, those who are actually prepared and trained as volunteer firefighters every moment to jump to help. Just so we're aware of how important this is to society. If the law is adopted, we propose solutions, which we have already discussed several times, and we have never been willing to do so. It wasn't in the mood. I don't understand why not. We only propose that the State provide funds for the provision of operational voluntary firefighters in order to provide funds for preventive health checks on firefighters in order to provide voluntary operational firefighters with additional health insurance financing and for each day of the public fire department with additional pension insurance. It is only fair and proper for people who expose their health and life to help others. Let me say again, it is not only hypothetical, even in the last event, that the last catch occurred some injuries, fortunately no worse, but I remember well that only a few years ago it was right in the Churches in Gorenjsk, in my district, there was a death victim among firefighters when there was heavy rain, floods, they tried to save the house and there was a high-voltage electric shock. It's not something that's theoretical, it's unfortunately very practical. And these are not small things, respected colleagues and coalition colleagues. In addition, volunteer firefighters are increasingly experiencing problems when it comes to their employment. In some companies there are exposed cities, there are also several voluntary firefighters, and there are unexpected absences for one day or even for several days when the issue is more severe, there are production disruptions. Many have faced problems of bullying, even threats of forgiveness, and sometimes avoid employment. It is therefore envisaged that the state would stimulate the employment of voluntary firefighters by reducing insurance premiums for employers and additional tax reliefs. These are all solutions known to some comparable countries with a similar history, which have a similar fire culture, from the time of Austro-Hungarian times. It is not a special solution; it is a corrective attitude that the state owes itself in this way to those who simply gamble on their health and life. Ladies and gentlemen, in politics, they don't count the word, they count the acts. This is who will press the button for such a solution. You all said you supported it, but you would have arranged it once in a system law. Ladies and gentlemen, your term of office is expiring, but why didn't you set this up in one system law?Oh, my God! Then this proposal would not be here today. That's what you say when a solution is offered, and then it's not the right time. Before that, you have three and a half years of authority and do nothing in this area. Your mandate began with the year when there were very strong captures in Slovenia. That's not something special that would just turn up right now. To blur this out, which is unfair to firefighters, to always throw them under the table and tell them to wait for better times, you've blurted it out with all possible debates. I've been hearing so much about the warming of the earth and the weather today, and so on. I don't want anyone to be shocked, but, ladies and gentlemen, they've always been trapped. Many times in history, if you take a serious look at longer periods of time, there have been things that are much worse than those that we have been exposed to in the last period. There were many times in a very short time series, so you could say that it was a much worse period than it is now. And this strong story about heating that we've been listening to again today, because you've been trying to blur the topic that we have here today. If we go in a row, 150, 200 years ago, it was a smaller ice age than was said unofficially, and we are actually at some stage of the warming of the earth. About 300 years ago, it was much warmer than it is now, and no one talked about global warming and that we people didn't know what we did. Not two thousand years ago, however, it was so warm that there was a subtropic environment here that you had left, tigers, rhinoceros; therefore the black panther is still a quarantine symbol today and in the coat of arms and symbols we also find on the ground of the country of Slovenia, because these creatures lived here because it was much warmer before they died. Ten thousand years ago, it was the ice age again, and so on. Why? Man also has an influence, but the influence of man against that furnace in the sky we call the sun is negligible. The sun has an infinitely more effect on its activity than on its own, except for distractions and similar things, that's another. But when it comes to heating, there's a mechanism that's much stronger. The Earth also has some other mechanisms, such as oceans, that compensate for this. Therefore, to discuss this and to devote billions of money to it, it is really only a pioneer and for one’s benefit, and usually in the back it is also a good business because some serve it. But this debate today in this work was obviously only for one purpose to get us away from the darkness ahead of us today. It is a simple question whether, as legislators, we will help people who have been affected by natural perception and whether we will also repay as legislators those who have jumped to help and who will surely jump back to help. Only this is really a dilemma, everything else is the ballast of this debate. And unfortunately, most of you said that you didn't intend to support this marriage. This debate would probably sound different if this law came on the agenda substantially faster; I only filed it two days after the catch had taken place. When I could only go to the first day to see what the damage really was, because this is my end, the Predator, the Lake. Believe me, there are areas there that looked like a nuclear bomb went down, and you can't imagine that if you don't look for yourself. Yeah, they're cleaning up on the roads, but the damage is higher up the woods, and that's a whole other story. It should also be borne in mind that cleaning this is not a normal cut, which is also rightly pointed out by the Secretary of State. It's an extremely dangerous thing to do, who's ever seen it before, I've seen it, believe me, when one trunk falls over another, and if you really don't master it, you still have to have a little bit of luck when it burns down, it triggers with such a force that you can't believe it. And worse if there's an accident. Unfortunately, accidents occur, and there have been several fatalities in cleaning up leftovers. I'm sure it's going to happen this time, too. It can be avoided by machines, but, for the first time, it's too small, secondly, you can't get with them on every field. But if these things stay there, but the Slovenian forests are extremely affected by the ludadar, especially in Gorenjska, there are such droughts that when you look up against the hills, it's pretty bad because there's a whole patch of forest that's drying. And what happens now that he gets another boost because of this tree that's broken down if it's immediately and completely not removed. Therefore, it is necessary to first arrange all infrastructure, roads, bridges, and so on. This is linked to a lot of work and costs. What does this mean for forests, if all of this is not settled in time, you probably have a hard time imagining it yourself. Slovenia has this natural duty to have very many forests, but if it treats them as it has done over the last few years, it will not end well. We should do everything we can to get rid of these things as soon as possible and so that there will be no lasting consequences. We owe it to people, we owe it to people who live in all these affected areas, but I'm talking about the end that I know best, about Gorenska, and for example, Kočevska was even more affected, only a little bit further away from her eyes. This is about the question of the people who live there, as well as the responsibility of what some have said themselves – what we are leaving behind. Indeed, it is possible to follow routine, bureaucraticly established procedures, and things are slowly taking off and solving one problem after another, and perhaps all of this will be resolved slowly. However, there is also a possibility to accelerate this, so that the legal framework, which is just a few things, can facilitate additional powers for the government and the competent services; and, on the other hand, which, in addition, makes life easier for all those affected. And this is the law that is before you today. It would therefore be worth it and, therefore, it would be good, and it would be only fair for these people to adopt this law properly. The second reason, however, is that those of you who are so extremely disturbed are also responsible for firefighting, for firefighters, for the recognition of those people who are extremely well organised, who represent an integral part of Slovenian culture. I don't know if you're all aware of that. Firefighting is a value in Slovenia and should remain a value. But it is also a matter of admitting it by concrete action, with concrete assistance within the framework of our legal powers. As Members, we have every right to accept this. And I say that we also have a moral duty to accept this because it is a responsibility to people who have not only helped but also by their actions, with their help, sacrifice, question, expose their health, their lives. And that's a lot, that's all they can do for their neighbor. Therefore, let us express this recognition for help, but that it is concrete, not only in words. We all say – thank you, but it is a question of whether then we will finally do something about the issue of action. In politics, they count only actions and should always count only actions. Today it is possible to press the "for" button. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, and personally, we will be happy to do so to support this law, which would allow for a speedy remedy of damage, which would allow people in all affected areas to relive fully in the shortest possible time; and which would at the same time express concrete recognition of firefighting and firefighters, which they certainly deserve for their noble mission. However, if you do not do so, then you will only prove that Comrade Jean, who spoke earlier, was wrong when he said that in 2014 there were two natural conditions that had consequences; first the glands and then the autumn floods. Then you will prove that the natural traps were three, that it was the first stomach, the second establishment of the current government and coalition, and the third autumn flood. It's probably clear to everyone who's going to have the worst consequences in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u97	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If a representative of the proposer of the Magi law also applies to the debate. Branko Grims and a representative of the Government will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Intimacy is a natural phenomenon, so it is a phenomenon of nature that causes great damage. We have very different kinds of earrings. And I welcome today's debate, where I, too, expect it to thunder here, should strike arrows, of course, with words. The words should be thundering, and the words should be shone, because our only tool in this room are words, is speech, is debate. I regret that the government, at least as far as I can tell, has rejected this bill as little energy as possible. My debate will go in a broader direction, not just focusing on the weather perception that was between 11 and 12 December last year, but broader. Why? Because we just don't have any important issues here. I'm not just pointing my finger at this government, I'm talking to all the governments that should actually solve this issue. In these days we have received an important document, the 2030 Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, adopted by the Government. The motto of this strategy is – Slovenia, a country of quality of life for all. Some things are well written, of course we can also be critical of some chapter. First of all, they're well-written. If we want to achieve what is written down there, then this government should act and follow the direction of this strategy already in this mandate. Why? Because Slovenia 2030 will be tomorrow. This is the near future. And we think too little in the medium and long term. Not enough. And we are not aware enough that we have climate change, which is causing more and more catastrophic catches. Since Dr Mitja Horvat has somehow allowed us to touch on voluntary firefighters in this debate, I will continue the debate in this area. True, voluntary firefighters are the ones who understand what love for neighbor and love of nature mean most because they are the ones who save human lives and possessions. Although the region I come from is the least developed region; as far as firefighting is concerned, I can say that we are very developed. When Prekmurje joined Slovenia in 1919, and as people at the time said that freedom had taken place, then voluntary firefighting societies began to be established massively. And I am most pleased that today young people want to be members of voluntary fire companies, that they want to be members of operational units, and that it means to young people to be a firefighter, that it is a status symbol. Now let's see how this government looks at firefighters. Of course, everyone congratulates them, they want to bow down, because this is very appropriate for the pear of the Prime Minister or Minister. And then he turns his back on them and goes. And when there's a lot of firefighters on the pile, there's a minister who's supposed to be protecting volunteers and other firefighters, and he says, "The status of all volunteers involved in the fire department wants to be improved by amending the Fire Act." This was last February's 4th. I looked at where this firefighting law is now; if I see it well, I read it well, then it stopped somewhere in public treatment because the associations of the congregations, the congregations, have called on congregations that are very important in volunteer firefighting to make their comments. And now we are at the end of our term of office, the mandate is practically concluded, and it seems that there will be nothing out of this Firearms Act. Only photos of the prime minister, ministers, ministers with volunteer firefighters will remain. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not enough. This is making a fool out of volunteerism, which Slovenia can really be proud of. I conclude by predicting that New Slovenia will, probably already today, apply for an emergency meeting of the competent committees, where we will talk about drought – how to defend ourselves against drought, which is also a catch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u99	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! Today we are talking about the law on intervention measures to remedy the effects of the weather, which affected Slovenia from 11 to 12 December. There was a lot of talk about what we should do. This law was proposed by the largest opposition party. Mr. Grimes has talked a lot about curate. He was kind of angry when someone mentioned prevention, and he was going to say that we wanted to blur this thing out. No, I'll stop at the prevention because I'm worried about the future, I'm worried about the next period of what we're going to leave to our explorers. These major environmental changes are unusual. When I was young, I faced floods and hailstorms, colds were, but they were significantly different. The wind, which is the worst enemy of the forest, I certainly don't remember and others say it wasn't. I'm not gonna talk about it because I don't know that much. But I do know that environmental changes are or if we have a negative impact on the environment, that nature is returning it to us. This attitude towards the environment will need to be changed in the long term. It will be necessary, even though someone says that Slovenia is too small, there is also a Europe world. Why not start in Slovenia? We may be followed by Europe, we usually follow Europe, and Europe may be followed by the whole world. We'll have to if we don't just think from today to tomorrow. What do I see in these things? And I don't think that some of the productions that are environmentally harmful would have been cut off, but again, someone would have said that you were shutting down jobs again. No, no, no. The production that negatively affects the environment, which emits too much CO2 into the environment, will be taxed differently, but will have to pay more. I'm not going to talk about concrete and cement now; we know what cement production is like. As we weigh investments today, concrete construction or construction often prevails before wood; we know that wood has very good qualities. In addition, wood is a beautiful environment and staying in wooden buildings is significantly different from concrete or other materials. The forest only transmits CO2 to the environment when it's being smoked. Our goal is not to burn it, but to install it in as many objects as possible, wooden structures. As I mentioned earlier, concrete structures are 20-25% cheaper than wood. If this matter were regulated by appropriate taxes, those that have a negative impact on the environment would be significantly cheaper wooden structures and I think they would only build with wood. This is such a measure that I think we will have to change it in the long run. Of course, in a few moments I will focus on the situation that is now in the woods. I think everyone's trying in the woods. On the first day, civil society and firefighters were involved in setting up routes so that we could even return normally and drive on the roads. I wouldn't talk about firefighters, I have a very good attitude and I think about them, but I don't think today is the time. We're going to have to focus all our forces on disposal and get this wood out of the woods as soon as possible. I know there's not enough labor here to find it elsewhere, but I think it'll work out, too, that we'll cut it before we attack the grounders, as we often say to the lube. Some compromises with the congregations will also need to be found, so that, when possible, they can also drive this barn along local roads, as they get a certain percentage of the timber sold at the end of the congregation. I don't think that when it's critical when it's thawing, when it's freezing, it's normal, then we destroy the roads; but if it's possible, then we should also allow it at certain times. But I'll definitely stop at the wood centers. The solution that wood will stay at home so it will not go abroad is certainly wood centers in Slovenia. I think the government has already taken a step towards that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u101	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you, President. Comparing the results of democratic elections with natural disasters is a very valuable matter for such important status as Members. I admit that I would never dare to shave a fool out of natural disasters on my own, especially because we are accompanied through our lives and through our families. The fact is that the government is elected to democratic elections by voters. In this way, it is not good to distract or deny them the right to choose the one they trust. I wish natural disasters were less. I admit that, as much as I had contact with firefighters, especially in my previous function, you have contact in the municipality with many fire companies, which are organised in Slovenia in almost every local community or village; that they should have as little work as possible. As a municipality, it is necessary to provide financial resources to ensure that they are adequately equipped to have adequate firehouses, but indeed to have as little work as possible. The fact is that firefighters also carry out education and engage in all those areas for which they are called. These natural disasters that are happening to us are not comparable to the government that I think has done a lot in this mandate, and all the indicators testify to this. However, it is not good for the applicant to make fun of his own law in the sense of this implementation. That is why I have come to say to the general Slovenian public that the government is aware of the seriousness of natural and other disasters, that it saves them, that within three and a half years everything will not be resolved, we are also aware of this; but we will strive to pay more attention in future to such content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u103	I conclude the general debate. You weren't reported. It's the same application for everything, don't joke. There'll be no procedural ones, because otherwise I'll definitely get them. The last one wants to have the word "magic." Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you. As for the one who makes a fool out of someone; I fear that the coalition today has made a great deal of fools out of the afflicted in captivity and out of men. The fact is that the congregations are already engaged, that consequences are being addressed, and that some public services are involved. But all of this could take place more quickly and with much less problems if an appropriate law were to be adopted. The law that we take very seriously, Madam Minister, is not taken seriously by your coalition. Because we take it seriously from the responsibility of the people, all those who have been harmed by it, and all those who have jumped to the rescue in dealing with the consequences of the capture as firefighters. The fact that one of us does not take natural disasters seriously enough, Madam Minister, is that you will not be able to do so because no one will believe you. The problem we are facing is, of course, different; but if every proposal is so well-intentioned, I can honestly say that I had little hope that this law will be passed because it is recorded under similar legislation, it has been adopted in other cases in the past period. This system has already proved to be effective. And on the other hand, because it also includes firefighters, because it covers those whom we all owe a great deal to them in words; but when it comes to actions, we have carried out our own actions within our powers, when we have made such a proposal and we will also support it, but on the government side and there are no such acts on the coalition's side. Postponing the problem of once being a system law that you will obey, we all know what time it is; in addition, the time of the current mandate and the current coalition are running out. [[…]] As far as I know, there are only two months left when the National Assembly is supposed to be operating, then this story is over. And for the regular adoption of system laws – and system laws, you say yourself, you have to adopt them on a regular basis – time is running out. What you're saying is, how will a system law that should go according to regular law be? There's no time for it. In other words, you said that all those who helped were watching something and that you were putting it on the next term, whoever was already there; you wouldn't be there, by the way. And I'm very sad that it is. Sometimes I like to joke a little bit, but, Madam Minister, when you were talking about the formation of this government, I must remind you that this government did not come about by a simple procedure, because the last elections were really something special. Just before the elections, the leader of the opposition's prison was incarcerated, saying it could have been said that it was an electoral fraud on the basis of which this government of yours was created. And then we can really get what, with this relationship and with the priorities that I've shown you before, you've been so upset that 123 million for illegal migrants is not a problem; 50 thousand, or a total of 3 million, to remedy damage in the most urgent cases, that's the problem. In some law, with such priorities, forgive me, this is in conflict with the Constitution, with some social culture, with the relationship and with values, at least those I understand as values. It just doesn't work, it shouldn't be that way, it's not right. So don't mind if I tell you that in 2014 this poor Slovenia was obviously affected by three traps – the first is the stomach, the third is the autumn floods, and the government of the Republic of Slovenia was put in the electoral fraud; the one that is still going on today. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u105	I conclude the general debate on natural and other disasters. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 12th item of the agenda. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS FIRST OF ALL THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEAVING AND INJURY PROTECTION LAW The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of six Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, a group of eleven Members and Members with their first signed Magi are members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u106	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! We have before us an amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2, which brings three generally acceptable and important solutions. The first solution is that it gives pensioners the possibility of a hundred percent pension and allows them to continue working. Another solution is to enable employers to provide liability insurance in the event of accidents. And the third solution is to deal with the injustices of voluntary payers even after 31 December 2012. These are therefore the three key solutions proposed by Nova Slovenija as an amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2. Let me explain in a little more detail each of the proposed solutions. First of all, with regard to the first solution to enable pensioners to receive a hundred percent pension and to continue to work. Our principle is that when a citizen fulfils the conditions for retirement, then his pension belongs to him at full height, that's a hundred percent. What someone's earned, they've got to get. The second principle is that if someone wants to work on a full pension, he has to pay full contributions, like all other employees; this means that any pensioners who work are not in a better position in the labour market than any other employee. A while ago, the government put in place a solution that if one of the craftsmen is working ahead, only 20% of his pension belongs to him. The result of this decision was that as many as a thousand 942 craft were removed from the register, so they closed their activities, at least on paper. This, of course, lost the country enormously because there were no more payments to the pension and health allowance. In view of our current demographic trends, it is certainly desirable that we have as many pensions as possible. If our solution were established, this would certainly mean more payments to the pension fund than today. Who supports this solution? Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. That's their long-standing request. And let us not forget that this is what the White Paper also says about pensions, which was not published by Nova Slovenije, but by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Don't forget. Next solution, limitation of reimbursements to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The employer who today has an employee and this worker is injured and the inspection finds that too low standards of safety at work have been provided, may request the ZZZS to reimburse the costs of treatment. There are cases where a smaller company is also required to pay for treatment. Of course, this company is sinking $70,000. What do we suggest? We propose the following: if it is an intentional act not to provide adequate safety requirements, then the cost of treatment must be fully covered. However, if this is a matter of greater negligence, we are setting limits on the possibility of a reimbursement of EUR 15 000. It's a matter of debate, but it's the right height. By setting a limit, we allow craftsmen to ensure that this responsibility and these cases are adequately protected. The last solution we propose is the third to finally settle all the injustices that have occurred to voluntary pension payers. With past laws, we have arranged these injustices for those who have voluntarily paid up to 31 in the pension register. 12. 2012; our solution suggests that these voluntary contributors also be recognised after this date. So these are three key solutions, and I sincerely ask you to support these solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u107	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u108	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is on a substantively similar proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, as put into the procedure by the New Slovenia Group, and today before you, has already given its position. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also examined this time the amendment of the pension law, with regard to the applicant's statements and in particular the justification, and has decided not to support the law for the following reasons. The proposed law proposes the following amendments: changes in the arrangements for payment of 20% pensions to those who, despite meeting the first conditions for retirement, remain employed. The second set of amendments, the regulation of the liability of an individual for damage to an institution, the liability of the employer for damage to an institution and the change in the manner in which the period of voluntary entry into compulsory pension and disability insurance is taken into account. It should be noted in the introduction that the regulation of the double status of independent entrepreneurs — what is proposed — and the claims for compensation against the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance to employers is currently subject to a constitutional judgment and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet ruled on the requirements for assessing the constitutionality of these provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The Government therefore considers that it would be appropriate to wait until the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the current regime has been reached by further legislative changes. However, even in the case of possible changes to the legislation governing the so-called dual status of pensioners, the Government considers that due diligence and, above all, what is lacking in this proposal should be applied to all insurers in the same way. The government emphasises that such a dual status regime, as also envisaged in the starting points for the reform of the pension system, in the so-called White Paper, requires a systemic solution within the framework of the new legislation, as we cannot solve this problem simply by amending one article; not in the way proposed, in that this way is contrary to itself, but in particular disregard of the principles of the pension system. At the same time, it is contrary to many other provisions of this law. The government also notes that the proposal does not contain an adequate assessment of the financial implications, as it merely flat-rately assesses the positive effects of increasing the remuneration paid by those independent entrepreneurs who have dual status; it does not foresee how many independent entrepreneurs will be applying pensions due to changes, which will mean the expenditure of the institution. It does not assess the financial consequences of the suspension of payment of 20% of early or old retirement pension for all other categories of insured persons, except for independent entrepreneurs; in particular, it does not take into account the increased expenditure resulting from the modification of the way in which voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance is taken into account even after 1. 1. 2013 Let me tell you that the government's estimate of expenditure is only to take account of voluntary inclusion in the so-called retirement period without totalling more than €16 million per year. The Government therefore does not support the proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, as the proposal of the law opposes the rules on employers' liability for compensation, the rules on protection and health at work and the obligations imposed on employers by labour law. In addition, the proposed arrangement for the so-called dual status of pensioners and independent entrepreneurs is non-systematic and lacking. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also does not support the proposal for a new regime of non-comprehensible retirement, since it is contrary to the basic, fundamental principles of the conditions for retirement adopted by the last pension reform adopted by the consent of the social partners and also by a large majority in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u109	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Once again, we have a law that we have rejected twice in a slightly amended version. Perhaps the proposer believes in the river that he is going to the third, but he has decided to try again. Amendments and additions to the law are proposed to allow dual pensioners, which means that each insured person would have the opportunity to continue his or her activity, espé or to establish and receive the full retirement pension to which he or she is entitled. A solution to the employer's liability is also proposed if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence; in cases where the injury is caused by the worker, in cases of minor negligence. We've both heard and refused. In this proposal there is also a new proposal to take account of the period obtained by voluntary inclusion in voluntary pension insurance on day 31. 12. 2012; and after that, it is proposed to take account of this period as non-compensated retirement periods. The proposer again follows the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and unilaterally, past the agreements, as he proposes a new way of regulating compensation claims in such a way as to limit employers' liability for compensation. The commitment of employers to responsibility when they fail to carry out the envisaged safety and health measures at work, which result in an accident at work, is a mistake. And this mistake of New Slovenia has been repeated for the third time. Once again, we have already said, and obviously will have to do so once again, when we allow competitiveness to allow negligence or intentional abandonment of the provision of safety standards at work, we will first hit those employers, after those good companies that today ensure that all these standards do not allow themselves to be mistreated by their employees and do not want to put them out of their own job and do not want to put them in a situation where their health or life risks may arise. Regressive claims are as such an instrument that tries to prevent this and at the same time achieve an increase in the overall level of safety and health at work. Allowing violations of this concept brings us back to another era. As for dual status, however, it is again noted that retirement as such is not compulsory. It is up to each individual to decide, but it can also decide that he will continue to do his job. However, the fact is that someone cannot be a pensioner at the same time, receive a pension and be employed at the same time, have espies, perform business functions in an economic society and so on. Why? Because retirement in itself means that conditions have arisen when someone for old age or other reasons is no longer able or able to work. The fact is, some want to continue working for such or other reasons. Therefore, a discussion and discussion on the White Paper on pension reform or on the modernisation of the pension system is also open. The third thing, a new one in this experiment, relates to the recently adopted amendment to the law, which ensured that the period of time that people acquired through voluntary payment of contributions and was also considered by the old law to be working time in meeting the conditions, even after the new legislation, was again counted as a retirement period without redemption. People who paid voluntary contributions under the old law paid because they believed that this would be considered once at work and a condition of 40 years of working time for retirement. It is true, however, that we have settled only the question of the age that has been paid according to the old law; those who have been under the new law do not, since those who voluntarily pay under the new law today know that this period will not be counted as a condition of 40 years of retirement without a sum which allows retirement at a lower age without a reduction. If we shrug; in our Group of Members, we have certain concerns about all three proposed elements in the novel, so this time we will vote in our conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u111	The word is given by the Left Party, in its name Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Today, for the third time, we are considering the proposal of New Slovenia, as has been said, to reduce employers' liability for injuries at work, as well as the proposal to pay full pensions to those insured who continue to perform post-retirement work through the status of independent entrepreneurs. The general assessment of the Left is that the first proposal, i.e. the one on employers' liability for injuries at work, would reduce safety at work; the second, i.e. pensions, risks social dumping and misjudge our pension system. If I first touch on the proposed solution for the introduction of double pension status. It is suggested that the independent entrepreneur who reaches the age pension would start to receive a full pension but continue to do so to the full extent, i.e. the extent to which full-time employment is appropriate. We are opposed to such a proposal in the left hand side. Under the current regime, the pension is intended for those who are no longer able to live with paid work. A worker who meets the conditions for retirement but who would not have retired yet and has the opportunity, the desire and the ability to work ahead can work. He may retire in part, in which case he is entitled to a partial pension. If he retires completely, he can do occasional work. Under the current regime, espies and employees who have fulfilled the conditions still have the right to pay 20% of their pension. They can be espouses when they reach retirement age and start paying their pensions, including the procurators of their businesses and so on. If someone who meets the conditions for retirement and still wants to work, of course, this is commendable and the current arrangement allows him a lot of opportunities to do so. We therefore disagree in Levica with the arrangements proposed by Nova Slovenije. The pension in our system is not an income that people would get for saving in the past. The Pension Insurance Office is not this commercial insurance company that chooses premiums and then pays people their rent at the age of age. Employees and self-employed are not savers who voluntarily save, but we have, as in most other modern countries, a solidarity, a flow system in which current contributions are spent on current pensions. Since current contributions are not sufficient to pay pensions, we must ensure this from the budget – and we call this intergenerational solidarity. We therefore consider the proposal of New Slovenia to be non-solid. The first reason is to allow unfair competition. If I illustrate, a craftsman, a lawyer or a journalist, i.e. self-employed, who would receive a full pension while continuing to work, we could work at lower prices than younger colleagues who do not receive pensions. From the point of view of other lawyers, journalists, craftsmen, this would be unfair competition because those who could have been retired have an unjustified advantage over others. Other self-employed persons, however, survive solely from income from their activities and this would constitute unfair competition and social dumping for them. This is the first reason why we see such a proposal as non-solid. Another reason for the lack of solidarity is that it is likely to slow down the employment of young people. The proposer assures us that it is better if the retired person stays on the market and continues to pay contributions; but forgets that the total number of jobs is the key. When, say, some espé retires or dies, another entity replaces him on the market — another family member who takes over the company — that may be another espé who takes over his market share — this may eventually be a company that employs a worker who carries out those activities that he previously carried out. Therefore, the absence of contributions from closed espionage to the pension register is replaced by new operators on the market, and the payment of pensions to people who continue to operate will not increase the income of the institution; but will result, if expressed economically, in the opportunistic costs of those who will not be reemployed. At the same time, the extension of the employment age of self-employed people will slow down the employment of younger generations, which, we know, are already having problems finding suitable jobs today. A third reason why we oppose the proposal is costs. The applicant's statement that the proposal will have a positive impact on the budget is not appropriate. Already, more and more people are receiving these legally determined 20% of their pension, and last year the costs of this title were €7 million. If they were entitled to the full amount, the expenditure of the institution would have increased by five times and more later, as this form would have become more attractive. These are three main reasons why the first proposal of New Slovenia cannot be supported. The following criticism flies on the proposal of New Slovenia to reduce employers' liability for injuries at work. Here I must say that it surprises us that New Slovenia has proposed this proposal for the third time. I think everyone has made it very clear how we feel about such a proposal. And I'll read it again. Data from the 2016 Labour Inspectorate say: "Like 2015 and some past years, the inspectorate also estimates that the health and safety situation in Slovenia has not improved and is seen as insurmountable, as we do not find progress in ensuring the safety and health of workers in the workplace. The number of violations in the field of safety and health at work also increased in 2016. The first feeling of an increase in infringements was recorded in 2013 and the trend continued back in 2014, 2015 and 2016, when far-reaching infringements were detected so far. Compared to 2013, the number of infringements increased by 19 %.” That's what the findings of the work inspection say. In short, the number of accidents at work is increasing, the Labour Inspectorate says the security situation is inappropriate. Christian Democrats, I do not understand, have concluded from this that employers' liability for accidents at work must be limited and partially eliminated. I don't know how the rest of you look at this, but in Levica we have drawn the opposite conclusion from the same facts, so that employers must be forced by new measures to respect health and safety measures at work. Therefore, we have already proposed several increases in resources and new employment at the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. According to Ipes, more than 200,000 legal entities were registered in Slovenia at the end of last year and only 32 inspectors were registered at the Inspectorate in the field of health and safety at work. This means that 6 000 441 business entities or more than 25,000 workers fall off one inspector. Therefore, surveillance cannot be thorough and it is not surprising that safety at work is not improving, but the illegal exploitation of workers and the related accidents at work are spreading. The inspectorate's reports also show the structure of employers in whom the most fatal accidents have occurred. These data show that security is the most vulnerable to small businesses, which is precisely the category of companies that are supposed to be protected by a limitation of liability on the proposal of Christian Democrats. While the proposer repeatedly reiterates that the proposal does not change safety standards. Indeed, it does not change them; but it does reduces the pressure for employers to apply these safety standards in practice. I don't know how you can expect different ipies in Cyprus or cleaning services across the country operating under half-mafia principles to implement security measures. Certainly not out of kindness, but mostly because they fear punishment and damages. And if you limit compensation, you will reduce this compulsion and we will have more and more injuries at work, work accidents, including those with the death outcome. At the 29th regular meeting of April last year, Lah from New Slovenia openly said what the problem is: “We have a type of work where you simply cannot be competitive if you take all the security measures into account.” And Nova Slovenija therefore proposes that the whole system should now be adapted precisely to those companies that are threatening the safety of their employees. Really?Oh, my God! I'm sorry, we can't understand this in Levica any more than it's legalized security dumping. The National Assembly must not play with the health and life of workers, so we expect the Chamber of Commerce and its parliamentary representatives to stop these provocations and to reject such attempts consistently from the coalition. For these substantive reasons, we oppose the first and second measures in Levi, but we express our support for the third part of the package proposed by Nova Slovenija, namely the inclusion of those persons who have entered into compulsory insurance under the old law and have continuously paid social contributions even after the new law has been enacted, so that they can also be considered a period of 31 years. 1. 2012. In Levi, we have also proposed such a proposal on the Home Working Committee and we are counting on the social sense of Members. For the most part, it was for those who lived with only fees or for the long - term unemployed who lived through the incomes of their family members. Despite severe social distress, both funds contributed to the payment of pensions; the National Assembly then agreed with the so-called Visario law, supported by the then opposition, took away the essential element of the right for which they joined the insurance; and retroactively so. Of course, that's unfair. Our proposal was not adopted at the time, so we are pleased that it is being readmitted; and we support it. But as we say, because of the other two proposals that are unacceptable to us, we cannot support the package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u113	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, on its behalf Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u114	Mr President, the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In this mandate, we have dealt with changes concerning regressive claims and the dual status of pensioners on several occasions. Why the proposed changes do not seem appropriate to us in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we have already explained them and will only take them briefly. With regard to the dual status of pensioners, I stress that the regulation of the dual status of independent entrepreneurs is subject to a constitutional judgment, which the Constitutional Court has not yet ruled on. However, as regards the regression claims, I should point out that expenditure from the pension and disability allowance which is not covered by the payments is covered by the State budget; the reduction of liability and the proposed limitation of the amount of compensation upstream in addition to the moral imperative represent a burden for other insurers. Our position on these marriage proposals has not changed and we do not support them. In November 2017, however, we Members adopted amendments to the law, which in one part relate to taking into account the period of voluntary inclusion in pension and disability insurance in the determination of compliance with the conditions for old age pension, under conditions of 60 years of age and 40 years of retirement without totalling before 2013. We have thus abolished the anomaly that has proved in practice at the time of the implementation of the law, for which Nova Slovenije voted among others in 2012. At the time of the consideration of the novel, Members of the MP Group of the Modern Centre Parties highlighted certain dilemmas. While we are aware that the proposed amendments may not resolve the situation of all those who have been harmed in any way by the adoption of PPIZ-2, as our Members and members of the opposition have pointed out, we have nevertheless supported the bill. With the adoption of the proposed amendments, we have triggered the effect of the snowball, which is also the result of the proposal of New Slovenia regarding the effort to recognise this pension age. It is proposed that the unemployed person, who was voluntarily involved in compulsory insurance on 31 December 2012 and was still included in voluntary compulsory insurance by the application of the PPIZ-2, is considered to be a non-compensated pensionable period until the conditions for retirement are met. As regards the recognition of the period of voluntary inclusion in pension and invalidity insurance as a non-compensation period, the Constitutional Court has already ruled that the application of the non-compulsory pension requirement is compatible with the ZPIZ-2 and is not inconsistent with the Constitution. However, with the adoption of the amendment to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance in last November, exactly what many people today like to point out happened. The solution was partial and did not eliminate all the so-called injustices. We will support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the first reading of the bill, but we would like to reiterate that the solutions proposed to us regarding the regression claims and the dual status of pensioners do not seem appropriate. However, we certainly believe that the change concerning the retirement age is worth considering. Since we want the debate on this solution to continue on the parental committee, we believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u115	Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u116	Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which Nova Slovenije has put into the legislative procedure. The law proposes two solutions. First, the proposal to regulate the dual status of pension and disability insurance insurers in a way that each insured person has the opportunity to continue his or her activity and receive a full old-age pension when he fulfils the conditions, or, while receiving a pension, establishes a new activity without already reducing his or her pension. Another time. It is proposed that the employer's liability under the Pension and Disability Insurance Office would be acceptable if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence. However, in cases where the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases of minor negligence is not. In addition, the employer's liability is legally limited to 20 times the lowest pension base, which is assessed in Novi Slovenija as a proportionate amount in cases where the damage was not done on purpose. The law will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in its first reading for the following reasons. We agree that the pension is a right to be acquired under the conditions met on the basis of the contributions paid. It follows that everyone has the right to a pension, irrespective of the activity he is carrying out, when he fulfils the conditions for doing so. Where the pensioner continues to operate, this means only additional payments to the pension and disability allowance and additional value for the social product. Many pension recipients do not choose to carry out their activities or do their activities in black because their pension would have been reduced disproportionately depending on how much work they had to do to make up for their retirement. The current regime also implies the possibility of abuse of the right to a partial pension, since the payment of a partial pension depends on the amount of hours paid and not on the actual payment of the activity carried out. In our view, the proposed solution deserves further legal treatment, in particular to verify its financial impact, which, according to experience from other European Union countries, should even be positive. We believe, however, that the performance of post-retirement work should be limited not only to the performance of the activity, as proposed in New Slovenia, but also to the performance of the second job. However, the second solution proposed by this law has been dealt with several times in this National Assembly and has not been sufficiently supported. The aim is to relieve the employer of the regression claim by the Pension and Disability Insurance Office in the event of damage to the worker due to the minor negligence of the employer. We are fully aware that the widening of the liability of compensation mainly affects smaller craftsmen and smaller private employers, to whom such a regression requirement of the institution can also mean the closure of activities. The solution is partly acceptable to us, but only if it is clearly determined, on the other hand, that a disabled or other insurance worker will in any event be compensated for the damage caused by the minor negligence of the employer in the injury to the work process. Further to the legislative process, better solutions could be sought, including in cooperation with the social partners, namely solutions to ensure that the worker is not deprived in any way of the negligence of the employer; the employer is not responsible for the minor errors that occur in each work process, as contributions to disability and health insurance are already being paid in one way or another. New Slovenia also proposes a third solution to take into account the period of voluntary pension insurance by 31 December 2012, but this solution has already been supported by us and adopted at the November meeting of the National Assembly and is no longer current; or the recasting of the law in this part would introduce further confusion between pension beneficiaries and insurers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have also proposed amending pension legislation in order to take equal account, in addition to voluntary insurance, of the accrual of the pension age. The proposal follows the principle of equality, because we believe that taking into account the voluntary retirement age, those who have acquired the pension age are now in an unequal position. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that other parliamentary groups will support our solution, which eliminates emerging discrimination. I call again on the other parliamentary groups to support the further legislative procedure of the law which is before us, to seek together in the second reading to find solutions that will be acceptable to all, workers and employers, and those who wish to continue their activities or to carry on their work even after meeting the conditions for a retirement pension.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u117	The word shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, in its name mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go, Mrs. Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Have a good day to all of you who are watching the session! My intended conclusion at the presentation of the position of the Desus Group on the amendment of the New Slovenia Party's Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which we considered at the 30th regular meeting of the National Assembly last May and which had almost identical content as today's novelty of the same law, was expected to be realized. At that time, I predicted that after the third attempt, it would likely be time for another fourth attempt. Thus today, we have a fourth proposal for a new pension law on the table, which, like the previous three novels, is trying to enforce the adoption of solutions that have been unacceptable to the majority of Members and Members of the National Assembly and also to coalitions three times already. Three submitted novels and already rejected three times. Persistence is a positive virtue, but only when we want to achieve good things. In the Desus Group, however, we feel and repeat for the fourth time that this change in the pension law is not about a change for the better. The fourth experiment with the same content, which favours independent entrepreneurs in terms of pensions and compensation liability in the claims of the Retirement and Disability Insurance Institute, adds a new proposal to take into account the time spent on voluntary insurance as non-compensation periods. Ambassadors and Ambassadors of Desus have not changed our position. We're not going to support the proposal of the PIZ-2 novel. For us, the amendments to the pension law proposed by Members and Members of the New Slovenia are not appropriate and are therefore not acceptable. The dual pension status, which means the use of a pension while continuing to work, is properly regulated by the Desus Group's assessment only so that all pensioners have the same opportunities; according to the proposal of New Slovenia they do not have it. Under the current regime, all categories of insured persons or pensioners are now equal under the scope and rights. Thus, all – not only independent entrepreneurs, but also workers from the labour force – have the opportunity to remain fully active even after retirement and at the same time receive 20% of the pension. The same treatment shall also be given to all pensioners if they are partially retired or if they are reactivated after retirement. However, what New Slovenia is trying to implement is unfair, as they propose the possibility of using a full pension only to those insured or pensioners who carry out a self-employed activity. Any other option, the combination of full insurance from the title of other insurance bases and the receipt of a pension is not possible. So if the worker wants to work after the conditions for retirement are met, he will be able to do so, but he will not receive 20% of the pension, while the entrepreneur will be able to receive a full pension in addition to the full salary. In order to please a handful of people, Nova Slovenija is willing to overtake the interests of others, even if it is at the expense of the equality of all others. We are also convinced that this proposal, offered to Members for the fourth time by Nova Slovenije, would also be opposed by the Constitutional Court, which must ensure equal treatment of all citizens. However, if such an option, offered only to a handful of citizens, were offered to all citizens, including the public sector, there would certainly be a questionable financial impact on the budget, as these would certainly not be negligible. As regards the regression claims of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, we have also expressed our previous views that the proposal is also unacceptable in this part, as it is too much on the part of employers, which unfortunately are also poor and which are in relation to the worker in one way or another a stronger party. The New Slovenia proposal only defends the economic interests of employers, which is why Members and Members of Desus cannot support. We are also critical of the proposal to reduce liability and the amount of compensation as such a proposal destroys the preventive role of the system of ensuring safety and health at work, since the essence of preventing injury to employees is precisely that the threat of compensation discourages any infringement of the rules on safety and health at work. In this part, the proposal also draws on the logic of the compensation legal relationship, which has always had general principles laid down in such a way as to require greater care for those who carry out the activity and are employers than for lay persons or individuals. However, the last argument against the proposed regulation is that the proposed amendment would result in the loss of funds, as the proposed amendment did not propose a new source of funds to cover the shortfall in pension funds. The costs to be borne by the employer should therefore be covered by solidarity, which means that the difference or mania in the pension allowance should be covered by all the insurers and the State budget. In the Desus Group, however, we agree that the area of sickness and injury at work is still under-intentioned and regulated; which is not being addressed by the novel of the New Slovenia pension law. On the contrary, a major problem — this is insufficient protection for employees against the consequences of injuries and occupational diseases, which can result in a worker’s partial or 100% disability — does not solve the problem at all, but deepens it. The health treasury situation is similar, since the competent Ministry of Health has not yet taken care of the list of occupational diseases. Nor is the corresponding responsibility of employers and their financial obligations to employees addressed when the disability of employees results in injuries at work or as a result of occupational diseases. The new Slovenia therefore wants to relieve employers of the part of the regression claims of the pension register, even when their employees have suffered injury, occupational illness or disability due to negligence. Only gross negligence and deliberate negligence should be taken into account. How it is to prove its purpose in our legislation, we know it. Let me point out that the costs of employers for the damage caused by Nova Slovenija to the solidarity of all of us are still negligible against the costs that employers should bear if in Slovenia the responsibility of employers against workers for injuries at work, occupational diseases of employees or disability of employees for injuries at work or occupational diseases is also adequately regulated. The purpose of such regulation would not only be to provide financial support to employees and their families who have been damaged at work or suffer the consequences of permanent disability due to injuries at work or occupational diseases, but also to be able to rehabilitate and return to work if they are still able to work. At the same time, in the event of increased responsibilities of employers against injured or sick workers, the relationship of employers to employees would also change significantly. This would likely also reduce abstention, including presentation and lobbying of employees, and would also reduce the number of injuries at work, death and occupational diseases. Of course, not all employers go to the same basket, and that is why this area should be better regulated. However, the implementation of the proposed amendment to the pension law would not contribute to the more ethical and humane treatment of those employers to employees who do not treat employees responsibly and respectfully, on the contrary. However, it is also a matter of continuing pressure from New Slovenia to reduce taxes and contributions, this time some employers' contributions; without at the same time providing for the replacement of public funds that would fall out of the pension fund, as proposed by this party. International comparisons of the burden with taxes and contributions are also important in finding appropriate solutions or responses in relation to the change in the tax system. The Republic of Slovenia is, on the one hand, according to the data of the European Commission, Tax Trends 1, after the tax burden and on- average contributions of 38.7% of gross domestic product for 2015. In Slovenia this burden is 36.8%. However, from the data on the economic structure of taxes and contributions – we are referring to labour taxes, consumption taxes, capital taxes and property taxes – it is clear that Slovenia deviates from the average of European countries due to the over-average burden of work with social security contributions. Let me point out here the low burden on employers with pension contributions on the workload of employees. It is also the over-average burden of consumption; the under-average burdens are the most tangible. Let me mention the low burden of capital and property. The latter is also important from the point of view of the assessment of burdens, as it is necessary to look at them in a comprehensive and not just one tax or one group of taxes. Even after the workload in 2016, Slovenia reached 10th place in a single person with an average salary. However, we have developed countries, such as Sweden, Finland, Austria, Germany, France, Belgium and so on, which we want to be like. Taxes are intended for the good functioning of public systems – education, health, culture, police, judiciary, military, public administration, pension and social systems and so on. We all rightly expect good public systems that have a decisive impact on the quality of our lives, but that cannot work without money. Where only elite preference brings us, we can look at the wave of strike, triggered by an unreasonable high increase in the salaries of doctors and other elites in relation to the salaries of other employees. The fact that the state has to protect people with the lowest wages is also due to the behaviour of some employers who together acquired €3.2 billion of profits last year, but who are not prepared to share the added value with employees, although most of them are employees. Also 25 euros, with which minimum wages would rise slightly above the poverty threshold, seems to them to be too great a sacrifice. Nor do average wages in the country run out of inflation, not to mention an average old pension, which has not increased by 1% since 2010. Not to mention that people have withdrawn from their mouths to train doctors, but today some of them are expecting the realization of their entrepreneurial ideas with health tourism in public health infrastructure and equipment; along with the work of politics they are advocating the commercialisation of public health and the work of health professionals, but they do not have enough hearing for the health needs of ordinary people, otherwise they would not have waiting periods that endanger people's health and lives. These are real problems that politicians could solve with a little listening, including for most people who do not belong to an economic, political or other elite. In doing so, let me say that the Desus Group advocates healthy entrepreneurship, as it also strives for decent working conditions, decent wages and decent pensions. Therefore, in order to return pensions to a level free of past freezings, which prevents the deprivation of pensioners in future pensions, the content of the law that our group tabled in December. In addition to the third point of content of this proposal. The 2012 pension reform followed the objective of extending the work activity and establishing a so-called full pension, reflecting the overall work activity. According to this, the then government and the National Assembly, in agreement with the trade unions, have also adopted new solutions on how to take into account the period of voluntary pension and disability insurance. With the proposal for recent amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we have put in place a new regime to take account of the period obtained by voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance. The pension period acquired by insured persons on the basis of voluntary entry into compulsory pension and disability insurance up to and including 31 December 2012 shall be considered as a non-compensation period in the exercise of the rights under the new law to enforce before that applicable law. The Act dealt only with the question of the period of payment under the law before the law of 1 January 2013. The amendment of the previous law therefore followed the principle of the protection of the rights expected. The situation from 1 January 2013 and the payments for inclusion in voluntary pension insurance from that day onwards are part of a completely different story, since it is not a matter of modifying the rights under the 2012 Act for the amounts paid after 1 January 2013. In this sense, therefore, the story addressed by the amendment of the law that we are considering today has completely missed its objective, since both situations, the recent amendment of the pension law and the one addressed today, cannot be compared at all. In this second case, therefore, we cannot at all justify the proposal for a novel which we are considering today by ensuring the principle of the protection of the rights expected from 1 January 2013, since the law has made it clear what rights will be for those amounts which will be paid from then on. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will not support the proposed amendment of the law in the Desus Group. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u119	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia is an extremely pro-European party. We understand what we have written in the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, but we have written down that we understand that the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union means our fundamental political and value framework. We are therefore talking about politics and values. Therefore, in its core programme, Nova Slovenija advocates the inclusion of European standards in our labour legislation regarding the provision of working conditions, working time, leave, protection at work, conditions of employment or termination of employment. However, working conditions that go beyond these standards must be addressed in social dialogue between employers and workers or their associations or unions. The State must invest more resources in promoting health at work, raising awareness and informing employers and workers. This should result in fewer accidents and consequently less costs for the treatment or payment of pension and disability benefits. Sometimes we have a feeling when we talk about working relationships, about the relationship between the employer and the worker, that everything in the European Union can be done and that almost nothing can be done in Slovenia. I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that today's debate will also serve with an answer to the question of where to take an additional billion euros, which is the demand of the public sector or their trade unionists, and how to curb the exodus of young people. We know that every year about 8,000 educated young people leave our country and country. I hope that we will also touch on this in the debate. Of course we in New Slovenia expect your reflection, dear colleagues and colleagues. With some reflections, we are pleased and grateful that we have finally reached a point where we can meet and discuss solutions. But we are a little bit more disappointed when our proposal is actually rejected without consideration, and this is the worst for parliamentary democracy. Of course, we support the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance, which we have re-invested in parliamentary treatment. I also want to summarize the key solutions that the novelty brings. Firstly, the regulation of the scope of the Regression Applications of the Retirement and Disability Insurance Office, so that the employer is liable only if he violates the rules on safety and health at work on purpose or because of gross negligence, where the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases of minor negligence is not. We do not give the employer any commitment to his responsibility – we prescribe the penalty. When the cause of injury on the part of workers or in cases of minor negligence, this does not burden the employer. The amount of compensation shall be limited by law to a maximum of 20 times the minimum pension base, except in the case of a scheme. Second solution: Double status regulation. Slovenia and Slovenia are going on average two years faster, or two years younger, than at EU level. So, we've been doing less than two years. Now I'm not talking about how much and how we work, I'm thinking about efficiency. Third solution: Voluntary contributions paid to pension and disability insurance shall also be recognised for pensionable periods and for those who have paid these contributions voluntarily after 31 years. 12. 2012. The application of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office to employers is regulated by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ZPIZ-2. The regulation is similar to the regulation of the regression claims of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia to employers. We have already discussed them and unfortunately the New Slovenia proposal was not adopted. The problem in the area of excessive and unpredictable regression claims has not been the case since yesterday. Craftsmen and small entrepreneurs have been alerting them for years. The fact is that the current legislation and practice is such that a specific employer can have well-ordered internal acts, rules and education for workers in the field of safety and health at work. Workers can also be well-educated about all these rules, but because of failing to comply with the instructions, non-use of safety equipment or some other work accident, and in the worst case, a small employer who is generally economically weaker may face such a high regressive requirement of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance that his existence and the existence of his family may be compromised. Let us note in particular that in the event of closure of trades or businesses, all, both employers and workers, are out of work and income. In the case of independent entrepreneurs who respond with all their assets, whole families may be at risk. The second major reason for New Slovenia's adoption of the law is the fact that, by limiting the regressive claims to a maximum of 20 times the minimum pension base, the basis for the creation of insurance products by commercial insurance companies is laid down. Currently, craftsmen and entrepreneurs cannot insure the risk of regressive claims in commercial insurance companies. And that's the problem. With regard to the regulation of this dual status, Nova Slovenija considers the current solution to be criminal and has caused inequality before the law. In our view, each insured person must be able to continue or establish his or her activity, while receiving the full retirement pension to which he or she is entitled. Retirement is a right. Why would the state prevent, forbid, a citizen who would want to do so after retirement? Does anyone dare to say what is actually saying here that in Slovenia work is forbidden when you are retired? This is crazy! This is not in line with European standards. We estimate that this can only be good for the pension fund, as the full contributions of these insurers will be an additional inflow to which the state gave up with the government novelty. We also estimate that such a way of resolving dual status is more appropriate than the one recently introduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as it encourages insured persons who would like to remain active even after meeting the conditions for an old or early retirement to do so legally. In Novi Slovenija we also support the proposal that voluntary pension and disability pensioners also receive the period after 31. 12. 2012 recognises the pensionable period without totalling. Among them are many women who belong to the most vulnerable group of people who were 31. 12. 2012 registered at the Employment Institute and included in voluntary pension insurance and continued to pay for voluntary pension insurance under the new legislation until the conditions for retirement were met. According to the ZPIZ-2, this category does not have the right to reduce the age limit for work before the age of 18 years, does not have the right to enforce children for the reduction of the age limit, nor can it impose reductions for the duration of military service. However, we must wait until the age of 65, which is almost 6 years older than the age at which most other citizens are currently retired. If they had retired early, they would have a pension of up to 18%. Members of New Slovenia will, understandably, support the proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u121	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, the representative of the Magi's proposer gets the floor. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u122	I am pleased, according to the views of the groups of Members, that if I count the votes of the parliamentary groups that have announced support for this law, we will come to 60 votes, which is almost two-thirds of the support. We will support this marriage. The support has also been announced in the SMC and in the SDS, and we both thank you very much. I hope that this will be one sign in these last months of this mandate that we will not insist on all things on the hard opposition-coalition trenches, but that if there are solutions in the law that are generally good and acceptable, then we will support such laws. Now, about individual comments or problems, problems you had with our marriage. As has been said several times in the debate today, this correction of our ZPIZ-2, which is the pension law, proposes three different solutions. I will first touch on those who have done wrong to those who have also voluntarily paid into the pension register after 31 December 2012. I think the thing is, if we're going to end the injustices for those who did it before 31st, 12. 2012, then this needs to be arranged for those who have done so after that. I think it's a question of equality, if we've already settled for one, then we need to settle for the rest. Here I also understood the key support of the SMC. I must admit that I did not understand exactly where they were in the SDS with this proposed solution to the problem. They are likely to complement this position in the debate. Since we are not taking anything with this solution, only if one group of citizens has been able to do so in the past, now we are allowing this law to another group of citizens. So, as far as we are concerned and as the majority in this House are concerned, it is not disputed that we will finally settle this matter. Next thing, a predictable business framework. We too are a little tired of the constant repetition because we feel that some of us do not want to hear and insist on our ideological assumptions. Here I have to respond to the position of the Social Democrats, who said that we owe this solution to employers. That's not true! That's not true! And I'd like you to finally start listening. I think that this is the first time in history in all of these discussions that Member of the Moon has also acknowledged, finally admitted that this proposal does not reduce safety standards at work. We've taken one step further, though. If the United Left also finds that our proposal does not reduce standards of work – then what do we propose? We still propose that employers who do not intentionally provide adequate safety standards must pay the full cost of treatment. And please don't blame New Slovenia, if the inspection here is ineffective, it's not a New Slovenia thing, it's a matter of organizing an inspection, and the ministry is watching over these matters. But after this proposal, those who do not intentionally provide security standards pay the worker's full costs. Then we have where the greater negligence takes place. Until now, in the event of accidents and the treatment of workers in the event of increased negligence, this amount is unlimited. We have cases, a specific case from the district of Member Škobernet, where the employer received a request from the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia to pay 70,000 euros for the treatment of his employee. For a small company of these 70,000 euros, it means the collapse of this company and the loss of all the jobs that are collected around this company. So what do we suggest? Let's just set some limits, though. We, as we said in Levica, and I think in Desus and in the Social Democrats, do not untie employers of responsibility. We set the limit that if an accident occurs and if they have not provided adequate safety standards, they still pay 15 000 euros for the cost of treating this worker. They're paying, not imaginaryly someone else. Employers pay. Why is the restriction important? The restriction is important for employers to be able to secure this potential liability in insurance companies. They pay a monthly premium, and if such an accident occurs to them, the insurance company pays for the treatment in full. That's the point. If, for example, I don't know, the Left, which is not in favour of entrepreneurship, represents that the penalty of EUR 15 000 is too low, this amount can also be raised in further consideration, in second reading. After the talks we had with some of them, they are also prepared for twice the amount, including 30 000 euros, but it is essential to place a limit somewhere, because no insurance company wants to protect this responsibility if there is no restriction. So we just want to create a more predictable business environment with these proposals, and we are by no means diverting entrepreneurs from the responsibility that they are not responsible for a potential accident. The key is — and I would like to ask that, especially in Desus, they listen very well — the workers are not in anything worse. Because of this proposal, the workers get everything from the hospital to all treatments, services, everything. This proposal does not affect the rights of workers in any way, but regulates only the way in which these workers are treated. That's the whole point of this marriage. It would be fair for those who for some ideological reasons are simply rejecting this solution to say how this matter could be handled properly. But do you think it makes sense that, say, 5, 6 jobs are failing because these treatment costs can be so very high, or is it better to set a limit on what is being paid? This, of course, is a key question. And we must not forget that employers warn us that every month a certain amount is paid for the salaries of workers, i.e. damage at work, and that some 70 million euros are collected from this title, which are spent inadvertently. I think that I have explained all things here, and I am only happy that in today's debate, however, a little less of this demagogies or false deceptions have been used than in the past. And now for double status. Someone who has fulfilled the terms of his pension must receive this pension. And that's the basis you should understand in Desus. According to the position of their parliamentary group, it is understood that they are not in favour of having a worker fulfil the conditions for retirement so that he may receive the pension in full. That was their position. Our position in Novi Slovenije is that if someone meets the conditions for an old pension, he can get it 100% if he wants to, but he can work on it. What is the result of today’s arrangement? If someone wants to work on it, they only get 20% of their pension. Of course, no one's going to agree to that. And because the craftsmen did not agree to give them only a fifth of the pension, they closed their activities. Statistics exist and say that in 2016, due to this arrangement, nearly 2 000 entrepreneurs and craftsmen have formally closed down their activities. But when you go out in the field and talk, they say, "You know what, if the state doesn't allow us and doesn't allow us to get a full pension and work on it, yes, look, then we formally close our activities to get a 100 per cent pension and do the same." In a way, people like this are forced to work in black to work in such a gray area, and that doesn't seem right. Then there is another ideological floscule, which she used especially in Levica and Desus, they say: "These rich craftsmen not only have good wages to earn, but now they want a 100 per cent pension." Please, come on! If you go to look at the socio-economic data, who were mainly these people who got, who wanted a 100 percent pension and work on it, these were mainly those craftsmen who had extremely low incomes, so extremely low pensions, and they were improving their position by doing something else. I think that you, as Members, have received quite a few e-mails in which, in particular, shoemakers and seams have warned us that their pension is so low and so miserable that if they do not work together, they cannot survive. And with your arrangement you now force them to work in black, and with our arrangement we would legalize these things, so that even the pension registers would receive certain contributions. It's also about getting as many payments as possible to the pension fund. These thousands of 942 people who have closed down their activities today pay nothing in the pension register. If our solution had been established, there would probably be income in the pension fund. In view of our demographic situation, it is clear that we need as many payments as possible in the pension register. And one more thing, those who say that you are advocating equality, in particular this left part would ask you to listen carefully, explain how it is possible for doctors in particular to receive a full pension and work ahead, and the craftsmen are not allowed to do so. Explain why this difference is. Why should we follow some of your discussions outside the constitutional framework if we only enforce what doctors and craftsmen have today? Explain this very simply. In some ways, this proposal also introduces equality. If I'm done with this, I don't know, you're probably a Levica who'd rather shoot her in the knee than support some proposal from New Slovenia. Even if she agrees with him. So it was somehow understood by the Member of the Moon that while they agree that those who voluntarily paid into the pension fund should be settled, but most likely because we have proposed it, they will not do so. This is said to be an ideological charge and a framework of awesome hardness. Then we get to the famous Desus. I listen to a Member representing from the point of view of the Group of Members, they stand up for everything, they will save everything, but when there is concrete action, their fingers become numb. So let's ask ourselves if this approach of yours is right because we're supposed to stand up for the pensioners. At least that's the way it sounds from public debates. Let the pensioners explain because you say you're more homely with the pensioners, let them explain why pensioners should not receive 100 percent pension if they deserve it. Why? It's a very simple question. Answer that question. Someone who has worked for 40 years has fulfilled the conditions for retirement, why such a pensioner should not receive a 100 per cent pension if he wants to continue working. Also explain why you are opposed to increasing your pension payments. Today there has been a major shift, even Member of the month admitting that these deficits in the state budget must be paid to the pension fund. So every citizen we get to pay in a pension box is a great thing for a pension fund. But I said official statistics – you lost a thousand 942 people who are paying into the pension register. And also explain, and I did not fully understand your Ambassador Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, why you do not support that even those who voluntarily paid for the pension fund also after 31. 12. 2012, eliminate injustice, like those who did it before that date? It would be good to explain these things a little bit more. As I said, I am happy that this law will go forward today in order to go to a different treatment. The law consists of three different solutions. We will see what solutions will then have the majority support in the second reading. But it's still a positive sign. This positive sign is that at least some of you in this House are willing to at least talk and seek some solutions. That's a positive sign. I don't know if it's due to the closeness of the election or if something else has changed, but it has to be said that it's a positive sign. About a month ago, whatever came out of the opposition was probably more likely to be hit at seven than to bring some opposition law through the procedure. So thank you once again to all those who will support this marriage today.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u123	Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u124	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In Novi Slovenije we are on the side of working people and it doesn't matter whether someone is a public administration worker, independent entrepreneur, craftsman, manager, doctor or anyone. Those who work honestly should have a fair pay. We're against unfair practices in any profession. Nor can we divide the pensioner into those honest, well-deserved pensioners and pensioners who do not deserve them. If someone worked full - time and earned a pension with this, it is only right that he enjoys that pension. If someone is an independent entrepreneur and wants to work ahead and pays all the contributions — why would they even take his pension if he earned it by paying his contributions and his past work? Why do we categorize people as ordinary workers, entrepreneurs, these, those, third, doctors, professors, who can still have a full pension and continue their work through the copyright contract, but they probably had better wages than those paid by craftsmen or independent entrepreneurs? Of course, there are also the maggots. The employees can also be fools when they get full pay, but they get curves, as we call it, and they don't work in the workplace or they cancel their assignments. That is why it bothers me very much if we categorize independent entrepreneurs as non-digares who are to work and pay taxes and work extra, and those poor people who worked hard are entitled to everything. Of course, those who worked must be paid fairly and responsibly. I am against all the bad practices that occur in different professions and different places. By being an independent entrepreneur and hiring others — as well as by paying them into all the state treasury or all the cash registers in which contributions and taxes are paid. If someone closes his business because he thinks it's stupid that he's been working for 40 years, has a full-time job, can't receive a full pension, he'll close the company, he can close some jobs, and the state treasury is also further damaged for all the contributions, taxes, and he might still have more unemployed, and he'll have to pay you. Therefore, let us not make such differences between one, another, and another, because we all want the best for this country and these citizens and we cannot categorize them to be such and different – one is only fair and the other is just ugly because they work and they want to continue working and being paid. That's unacceptable. Speaking of precisely these damages for injuries at work, we do not advocate lowering safety standards at work. Absolutely not. Absolutely not. Every employer has to do what the law says he has to do. But we know there's been an accident. It was just today that I found out about the death of my neighbor, a working farmer, and that happened to him. And we often hear it when entrepreneurs say, “I’m afraid to hire people, because – what if something happens?” Do you think that's what they want on purpose? Of course they are, but they're the maggots. Let them be punished differently, controlled. Let's get those mistakes over with. But the accident never rests. And we're talking about cases like this. Since they cannot be protected for such cases, they are already paying for the injury fund at work. It is simply not fair for a person to be at the expense of his household, with all his belongings because he will have to pay compensations that are not limited upwards. But he can't protect himself for that. Do we afford it to people to get into this kind of trouble? No, no, no. Why are we proposing this law for the fourth time? Because we are facing these problems, people are telling us about these problems because we are Members here to help with things that are hurting people who are unjust. I am pleased that some, although I have heard many times in previous readings, “yes, because you are proposing the right things, but we will do better”. We still have very little time in this mandate to deal with this better. Let's settle it now, because it's about specific people and specific problems. So I will be very happy if the marriage goes on in the first reading and then we can see together what else is missing, what is better, and that we all have in mind that we are working for the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u125	Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Andrej Cuz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u126	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Yes, it is true, as many of us have said before, and even now, colleague Ljudmila Novak, for the fourth time in this appreciation of the National Assembly, we are discussing proposals from New Slovenia that touch on the relationship between employers and workers. Although I do not agree with their thesis that it is totally irrelevant whether an individual is an employee or an employer, I think that some differences are nevertheless, it is also appropriate legislation, but whatever. This time, we are considering a proposal for a law that provides for a solution to change the understanding of the employer's liability when there is damage to the worker at work due to non-compliance with safety and health at work, so that this compensation would only be liable when the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence. If we are talking about intention, of course, I can agree with this, but I cannot agree that this word is negligence, or that it is large, smaller, that we are stretching this word or that concept like a rubber endlessly into space. I think the bond law on this is very clear. This requirement of the injury causer to demonstrate that, in providing the work process, he acted with care and with all responsibility, namely, the institution, in one way or another, individually, individually identifies what the actual situation is and what the circumstances of the injurious event itself were. This is followed by a finding of actual guilt whether it is on the employee’s side or on the employer’s side. So I think that breaches of the safety and health rules simply cannot be tolerated. In order not to make a misunderstanding, I do not find it annoying that a certain political option, as I have already seen in the debate at the previous plenary session, when we actually have the same proposal, if I may say so, dealt with it, is somehow legally opening up this issue in the National Assembly and also presenting its programme, its views on the subject. Of course, I have no problem with that. It is true, however, that in the wake of the mass of media releases that we are witnessing in the field of labour law violations, such initiatives in the eyes of many appear unseemly. We have to agree on that. So that the solutions offered in New Slovenia in this regard are somehow contrary to the concept of the Modern Centre's policy and therefore we oppose them. As regards dual status, this issue is currently being addressed by the Constitutional Court, which has not yet definitively decided what it thinks, so any change in legislation at this time is inappropriate. But I can tell you what I think. The incentive to talk about this is certainly reasonable, but it does raise a number of questions, which raises the very concept of pension insurance, as we understand it. The very concept of retirement or retirement is understood as some systematic, solidarity-based way of saving for old age, for the time when an individual is unable to work, or we understand this as an item of slightly more specific savings, which is then linked to the years completed and then, on the basis of different criteria, each individual decides when and how these rights will then be cashed out later. As it is said, this certainly depends on some social consensus, some social consensus. If even after the Constitutional Court's decision on this issue is opened at social level, I personally do not want this concept to go in the direction of some complete individualisation of the account of any individual who has paid contributions, because it seems to me that they could then be wiped out very quickly in the future, as far as solidarity is concerned. The other thing is that if this occurs after the decision of the Constitutional Court, if the decision is to be the same as it would be, then the double status should pass the test of equality before the law. Because I do not understand why it would apply only to espas, why it could not then apply to all other employees, even in the final stage for public servants. As it is said, these are concerns about the subject already dealt with by the Constitutional Court. Now, as far as the acquisition is concerned, it should be pointed out here that at the latest amendment we have certainly opened the door to other beneficiaries who are certainly demanding the elimination of so-called injustices or who themselves see them as criminal. This has already been pointed out by our MEPs and members of the opposition, including Levice, in the last debate of the PIZ amendment, so I think it is right that this gap is somehow eliminated, possibly even upgraded, and that there is a possible wider understanding of the crowd, which we see as a vulnerable group. I hope, I believe, that on the committee itself, if today's marriage goes forward to the second reading, that there will be a solution, perhaps even a deadline offered by the Ministry, that we will know these stories, which we are actually witnessing in the face of the various pension reforms and the anomalies that occurred at that time, in the final stage, we will also be able to make a point. As it is said, for this sole reason, I will vote that the amendment of the law is appropriate for further consideration. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u127	The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u128	I am grateful to Ambassador Tabakovic for the correct debate and that he will allow this law to continue the way to the second reading. Nevertheless, I think that certain things need to be further discussed because things do not appear to be what you think they are in your debates. First of all, on this proposal, in order to establish a predictable business framework. You said that, given what is happening outside of this house in Slovenia, this proposal may even be inappropriate. Those were your words. From this debate you can understand – whether you are doing this on purpose or not, I do not know – that you are trying to create a picture, the impression that New Slovenia supports the bastards, those who exploit workers. That's not true, that's far from it. We do not lower safety standards at work and we do not untie employers for the costs of treating their workers. If we are honest in the debates, then it must be said that the New Slovenia proposal clearly states when it comes to conspiring – and these numerous media stories that appeared on television, in newspapers, were pretentious acts, because employers deliberately, on purpose, were exploiting the work because it was practically modern slavery, they did not meet all the safety standards at work – we do not have any mercy in New Slovenia to such employers, and it is right to cover all the costs of treatment. Besides these thugs, which we do not support, there are honest working people who try again every day to give people bread to give them their wages. And these people may also have some mistake in not ensuring adequate safety at work. And now we're not lowering these standards. So the fundamental question that we need to discuss in the second reading is how much we are prepared to punish employers who have not provided adequate working conditions. This is a fundamental question. Our proposal is to limit this penalty to 15,000 euros. Your proposal or your debate is that this punishment is practically unlimited. What we would like to achieve in Novi Slovenija is at least some serious debate to tell us what this punishment is that these employers deserve. I believe that in the United Left they will propose that this punishment should be EUR 100,000 or even more, it is said that the company can just close. But all those who have a sense of the economy, of creating appropriate business environments, is this a debate in place – what punishment should this be? If you think EUR 15 000 is too low in the SMC, tell us what you think is appropriate. Because the point of setting a limit is simply that this responsibility can be protected. If you say 50,000 euros, this punishment is still better for me than it is today when it is unlimited. But these things need to be talked about. About this double status. You said an equality test. Unfortunately, citizens today are not equal because a craftsman who has a shoemaker or a seamstress and who will have a poor pension and if he wants to get a full pension, he cannot continue this activity. While certain professions, such as doctors, professors, can continue to do these things with copyright contracts, as this is possible with copyright contracts, and get a full pension. It is said that, in the technical sense of these groups of people, they are not equal. And what we want is that someone who has fulfilled the conditions for retirement to get that pension. I think, Mr Tabakovic, that there is a difference between the public and the real sector. The public sector, in which we, who receive our wages, are taxed by the state. The real sector, however, is creating this value, this profit, this income itself on the market. And that's the essential difference. That is why I have no problem that people who work and create some value on the market also work if they want to, and if they can, when they meet the conditions for retirement. But I'm not in favour of public servants doing this. And here is the essential difference that needs to be taken into account. The law also states that the same circumstances must be treated in the same way and in different circumstances. We will most likely be able to take a second look at these things. Once again, I feel progress in this respect, but now there is a somewhat more realistic debate and not such a general accusation. The things we're proposing, you're saying I don't know how many times. Yeah, I mean, if we didn't hear these calls all the time from the field between the people we're walking around, then I'm sure we wouldn't be proposing these things. But I think, you know what, SD Bachič was in a group where entrepreneurs warned that it was really outrageous that these regressive claims were so high that they could sink the company, and she said that this should be arranged. Today, he reads this position here as a speaker, and it is different. What should a person think?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u129	Replica, Mr. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I'm going to replicate very briefly. I personally agree, unlike you, that the economy will contribute very much to the country, but we cannot say that the public sector may not have any other added value that our society certainly needs. As far as the limitation of compensation is concerned. I am not an individual or a person who could, because of non-compliance with the bond code, have a work accident, limit the cost of treatment. How do we know what kind of accident will happen? How can we say, limit it to 50,000? Life can be very different. And I think that if the employer, as you say yourself, is not a bastard, it is certainly very good to make sure that the accident does not happen, and that he will also very correctly respect the bond code, because these standards are there for some purpose. So, I'm sorry, I can't agree with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u131	Representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u132	With regard to these remarks, Member Tabakovic, we know. The Chamber of Commerce presented a concrete case from the constituency of Jan Škobernet, an SD Member, when the company received a request for reimbursement of the costs of treatment of EUR 70 000 due to the accident of a worker from the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. This was not a barabbas company, it was not a company that did not pay its employees contributions, it was not a company that did not provide security for its workers, but it was probably a typical Slovenian company that could happen to them in certain circumstances that they had missed something to make a mistake so that they did not provide all the relevant safety standards. And we don't say here that these responsibilities excuse them. All we are talking about here is agreeing on some maximum limit that needs to be set so that this responsibility can be secured. Where do you put that limit? Someone can pay 15,000 euros for treatment, one can also pay 100, 150. But there is also some proportionality to be taken into account here. Because of a mistake, it is not only whether this treatment will be paid, but also how many jobs will be lost. If we charge a small company the cost of the treatment of 100 000 euros, this company will fail and bring about five or ten more jobs. All these jobs are paid into the pension and health allowance. That's what this is about. I think it is justified to discuss these restrictions because employers pay a special share every month in salaries when we pay for pension, health allowance and injury at work. The fact is that 70 million euro is collected from this title. Our point is to set limits, to this limit employers pay for themselves, and over this limit this solidarity is turned on and is paid from the money we all pay for our salaries. It is a purely normal Western European concept. If we talk clearly about these things, then these things are clear. But if we bring together a variety of ideological covers, then the stories can be fantastic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u133	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz and Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u134	First of all, I would like to say or answer the question of why we did it again, and this is the fourth time that we have put the law into consideration. And I'm gonna say with a chance or whatever I can say to that. In one parish, the priest was constantly warned that he had the same sermons each week. And you know what he said? Have you done everything I had to do? That's the same thing. Why did we reinvest? Because things aren't over. Because you either don't hear things or you don't actually hear them because of what greed you don't undo. However, I should like to say that Mr Pahor, President of the State at Brdo, this year when the announcement of the craftsman and entrepreneur in 2017 was made, this is exactly what we are investing today, what needs to be fixed in the law and what is what weighs the craftsmen and entrepreneurs. And these are regressive claims or damages for work injury, double pensioners' status. But things don't move. And I was there, and there were MPs from SMC, Mr Ranc, Mr Škodnik, there was Mrs Bratuškova, even Mr Trček and other Members of Parliament, perhaps, but we drove there more or less together. We've all heard the same thing. Interesting. In the car, we all agreed on what needed to be done to move things forward. We all understood the aspirations of why craftsmen and entrepreneurs want to settle this matter. But when we get to the parliamentary bench, things happen again for the same reasons and with the same fears. I can tell you that I've never met any employers, let this be an entrepreneur, let this be a craftsman who would be happy to have a hospital worker for injury. I've never met him before. Each worker is very important with his/her knowledge in each work process with each employer. It seems to me, however, that what we have been called to this National Assembly is a state that is up to all and fair to all and has the same criteria. Not to anyone because he has espa because he's an independent entrepreneur, he doesn't give himself the chance to be insured for damages. I think we are here to put an end to this and to do things in such a way that they can benefit from insurance products, that they can be equivalent, that we can say that we have made a country fair to all those almost 60,000 independent entrepreneurs and craftsmen. The state must be just for everyone to feel that they are equal. That's why we've been proposing for the fourth time. I am glad that I have seen that we should go through the laws in the first reading, so that, of course, they will be complemented by your help, but I hope that we will pursue the same goal, the goal that we will be able to keep people working as long as possible. This is a resolution on long-lived society. It speaks of the need to ensure all standards, all the criteria for people to remain active as long as possible. We, with double pensioner status, do exactly the opposite. If we want the need for labour to be assured, and if we want the cashiers to be so medically, pensionally and also tax-filled, then we have to make the conditions for people to work. You know what they say? Free cats don't even fuck around. Yeah, that's right. Everyone has to have some of it to survive and have some of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u135	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Prepare Mrs Jelka Godec and Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u136	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. Improving the business environment is a story that is never finished, especially for us legislators. We are the ones who have scissors and linen in our hands, and we are the ones who can make Slovenia business, businesses, craftsmen, espionage or foreign investors friendly or not. In the past, we have seen how the government has also had a great deal of attention to some major investors who wanted to come into the country and invest here. In New Slovenia we also have small craftsmen, family companies that are really the same added value. If anything, then Slovenia can be an opportunity for family companies and for their development. We now have good, positive economic indicators. The added value created by family companies, craftsmen, is very high today. But what did we do during the mandate to maintain this added value even during the time of the crisis, which, as we can also monitor foreign media, is at the door? In Novi Slovenija we propose this law, which contains three key segments. But for the introduction, this ideological debate, on the one hand the economy, on the other hand the public sector. Look, no one has the right to compare honest entrepreneurs and craftsmen with ultra-capitalists, neo-liberals, those who exploit workers and look only for their own capital and profits. No, no, no. Being an entrepreneur today, especially an entrepreneur who employs people, is an extremely noble act. And also a very risky act, but at the same time very noble. You're not just worried about yourself, you're worried about society, you're worried about the environment. If you have employees, you take care of family employees, you pay contributions, and you take care of the entire public administration. To say what was before – chicken or egg, what is more important – the economic, real sector or the public sector See, without a well-functioning economy, our salaries in the public sector will also not be what the public sector would want today. [[…]] For this reason, the first condition is to enable a positive business environment. Double status first. What does New Slovenia propose? We propose only and only more justice in this area, that anyone who wants to work has the opportunity to work. Now I ask you, is the pension right from work? So someone worked for 40 years, paid his contributions honestly, and earned a full pension — yes or no? You will all answer me: “Yes, he deserves it.” What's wrong now? That those who want to work and pay extra in our retirement allowance may not receive a full pension. Let's say that it's possible abroad, and we're afraid to have a working population, more working people, and more money in a pension box. This is particularly important because we allow those who have employees to continue their work. More money in the cash register, as well as the continuation of entrepreneurship, so that entrepreneurs don't have to shut down businesses, fire workers. These entrepreneurs didn't deserve it either. I don't understand the state that says that someone who wants to continue working is not a right. However, it is our duty as legislator to satisfy this element of justice against other professions such as professors, doctors, and so on, who receive a full pension and can work. If there is any righteousness in us, then it is our job to let the law go into further procedure and to accept it definitively. The consequences, as I have already said, may be the closure of businesses. And that's exactly what happened, more than a thousand companies closed down. This must no longer happen in the future. The second thing we propose is a second solution to the regression claims. In our law, we have in mind, in particular, companies which can be completely destroyed by a slightly higher regression claim. When more than ten thousand euros are fined at this address, when we do not have insurance companies on the other hand, because this restriction is not set up, family tragedies may occur, and the whole tradition of entrepreneurship is suddenly interrupted. Last but not least, the workers are fired. We are proposing only a better regulation of this area, so that insurance companies that are not now prepared to protect this damage due to injury at work will enter this market. It is only our proposal, our support for entrepreneurship to improve the business environment. We agree that it is necessary to strengthen the inspection if there is an abuse in some companies, but we are talking about a whole other matter, a whole other story – the inspectorate. And if abuse is taking place, let the inspection be carried out there and punish those who abuse this area, but let those honest employers, honest entrepreneurs, craftsmen, do their job to ensure that they are able to do well. Look, with us, the employer is almost responsible for any, even minor, injury if the worker slips through the meadow in the factory. And there have been cases like this before. But no one asks, on the other hand, how else can this damage that has occurred be repaid. And it is not fair to craftsmen and entrepreneurs who collect €80 million of money from this title on an annual basis, and ultimately they do not have the opportunity to recover these costs from this money. Our law, our measures are only designed to satisfy the elements of justice and to make this country a more positive business environment for the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u137	I'm going to read two more interviewers. As the first to receive the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat and as the second or last of Dr. Mitja Horvat. Please, Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to remind you that in the Republic of Slovenia, however, we only have to adopt some European standards and respect the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, because otherwise we will be lagging behind. We know Article 82 of the Constitution. Someone has informed us that we are representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. No, we didn't. But here we are representatives of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, if you will, of the enterprise sector. Under Article 82 of the Constitution, we are Members of all the people, including small entrepreneurs, who form the backbone of the Slovenian economy. We were all at the trade hall and at the international trade fair and took home the requirements of Slovenian crafts and entrepreneurship 2017, an old story. As a first request, the tradesmen put before us legislators a different arrangement for the compensation of employers in the event of an accident at work. That's about what we're talking about today. Let's solve this, let's solve this! Maybe now that we're at the end of the term, it's an opportunity. Mind your own business!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u139	Dr. Mitja Horvat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Chairman for the floor. I've got a tiny reaction to make, reverend mag. Tonin, on what you said as soon as the positions were presented. Failure to oppose the law does not mean much support for the law. So I will be happy if you ever actively and effectively support any suggestions that you consider to be good. I'm sure it's not an ideological issue on our part, but it's a status order. If we have been in the hearing, which has been mentioned several times today, in October of the first amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in one situation where we have pointed out that there are two fundamental objectives. On the one hand, for the correction or elimination of certain injustices for which there was no problem and, on the other hand, there was agreement in the National Assembly. We have, however, been somewhat different in our views on the other objective, where there was another issue, from the labour law, where we had quite a lively and turbulent debate. I'm not going to renew it today, I just wanted to warn you, because today we can see that we have three goals that we would like to meet at the same time. On the basis of this debate that we have had today and the arguments that you have cited, I will consider them and I will take the time to consider them, because a little wider picture is needed, regardless of political affiliation, and this is certainly not an ideological question, but simply a question of what is involved and perhaps a little thought, because it has also been expressed specifically what is in the White Paper. It is, of course, the questions of an ageing society, how we will respond to the challenges that we are currently facing in our society. And it is not necessary, but I am prepared to continue, in particular, on the working body to think and argue in this direction, whether this addresses the same problem, the same challenge, which is basically answered by the White Paper. We will certainly have to deal with this challenge, as we have already done in the next mandate. And it's not nearly a simple question. Of course, I am happy for everyone who is willing to continue to work after he has fulfilled the conditions for retirement. However, I am somewhat reserved for the arguments that you have cited in your Group of Members in this regard and I would like to point out that people are something different in this age when they also fill the conditions for retirement. If I'm allowed, I hope you won't mind me, in this part, I would say that I understand your efforts to make pension and disability insurance, which we have today on the basis of solidarity, reciprocity established in our system, in our society, I understand this shift or thinking about having the principle of insurance for that basic insurance. I believe that this is still worth discussing and also finding out whether there is a consensus in society that we are going from an existing system to an insurance principle where all your arguments would be maintained. So I don't really object to them, I'm just wondering if in our space, in our system, we're ready for it. With regard to the second fundamental objective pursued by this proposal, I wonder whether it is really necessary to regulate this through the rules of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, or whether it might be appropriate to consider considering this issue in any other area. I must also say that I do not see directly for much of what you have said in your debate today, whether it really relates to the solution, as you also propose by the law on pension and disability insurance. In this work, I think there are other ways that nothing is closed. The principle of insurance, which you are pursuing in the first objective, I believe is absolutely useful and possible in the second objective, so I believe that you can understand that it is not ideological or any other opposition, but simply to think about whether and how, what questions to settle and whether these issues are really addressed in this law, which you are proposing to change. Therefore, you will be able to understand that we insist on the positions that have been presented so far. Other representatives of coalition parties are also with the same arguments, i.e. that they are the same and similar thoughts that have already been rejected, that we have significantly more arguments in this regard than for the third objective pursued by the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance. I will also remind you here that I have taken about half an hour to deal with previous changes and to supplement the law on pension and disability insurance, so I would not repeat this here. But I would warn you, and this is something that I can honestly tell you in advance, with this injustice that you are warning and that you are proposing, and it was quite broad, which gave you little wings to try, or you can go a little further. So in this part, let us understand that in this part it is a matter of considering that a number of interesting questions, and in particular this third objective, which you are pursuing, is very interesting for me personally and for the Group of the Modern Centre Party. However, it is that change that I have also pointed out to previous proponents and I do not see it here, at least not so explicitly when we thought about the amendments in October and November, and when representatives of both the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and also the Director of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance explained that it was a small group of people, that it was not a major consequence and that important injustices were being addressed. As you know, our Group also supported these changes, so we consider it right if we continue in the same style. If we have begun to correct the injustices of a smaller scale, it is only right that we continue this process. Here I call on you if you can understand and approach to agree together and find solutions for the most vulnerable groups of people. Here you will have to forgive me, here I will not deal with the people they have, and I also respect them, this will and the ability to be entrepreneurs themselves, to hire others. As you know, I don't have any problems. But if you'll excuse me, and if I can appeal to you a little bit, you can also think in the direction of supporting some solutions that will relate to particularly vulnerable groups of people. I'll be with them very soon. Throughout my mandate, I listen and when I read the data provided by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the question is that we are at the top of the ranking between European countries with long-term unemployed people over 55 years of age. In particular, I wonder, and here I will also appeal to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to Consider this issue once again, even though today we have heard the distinguished Secretary of State who opposes this proposal, and that we are all thinking together about what is the case with those cases of excellence that we have already warned about in the debate of October and November and in the adoption of the new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance-2. These are people who did not necessarily meet the conditions laid down during the transitional period. So, I'm glad you opened 394. My call or, if I say otherwise, I would like to invite you to consider whether we have not seen some cases in that debate where some particularly vulnerable people have had an extreme increase in the time when they can retire. It is about people, and I will not now be able to hold a shorter debate in this day, but still with slightly more calm tone, without any major opposition, without an ideological debate, whether we have not found the disabled, the disabled, the other and the third categories, who have tried their best. Just as you were today talking about people who are working honestly, who are trying to make themselves useful in this society, they may have been employed during that very cheaply administered transition period. They weren't at the employment office, they weren't exercising any other rights, they were just trying and working. And because I invite you to think about it and to look at it, of course I will be very pleased if the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same possibilities as data for this particularly vulnerable group of people are constructively involved. I'll be honest with you that some of you have turned to me. I have some communication, including some of the members of the Modern Centre's Group of the Parties, who have taken them in to talk to us about the situation they are in. She's not single, they're quite different situations. And what I'm pledging here is that for those who have suffered the negative consequences because they did not follow the laws and have therefore extended their retirement time, my only purpose today was because we are in the general debate to invite you all together to consider taking a little look at the numbers, a little look at these different situations that we were talking about. Some have found that up to — an extreme case — they have a 12 - year extension in which they can retire. I believe that's not much. I believe that when we put on the technique pluses and minuses, when we look on one side at the financial implications that we will most likely be, this is my guess on the data that we are available in accordance with all the elements that I take into account in this proposal, and I predict that we will also go through our parliamentary group in the proposal for an open article amendment if it is necessary to look at the situation realistically and that we have eyes to see that it is people who are a particularly vulnerable group. Finally, I do not want to today, because today we have been a little bit more on the hard arguments, the arguments of the modern world, entrepreneurship and the dangers to entrepreneurs, or if the compensations they have to pay are too high and so on. I respect and have no difficulty in looking at these interests as well and seeing whether and what solutions we can take. That is why, of course, I also welcome your invitation. If 15,000 is too small, we can talk about another number. The issues after the general debate are open, they must remain open and I believe that in some constructive and calm dialogue we can come up with the best solutions, saying that we believe that it is not necessarily through the law on pension and disability insurance. But I'm not closing the door, I'm leaving the debate open, I wouldn't want to lock it with anything. But on the other hand, let us look at people who, I firmly believe, are not guilty of being in a special group, they have been identified, and I know at least a little of these procedures, and all those who know the procedures for finding disability in the second and third categories, you know what these procedures are, under what conditions, how these people, who are particularly vulnerable and who need special treatment and our understanding, reciprocity, respect and, as I mentioned at the end, also solidarity, compassion. So much at this point, and I hope you can understand. It is not about putting support in our pocket for the bill, but we have also said where and how open we are in the debate and what we expect. We don't need it or we don't want it, we're gonna reject any obvious evidence if anyone wants to tell us that we were doing something with the shit in our pocket. We are again and again in the part where I reacted, when I said maybe you got your wings small, you flew a little bit, and you wanted to achieve more than necessary or possibly in this general debate today in the general debate. At the beginning of the mandate, the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre said that it wanted to participate in the National Assembly and we are doing so to the best possible extent. Regardless of whether good suggestions come from any direction, we are happy to listen, cooperate, and work together to find the best possible solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u141	Representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u142	I listened quite well to the debate, and I am aware that it was not universal support for this law, but individual solutions. But you know the procedure yourself, and you know that if you kill this law today, there will be no debate and the process will be closed. If you release it into another treatment, the options are open. There's only one solution out of three that you can vote on, two, three, any way you want. In short, everything is still possible to change and assign. That seems to me to be an essential point, which has not been the practice of the past. When you said that SMC has always been prepared to participate In the beginning of the mandate yes, in the meantime, the readiness is now a little bit higher, which is a good thing. [[…]] See, we too are more than interested in correcting injustices to the widest circle and to take another step forward in what we have proposed. I agree with that, and this is a matter for second reading. With regard to the other two solutions, I will, as well as you understand me, I will continue to present these arguments, because I think there are arguments on our side that many people do not want to understand. I believe you think otherwise. But at least today, these regression claims have moved forward in the sense that the debate has focused more on how high we set them, not that it was a general slapping, that it was to eliminate safety standards at work. That's a step forward. We'll see how things develop.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u143	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which they will get the word if they wish, once again the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government. Representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u144	At the conclusion of the debate, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the correct debate that this time has passed in such calm tone and has mainly touched on concrete facts. We are grateful to all those who have foretold today that you will support this marriage so that it can continue its course. But even today, I predict that we are also willing to talk to those who have been a little shaken today, and you have said that you support individual solutions, but that despite all the law you will not support, if you do find the smallest common denominator to move things forward. Remember that we no longer have much time, that this mandate will virtually end in April, and that we are already relatively in a hurry, as far as the parliamentary procedure is concerned. We'll make every effort. Apparently, there's a lot of chance the part that talks about people who are even after 31. 12. 2012 voluntarily paid to the pension fund, at least after the discussion it was understood that this part of the law had the greatest support. However, we will make every effort to make matters more clear and transparent in these regressive claims or in developing a more predictable business framework. This number 15 thousand was taken from car stories, from car damages, and I said it was a matter of debate. It can also rise, and it is essential to set some limits so that these dangers and compensation requirements can be protected. In the case of dual status, I also hope that there will be some other arguments that we will take a step forward here as well. Thank you very much today, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u145	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, which is half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This also interrupts the 9th item of the agenda. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is a second defence of the bill on payment services, electronic money publishing services and payment systems. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag. Sasha the Badger.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u146	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The National Assembly is discussing today the Proposal for a Law on payment services, electronic money services and payment systems, which was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. The main purpose of the bill is to transpose the Payment Services Directive into Slovenian law in the internal market. That Directive is subject to the principle of full harmonisation, which means that Member States must not lay down additional or other requirements concerning the content covered by the Directive. The bill will replace the current law on payment services and systems. The basic structure and content of the Law on Payment Services and Systems has also been preserved in the proposal for a new law, which also covers certain new areas. The proposal also complements or amends the provisions of the current law, both in the light of the transposition of the provisions of the earlier directive and in the parts where this has proved necessary in the implementation of the law. The main amendment to the bill is related to the introduction of the Payment Services Directive in the internal market, extending activities considered to be payment services. Thus, two new forms are added to the payment services that are implemented via the Internet, namely payment and account information services. Payment allocation services enable payment in the context of e-commerce by establishing a software link between the trader's website and the payment service provider's online banking platform, which manages the payer's payment account. In recent years, technological developments have also created a range of complementary services, such as account information services. These services provide payment service users with online information in aggregate form on one or more payment accounts held by one or more other payment service providers and made available through the payment service provider’s online interfaces, which manages the accounts. From the point of view of the relationship between the user and the payment service provider, the draft law sets out some additional information to be covered by the framework contract for the provision of payment services. As regards the user’s termination of the framework contract, however, it provides that the payment service provider shall not charge the user specific compensation for the cancellation of the contract if the administrator terminates the framework contract after the expiry of six months of the conclusion and not more after the expiry of twelve months as was the case in the current law. The bill also provides that, in the case of the user's liability for unauthorised payment transactions, the user shall bear a loss of up to EUR 50 if the payment transaction was carried out as a result of the use of the stolen or lost payment instrument or the misuse of the payment instrument. According to the current regulation, the user covers up to EUR 150. The news is also that payment service providers must establish and apply appropriate and effective procedures to address complaints by payment service users, including, inter alia, a request to respond to the complaint within 15 working days of receipt. The proposal also allows interested parties, including consumer associations, to lodge a complaint with Banka Slovenije concerning alleged violations of this law by payment service providers. Dear Members and Members! The Government proposes that the National Assembly adopt the proposed text of the Law on Payment Services, Electronic Money and Payment Systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the Committee's reports, I give the floor to Vice-President Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Report on the Proposal for a Law on payment services, electronic money services and payment systems. At its 46th meeting, on 11 January 2018, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law on payment services, electronic money services and payment systems submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law to the individual articles have been tabled by the parliamentary groups of the coalition. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service and the Bank of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and purpose of the bill and presented the main solutions relating mainly to the transposition of the directive, to the replacement of the law already adopted, while at the same time the proposal of the law also regulates new areas and extends the activities considered to be payment services. With regard to the comments made in the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that some of the comments were taken into account by the amendments tabled and pointed out the brief substantive explanations of individual amendments. It also drew attention to the lack of uniformity of expression and the lack of follow-up to the directive being transposed. It also made comments on the individual articles. In its opening remarks, the representative of the State Council presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and said that the State Council supported the proposal of the law. The debate drew attention to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the expression and compatibility of the draft law with the Internal Market Directive, highlighted the amount of the establishment capital and mentioned the role of the Bank of Slovenia as a criminal authority and its involvement in the preparation of the bill. A question was also raised regarding the arrangements for fiduciary accounts and the definitions of individual categories such as electric money, cryptocurrency and Bitcoin and the possibility of abuse, the issue of control over the currencies and the issue of exceptions. It was said that the bill has positive effects as it reduces costs and prices for payment service users. During the discussion, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance and the representative of Banka Slovenije answered the questions raised and provided further clarifications. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and adopted them together with the amendments proposed. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, and a very nice greeting. In view of the confusion on the committee for the last time, I will start by telling citizens who are monitoring us that the law we are considering is not the cryptocurrency, but the electronic money we are talking about is credit cards, various mobile payment devices such as Money and payment devices on the Internet, such as PayPal. The law contains some positive solutions for consumers, but unfortunately it is somewhat inconsistent and, at the same time, consumer rights also extend market liberalisation and offers some benefits to multinationals, such as the already mentioned PayPall. In Levica, we agree with those measures that increase the safety of consumers who buy online, pay with their mobile phone and the like. We agree with the solution that the card holder or other means of payment stolen and purchased by the card does not cover the entire cost of abuse, but up to EUR 50. We also agree that the company that introduces payment services must allow for a fair hearing of complaints. It is equally important that the consumer who has been injured or the consumer association can complain directly to the Bank of Slovenia. It is also welcome to prohibit the charging of card fees, and the problem is that some multinationals, such as PayPall, will still be charging commissions despite this law. That's one of the reasons why I say this marriage is inconsistent. Finally, I must draw attention to the article on fiduciary accounts, i.e. the accounts that someone in his own name is keeping for another person or company. Fiducia accounts are a species that must certainly be restricted because they are often followed by real owners for such or different purposes. For example, it is known that various foreign funds hide Petrol's shares in the fiduciary accounts of foreign banks. In such cases it is absolutely necessary to prohibit this. In principle, we agree that only lawyers or notaries can manage fiduciary or custodian payment accounts. We note, however, that according to the current legislation certain labour organisations have fiduciary accounts, such as 21 open unions and 151 cooperatives. These accounts will mainly have to be closed within three years, so before I conclude my position, I call on those responsible to lead the procedures so that these organisations and cooperatives can function normally. On the basis of what we have said in the vote on this law, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Potočnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u152	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The main amendment introduced by the Proposal for a Law on payment services, services and the issuance of electronic money and payment services is the extension of activities considered to be payment services. Payment services shall cover activities that allow cash to be deposited in the payment account and all activities necessary to manage that account; activities that enable cash to be raised from the payment account and all activities necessary to manage that account; activities that enable payment transactions to be executed in the amount and well-being of the payment service inducer that manages the payment account; or other payment service provider. In addition, two new forms have been added to payment services, namely payment and account information services. The payment order service is a payment order service at the request of the payment service user in respect of the payment account opened with another payment service provider. However, the account information service is an internal service to provide consolidated information in one payment account or multiple payment accounts held by the payment service user in another payment service provider or in more than one payment service provider. The proposal aims to enable consumers and traders to fully benefit from the internal market in payment services compared to the applicable law, in particular in the area of e-commerce. In order to achieve this objective and to promote greater competition, efficiency and innovation in the field of electronic payments, the proposal provides legal clarity and a level playing field, which would result in a reduction of costs and prices for payment service users and greater choice and transparency in the services themselves, the promotion of innovative services and the provision of secure and transparent payment services. The proposal for a law will also affect payment service providers in the work where different or additional requirements are laid down and in particular affect payment destination service providers and account information providers. For all of this, the SMC Group will support the proposal for a bill on payment services, electronic money services and payment systems.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u154	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The Law on payment services and electronic money and payment systems provides for the transposition of the European Directive into national law. In addition to the objectives related to the transposition of the Directive of the European Union, the proposal for a law also eliminates some other shortcomings of the existing law in force, which have been demonstrated in its implementation in practice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the changes and additions to this law are in a positive direction; this is about the transposition of the European directive, so we will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! In the Desus Group, we will unanimously support the bill. This transposes into Slovenian legislation the European Directive on payment services in the internal market, which is subject to the principle of full harmonisation, which means that Member States must not change the content regulated by the Directive. It will also replace the current law on payment services and systems. Activities considered to be payment services, including additionally two new forms implemented via the Internet, such as payment service assignment and account information services, are expanding. Payment allocation services enable payment in the context of e-commerce by establishing a software link between the trader's website and the payment service provider's online banking platform, which manages the payer's payment account. In addition, it lays down certain additional information to be covered by the framework contract for the provision of payment services. In addition, the payment service provider will not be able to charge the user specific compensation for the cancellation of the contract if the user cancels the framework contract after the expiry of six months from the conclusion of the contract and not within twelve months from now. In the case of the user's liability for unauthorised payment transactions, the user will cover a loss of up to EUR 50 if the payment transaction was carried out as a result of the use of the stolen or lost payment instrument or the misuse of the payment instrument. Up to 150 euros have been covered so far. The opening of fiduciary accounts will be allowed only to those for whom there is a broader interest which excuses an open fiduciary account on their behalf. In the Desus Group we support this because fiduciary accounts all too often distort the real picture of the property of persons. Finally, let me point out that in the Desus Group we support the proposed ban on charging fees on card payments in almost all transactions. For all the reasons listed above, we will support the proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on payment services, electronic money services and payment systems brings a number of changes to the Slovenian legal order. Some changes are considered welcome, such as the provision that the payment service provider should make it possible for the recipient to have cash in his payment account as soon as the amount of the payment transaction has been granted, as well as the provision that the payment service provider must ensure, free of charge, that the user informs him of any loss, theft or abuse at any time. However, we are considering the bill right during the period of expansion of the so-called cryptocurrency. Technology in electronic money and payment is developing almost at light speed. Different forms of electronic banking and electronic payment are already a fact. As usual, innovation, expertise and the market are two steps ahead of the legislator. In accordance with the proposal of this law only banks, electronic money companies, discounted electronic money companies, Banka Slovenije and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments can operate electronic money. The area of electronic banking and electronic commerce is very diversified and it is therefore important how the law defines individual concepts. The bill defined electronic money as a stored monetary value in the form of an electronic money holder’s claim to an electronic money issuer issued by an electronic money issuer on the basis of the receipt of funds for the purpose of payment transactions and accepted as a payment instrument by a non-electronic money issuer. The holder of electronic money may at any time require the issuer of electronic money to cash in the equivalent of the electronic money issued that is not spent. It could be found that this definition is very general and can cover a very broad area of electronic payment, including cryptocurrency. On the other hand, the government says the cryptocurrency in this definition is not covered. We are afraid that there might be a lot of confusion and confusion in this area. The world's moving on. In New Slovenia, we would like to see that the legislator, with real developments in technology and the market, would not always be lagging behind two or even three steps. It is also interesting to see the proposed regulation regulating electronic money companies. These companies must be authorised by the Bank of Slovenia to manage the electronic money issue service. When a legal person applies for a permit from the Bank of Slovenia, the capital must be at least EUR 350 000. In this regard, in connection with the constitutional right to a free economic initiative, we are asked why the Government is proposing exactly this height. This amount of institutional capital seems to us to be relatively high or too high. Because of the many indiscretions of this bill in the New Slovenia Group, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Vice President Secretary of State! [[..]] The Law on Payment Services for the issuance of electronic money and payment systems will fully replace the applicable Law on Payment Services and Systems. The law brings the European Directive into Slovenia's legal order and ensures cooperation between national markets and a level playing field for all payment service providers in the Union, which is a single internal market for payment services. It is no longer uncommon for citizens to have completely legal and transparent accounts with different payment service providers operating abroad. Such services are becoming indispensable. Not only for certain business sectors, but also for completely ordinary people and everyday activities. Therefore, an important part of the law sets out the rights and obligations of users and payment service providers and pays attention to improving consumer protection against fraud. It is also likely that the most important consequence of the adoption of this law will be that payment service providers, such as card intermediaries or online financial platforms, will no longer be able to charge fees to customers, which will, thank God, reduce their costs. At the same time, this proposal regulates other conditions for the provision of payment services and lays down conditions for entry into the market for payment service providers, including new forms of payment service providers. The conditions for the establishment, operation, control and termination of clearing companies are also laid down. We will support this proposal in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the amended draft law are not tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We will vote on the bill today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving to 14. On the day-to-day basis, it's on a defensive proposal for a declaration on the non-existence of a social property transfer to the state. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by Mr Janko Weber. With regard to this proposal for a declaration, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a declaration is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee of the Military of Shergan for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, once again! Report to the Proposal for a Declaration on the Non-existence of the Transition of Social Property to State. At its 46th meeting, on 11 January 2018, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a declaration on the non-existence of the transition of social property to the State, submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Janko Weber. In addition to the proposal for a declaration, the Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 22 December 2017, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 11 January 2018 and the reply to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service by the group of citizens with the supporters which the Committee received on the bench. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. At the meeting of the Committee, a proposaler, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service were present. The introductory supplementary explanation to the proposal for a declaration was made by Mr Janko Weber as the applicant. At the same time, he pointed out that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have no legally valid proof that citizens and citizens have in any way waived social property at the constitutional or international legal level. No referendum or other legal comparative consultation with citizens as owners was offered. Society is not a group of imaginary and unnamed persons, but we are citizens with names and surnames. So the owners are known from first to last. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the position of social property in the legal system in the decision-making process was also analysed by the Constitutional Court. The most determined position, which is also relevant to the content of the proposed declaration, was taken in Decision UI77/93 of 6 July 1995 at point 19 where the amendment XCX to the previous Constitution, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 7/91, which provided for the transformation of social property into public and other forms of property by law. In the current constitutional regulation, in which the amendments to the previous constitution no longer apply, the legislator had a constitutional basis for the adoption of the ZLPP in the first article of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, under which all legislation had to be aligned with the new constitution, i.e. also to regulate the way in which social property was discontinued or transformed into real property. The new constitution of the social property category is no longer known, so it also does not enjoy constitutional protection. During the transitional period until it is recast, it is protected by the previous legislation, as far as it is still in force, and by the new legislation governing its transformation and protection. Notwithstanding the way social property was created, it was the task of the legislator to transform social property into real property and to set criteria for the identification of known owners. In doing so, the legislator was bound by the Constitution, but the constitution of social property as such does not protect it. In addition to the constitutional case law, it is clear from the views of the legal theory that in the new legal and economic system, social property has been transformed and no longer exists. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the positions arising from the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitution, the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of Slovenia, the legal theory, the constitutional practice and the legislative procedures of the draft laws determining the ownership of social property should be taken into account when deciding on the appropriateness of the proposed declaration. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance shares the opinion with the Legislative and Legal Service and gives the opinion of the Government that the text and explanation of the proposed declaration are not legally justified and therefore opposes its adoption. The debate drew attention to the time-range of the content of this proposal for a declaration and to the impact of some pre-election activities, which is rejected by the applicant, since his initiative has been present since 2016, when he first drew attention to the content of the proposed act. Some members praised the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which is intended to be structured and well-structured. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, having concluded its discussion and having regard to the opinion of the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted that the proposal for a declaration on the non-existence of the transfer of social property to the State is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I give the text to the proposer of the proposal for a declaration to Janko Webr for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u164	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, with such a decision, prevents people from speaking in the National Assembly, the temple of democracy, about our common property, which has been created by generations and generations and is fundamental to our existence. I tabled a declaration because a group of citizens turned to me and I listened to them. I would also like to point out that the declaration has the support of 5,000 individual signatories and organisations that bring together 300,000 members. Here the question arises on what basis can the Committee prevent a people who, under Article 3 of the Constitution, have power not to speak about the fundamental issue of our existence in the temple of democracy. I quote part of article 3, paragraph 2, of the Constitution: “In Slovenia the people have power. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections.” It follows from this that the authorities and the state are citizens. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are only services to citizens. Your Honor! When we were elected by the people, we did not get their consent to maintain and destroy or resell their common property. We could only maintain social property in a symbolic sense to protect it. On the plebiscite, we decided to establish an independent and independent state in order to preserve our identity. We have not established our country so that a handful of political voters can sell out our common property. For this work we have never given them consent, not at the referendum or in any other form of clarification. By adopting the declaration as a declaration of fundamental importance to citizens and citizens, the National Assembly shall communicate to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, including to the Slovenian State Holding, including to the weak banks and other state institutions, that we have never been asked to sell citizens and citizens for this sale, and we have never agreed to sell out the second largest bank, New Credit Bank Maribor, which we have recapitalised with a five-time purchaser; we have never agreed to sell out the steel industry; we have not agreed to sell out the food processing industry, led by Zita; we have not agreed to sell out the central trading system; and to sell out a variety of other production companies that are the basis for jobs and the development of science and technology. And last but not least today, we are facing a literal attack on Luca Koper. By rejecting the decision of the Committee, it shall be possible for the President of the Republic of Slovenia to present his position on the non-existence of the transfer of social property to the state as a matter of fundamental importance for citizens and citizens. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to present the government's solution, which he submitted in the Government's opinion on the declaration and sees in the constitutional law. In a public presentation of opinions, experts and all other citizens can also present their views and useful information on our common private property, which has been taken away from us without our consent, unlawfully. Your Honor! That is why I have also sent you the invitation of the group of citizens and citizens to reject the Committee's decision and I propose that you take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Gorazd Renčel, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Member Janko Weber proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of a declaration on the non-existence of the transition of social property to a state through which the National Assembly would communicate to all state institutions, citizens, citizens that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia had never established a way of transforming social property into state property. The Government has examined the proposal for this declaration and has found that the declaration is not appropriate for further consideration. First of all, it should be pointed out that the proposed declaration concerns matters of constitutional regulation and that the declaration is not even an appropriate act to interfere with the current constitutional regime. In terms of content, the Government notes that the proposed declaration is not legally justified as it does not take into account the 99th constitutional amendment to the previous Constitution adopted on 20 February 1991, which has already regulated the transformation of social property into public and other forms of property. This constitutional amendment empowers the legislator to transform social property into other forms of property, and thus allows the State to designate itself as owner. This means that the State, as the legislator, has acquired and has a constitutional basis for transforming social property into state property. Therefore, with regard to the Member's statement that the Constitution does not know the concept of State ownership, it is necessary to clarify that from the new Constitution forward, which, subject to the constitutional amendments to the previous Constitution, is socially and thus has placed property arrangements on new foundations, there is no longer a need for the concept of State ownership to be specifically stressed in the Constitution. Finally, as regards the statement by the Member of Parliament on the arbitrary withdrawal and transformation of social property by the laws on property conversion, it is also true that the elections in 1990 constituted a significant change in the social and economic system, that the constitutional amendment to the previous constitution had already addressed the issue of the transformation of social property in early 1991 and that these changes in social and property arrangements had finally been legally consolidated by the new constitution at the end of 1991. Therefore, it cannot be argued that the adoption of legislation on property conversion is a matter of arbitrary conduct or of unlawful interference with the ownership of social property. The Government therefore notes and informs the National Assembly that the text and explanation of the proposed declaration are not legally justified and therefore opposes its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, one lovely evening! The proposer of the declaration considers that the National Assembly should adopt a declaration on the non-existence of the transfer of social property to the State. The Member proposes that the National Assembly, with this declaration as a declaration of fundamental importance for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, communicate to all national institutions and citizens that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has never established a way of transforming social property into state property. Social property is thus protected in accordance with Article 4 of the Constitutional Law of 25 June 1991 in the same way as private property and therefore enjoys special protection under the Constitution and international conventions. We cannot agree with the proposed declaration in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. We support the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which explained that the transition from a socio-proprietary system to a classic civil law system took place by providing that the constitutional amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was proclaimed by the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 20 February 1991, laid down in point 3 that the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia setting the property maximum on agricultural and forest land and provisions which exclude property rights in buildings in cities and settlements of urban character should be repealed. The Constitutional Amendment provides that the transformation of social property into public and other forms of property is governed by law. The constitutional amendment thus laid the direct constitutional basis for the transformation of social property. The legislator has systematically regulated the ownership of social capital by law on the transformation of legal persons. These laws have transformed social capital and assets, but this legislation does not fully own property belonging to the assets of the redesigned enterprises, but this issue has been regulated by several sectoral laws, mainly among transitional provisions, depending on the type and purpose of the property in the social property. There have been several rules governing the ownership of former social property. In these laws, the right to use on social property has been transformed into property of the Republic of Slovenia or of the municipality or other entities which have had the right to use on social property. A general regulation on the property ownership of social property was the Law on the Real Estate Conversion of Social Property, which regulated the ownership of buildings and land in social property that were not subject to ownership under other laws. By reshaping social property on the basis of constitutional acts and laws, social property and a special legal regime for the protection of this property have ceased. For this reason, in the SMC Group, we will support the conclusion that the proposal for a declaration on the non-existence of the transition of social property to the State is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u170	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have not supported the proposal for a declaration on the non-existence of the transition of social property to the State in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Members and Members of Parliament voted against the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. In view of the fact that this declaration also refers to the management of state property, I would like to take a few words below. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the management of state property under this government and under this coalition of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and Social Democrats are the worst in the history of Slovenia. We are concerned about the events surrounding the New Ljubljana Bank. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly warned about the trap and the inadequate way to sell the New Ljubljana Bank. Today, somehow between the lines and informally, we can even see that the European Commission will demand the refund of the money invested in the New Ljubljana Bank, which, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, is also likely to be a collapse for public finances. We have repeatedly warned that governance of state property under this government is inadequate, ineffective and that partial personal interests actually prevail. The government or the Ministry of Finance had to recapitalise the Slovenian State Holding at the end of 2016 at EUR 200 million, and we are convinced that due to an inadequate strategy for the management of state assets. We see that the Administration of the Slovenian State Holding is still incomplete, and the Supervisory Board has been incomplete. We have recently monitored burlesco around the salaries of the President of the Slovenian State Holding Board and the members of the Slovenian State Holding Board. Many companies managed by SDH are inadequately staffed, some are also without board members and without a full supervisory board. A similar story happens with a company to manage bank claims, so-called bad bank. The Court of Auditors is now expected to report on the management of this company. According to some media information, we have been able to see that the draft report is catastrophic. Once again, we call on this government and this coalition to come to terms with reality and to start seriously and effectively managing Slovenian state property, the property of all citizens and citizens of the Republic, because otherwise we fear that this ineffective and unsuccessful management of state property will have irreparable consequences for the Slovenian economy, for the Slovenian budget and for the public finances for a period of four years.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The fact is that the declaration we are considering today was created as a response to the dissatisfaction of people over the management of state property. We in Desus are critical, rightly critical, and we also propose solutions, both of which are different, and we are not heard many times. The overall findings go in the direction of non-transparent and irresponsible behaviour in the privatisation and recapitalisation of banks. The dissatisfaction of the people here, and not just here, but there's no denying it. We could have a long and broad discussion about this, but we have before us a proposal for a declaration that is of course attractive, but unfortunately does not drink water. In its opinion, she also drew attention to this fact by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The applicant's claim in the declaration stems from the belief that the former social property of all citizens was not regulated after the establishment of the independent Slovenian State at constitutional level. In this respect, it is true that in Slovenia the social property is not mentioned at all. The transition from the socio-proprietary system to the classic civil law system took place by stipulating that the constitutional amendment to the Constitution of the former Socialist Republic of Slovenia, proclaimed by the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 1991, should repeal the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which set the property maximum on agricultural and forest land, and the provisions which exclude property rights in buildings in cities and settlements of a city character. More importantly, the constitutional amendment has also provided that the transformation of social property into public and other forms of property is governed by law. With this, the constitutional amendment has already laid a direct constitutional basis for the transformation of social property. Social property existed only in the former Yugoslavia, but its legal definition was quite blurry. However, we can certainly say that it was not regarded as a private property of every citizen individually, at least not in the sense that it can be sold and purchased by its own volition. It was practically some kind of state property that was more formal than no, made a self-administrative decision or codecision if you want. It is therefore impossible to draw the conclusion that every citizen owns social property because it was not otherwise regulated in the new constitution or in the constitutional law. This was a great simplification that may be politically pleasing, especially at the present time, when you are elected at the door or in front of the door, but as it is said, this is legally unsustainable. Last but not least, 26 years have passed since the adoption of the Constitution, and the adoption of the complainant's thesis could be an interference in the legal relationship behind it, which is not in accordance with the spirit of law. The fact is that the new Constitution of the category of social property no longer knows and therefore does not enjoy constitutional protection. In addition to the constitutional case law and the legal theory, it is undeniable that in the new legal and economic system, social property has been transformed and, if you want, unfortunately, there is no longer rounding or otherwise. In the Desus Group, we wonder, inter alia, what acceptance of such a declaration could possibly bring. The Declaration is not a legally binding act, but it represents political views and political orientation for the follow-up and functioning of state, local and other authorities in the country. Of course, we in Desus and in our Group will continue to advocate righteous measures to prevent people from paying the price of improper, reckless, incorrect, wrong decisions or decisions by managers. We keep reminding this fact and repeatedly that it is not possible to sell state property just over the finger, without serious and substantial arguments. This property still needs to be handled carefully, I stress carefully, and carefully. We can't afford his reckless departure. As a good example of a well-thoughtful accumulation of state property for the needs of both current and future generations, there will certainly be a newly established demographic fund, which I hope or am confident that you will all support in this National Assembly in the interests of future generations. But of course that's another topic. As it is said, from everything I said in this brief presentation of the position of the Desus Group, we do not support such a proposal for a declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The existence of private property is one of the key conditions for establishing a normal society and a normal economy. In Novi Slovenije we do not advocate the transfer of state property to so-called social property. Social property is a concept that in practice cannot exist. Social property is still managed by the State and managed by the State. The establishment of social property in the final stage always entails political involvement in the economy, which has proved to be an extremely negative phenomenon in the history of Slovenia so far. In New Slovenia, we trust in man more than in the country. We are convinced that people are much more responsible and competent than the state in dealing with their property. People are much more effective at developing their abilities when they have their property, and as a result, they contribute to the country through reasonable taxes. Of this, both the individual and the State have the most. In Novi Slovenija, we oppose the return to the concepts of the previous socialist social order, which has fallen brutally. We are defending the social market economy. It is a test and successful link between the principles of the market economy and social policy efforts to achieve social balance. The social market economy is not just an economic system, but a social concept that is incompatible with the socialist concept. In the social market economy, freedom and responsibility and competition and solidarity form a whole. Let me do it again. In the social market economy, freedom and responsibility and competition and solidarity form a whole. In Novi Slovenija we reject totalitarianism, social engineering and the intellectualization of individuals for the goals of the centres of power and politics. Individuals, their freedom, and their sovereignty are important to us. We do not understand politics as a game of subjugation to the state, but rather as a management of a country to provide people with a framework for safe and orderly life and management. From here on out, people know and can do without the introduction of social property. Slovenia is still one of the countries with the country's highest involvement in the economy. The existing Left Government Coalition has virtually stopped the procedures for withdrawing the State's involvement in the economy. In doing so, it even violates its commitments to the European Commission and risks a high penalty. Here I am especially thinking about the New Ljubljana Bank. A few hours old is information about the European Commission's lack of confidence in the effectiveness of Slovenian measures. Those you said did not sell the New Ljubljana Bank despite Slovenian commitments in 2013, you said no to the rule of law, you said no to Slovenian development and you said no to the welfare of Slovenian families and individuals. The Slovenian economy is controlled by companies which are owned, directly or indirectly by the State. These are companies with which policy can be managed through ownership structure. Own interconnections between these companies and vertical links with other sectors in which politics is dominated by management form an economy that is closer to corporateism and a distorted form of socialism than to the free market. In these circumstances, when policies restrict property rights over businesses, unfortunately we cannot talk about a real market mechanism. The re-establishment of social property would only deepen all of the above and further blur the situation. Since in Novi Slovenija we do not wish to return to the times of the previous socialist regime, we will of course oppose the proposal for a declaration, and this is how we acted on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u176	Thank you for your word and a nice hello for the last time today! Members of the Left agree with the spirit of the declaration, the initiator of which is Rastko Plohl of the Independent Unions of Slovenia with fellow thinkers. Therefore, when we vote on the decision proposed by the coalition that the law is not suitable for further consideration, we will vote against it. The basis of this declaration is the protest of citizens against decommissioning, which was the basis for the reconstruction of capitalism in Slovenia. The proponents of the declaration correctly note that the ownership, privatisation and denationalisation processes have taken place without the consent of citizens and that citizens have been damaged in this process. The social property, which was formerly the common property of all, was first converted to state property and then to private property, which was concentrated in the hands of a narrow layer of new capitalists — from the pub barons to the tycoons. Employees who had previously had the right to self-governance with social property were degraded to regular wage workers, and today there are increasing numbers of employees, especially young people, who do not even have the right to work anymore, but are unjust reprimands. In addition, the decommissioning destroyed companies such as TAM and Iskra, thus destroying the enormous economic potential, once flowering industrial sites, and the typical cases condemned Maribor or Kranj to a permanent social setback. All of this has led to the point where 10% of Slovenia's richest people own almost half of all assets and the poorest 20% of its citizens own only half a percent of all assets. This declaration therefore, in the first place, indicated that there was sufficient decommissioning. However, the second reason why we will support the declaration is that it requires a different management of the common property still owned by the State and the municipalities. The government and the municipalities are not owners of state property, but they are representatives of actual owners – citizens. Since they are only representatives of citizens, they have no right to sell this common property and have no right to carry out financial fraud. This also applies to this government. While Cerar's government is not responsible for the TES 6 affair or the damage to citizens in the rehabilitation of banks, it is responsible for this, even though it has been more than five years, or in some case almost ten years, that these matters will still not be cleared up in this mandate. At the same time, the government continues to privatise. Not only did she sell the New Credit Bank Maribor, and at bankruptcy value, the government also intends to sell the New Ljubljana Bank and the Bank, the last publicly owned bank. On the privatisation list in 2018 we can find Hit, Geoplin and Unior Zreče. The Slovenian Railway Company will also be partially privatised – Freight Transport, while the Government is trying to allow Hungary to own the second line of the Divača-Koper line. The question is whether he has the consent and mandate of citizens for all of this. According to our assessment and the assessment of the applicants, he does not have a declaration. Therefore, in Levica we support the spirit of this declaration, which says that the denationalisation was in the 1990s, that the Government is not the owner of the state property, that SDH is not a private capital fund and that without the mandate of citizens it cannot and must not continue the privatisation and leniency procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a declaration is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide in half an hour in the context of the vote. I hereby adjourn the 14th agenda item and the 37th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 6.30 p.m. In half an hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u178	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 3, 4, 12, 9, 5 and 14 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law supplementing the Law on Access to Information of a Public Interest following a reduced procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Products of Tribal Metals, following a short procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 3 of the agenda. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Registration Act following the reduced procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, President. We will not support this property registration law. The fact is that we have proposed that in such an important law, which touches every citizen, a procedure should be carried out on a regular basis. We have also proposed a public presentation of the opinions below, and all of this has proved very necessary, as we have already found on the Committee that some articles are not harmonised. The Coalition has proposed that it prepare amendments for the third hearing, but today the amendments have not been discussed at the meeting, so there are a number of articles that are very questionable and at least Article 5, which is probably constitutionally controversial in fact. In the course of the procedure, only the contracting authority of the site improvement shall be legitimized, but shall not provide any legal protection to all participants in the process. This proposal was already accepted by the Committee and even proposed that the meeting be suspended, continued at one of the following meetings of the working body, but the majority voted in favour of the continuation or undecided outcome, which meant that the decision was not adopted. Since the amendment has not been drafted by the coalition or the government, this article remains inconsistent. I must say that there has been a very concrete proposal on the Committee, which would also resolve this matter, that all procedures are being carried out in the direction that they are under official responsibility, in the event that only one party in the proceedings is legitimate but remain in an unequal position, so this law will be submitted to the Constitutional Court and will probably be repealed in this part. I think it is unacceptable that, just before the end of our term of office, we are dealing with such problems with a law that does not essentially solve any matter, it is quick and unacceptable that, with all the awareness that you Members of the Committee and even in some informal debates, you should know that you agree that the matter is uncoordinated, that such a law should be allowed through the procedure. I suggest that the rest of you consider it and that we stop the law and that the government or the ministry prepare a consistent law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u180	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour and 21 votes in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 4 of the agenda. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on intervention measures to remedy the effects of the weather between 11 and 12 December 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for an intervention measure to remedy the effects of the weather between 11 and 12 December 2017 is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u181	Your Honor! On 11th and 12th December, the heavy grip covered both Gorenjska, in particular the area of Jezersko, Predvor and Bohinja, as well as Notranjska, Idrija, Kočevsko, Koroška and some other parts of Slovenia. According to the data presented today by the Secretary of State, who has been talking about the estimated damage to more than 2 million cubic metres of damaged forests, the damage has already been comparable to that in 2014. It is said that it is certainly justified to propose an appropriate law, and in the SDS we have also done so, out of responsibility to the people, because this law would allow everyone affected to pay more quickly compensation to introduce tax reliefs for all those affected by the capture to quickly and fully restore roads, remote and all other infrastructures, all that was affected, without unnecessary bureaucratic complications. The solutions that we are proposing do not deviate from similar solutions to the larger natural pitfalls in the past, which we have also regulated by special law. Moreover, in this law we propose something else, not only in words, but also in actions, to prove that we respect the noble mission of firefighters. In this law, we propose that the state assumes adequate responsibility and introduces state incentives for voluntary firefighters and tax incentives for their employment by providing funds for the provision of operational volunteer firefighters insurance, by providing funds for preventive health checks of operational firefighters, in order to provide voluntary operational firefighters with funding for additional health insurance and, for each day of the public service, additional pension insurance. Moreover, because we know that voluntary firefighters face difficulties in their employment, because their absence can seriously interfere with the business process in each company, especially if there are more in the company, we propose that the country then also stimulates the employment of firefighters by reducing insurance premiums to the employer who employs a voluntary firefighter and introducing additional tax incentives to the employer. This will prove that not only in words, when we express our gratitude to the firefighters, we also prove this in action. To pass this on to some imaginary system law, which is passed several months after the regular procedure, is in view of the fact that the last meeting in April will be a purely transparent excuse. In the SDS, we will therefore prove our responsibility and vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u182	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u183	Thank you. To remedy the consequences of natural disasters, there is already a system law that is already being implemented in practice and in the field, so we will not support this law and are not fit for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u184	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 45. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. This concludes the 12th item of the agenda. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u185	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the Desus Group we will support the proposal of this law. We estimate that it is not ideal, it is not the best at this time, but we expect to improve it slightly in the next stages, correct it, and all in the interest of pensioners and pensioners. We expect, however, that in the same breath, I must say that all those who today are either against or against this law will also support the proposal of our law, which speaks of the correction of the wrongs of pensioners and pensioners that have occurred to them in the past period. Why? It is unacceptable that pensioners are and are still paying the highest price of transition, the highest price of the financial and economic crisis. They give up and come to the brink of their existential minimum. After 40 years of denial, efforts to build our system must not be made to question their decent life. We also support the efforts of all employees to get a fair pay for honest work. This is the only way to give all people a decent life. A good 8% of the mismatches that we want to pay to pensioners in some way over the next three-year period, which represents slightly more than 300 million, should not be easy for a country that easily raises salaries for directors to raise wages by a few tenths of the SDH President, but should not be too much for that country. And to conclude, because there is a lot of unrest in the Chamber, and the President is not able to sanction it properly. Even if there is a flawed step in this law, however, we consider it to be a likely step in the right direction, which is why Desus will be supported at this stage. I believe and I am sure, as I have already said, that when it comes to the agenda, our law, which we have drawn up in the Desus Group, which is the remedy for the injustice of pensioners from the past, will also receive broad support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u186	Any other explanation for the voice? First of all, I ask if there is any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the groups. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. As I said earlier in the Group's position, we are absolutely opposed to the two measures under this Act, namely, the first reduction in employers' liability, because this means that it will no longer be possible to exercise effective protection of workers' safety at work; the second thing that we are totally opposed to is dual pension status. I've already counted the reasons, so I wouldn't repeat them. However, we will abstain from voting, on the grounds that there is a third part of the law, which we agree with, and we have also proposed it at the meeting of the home committee last November. This, however, means that people who entered the compulsory insurance after the old PPIZ and then continuously paid social contributions also after the entry into force of the so-called Visionary Law, which gave them the right to make amends to this injustice and to include their period of inclusion in the insurance after the 31st period. 1. 2012. With the hope that the problematic parts of this law will be eliminated in the second reading and that this part will be preserved, in this case, we will abstain in the first reading, and in the second, if we fail to agree, as I have now ordered, we will vote against it, otherwise we will support the law. Maybe just one more note. In Levika, we have already proposed a formulation at a meeting of the parent working body, which in our opinion was more appropriate than the one in the law, so that if the law goes through, we propose that we look at that formulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u188	Is there any other explanation? Like this one, it's not like the last one that wasn't an explanation. Explanation of the vote in its own name Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. I have decided to vote in favour of this law mainly because of his proposal for dual status. In principle, I do not agree on double status only for craftsmen, but because this law is at first reading and will receive other treatment if adopted today, we will be able to enforce double status for all. And I stand for double status for everyone. So that someone who qualifys for retirement may receive a pension and continue to be in a working relationship or be reinvigorated. Changes in the labour market have changed significantly, labour is too small, we all know that. What are the deficient professions, both in these professional groups, roofers, chiropractors, I don't know who else, as well as doctors and scientists and all the other different profiles in these groups. That is why I will support this law in particular with the aim of establishing dual status at the next stage of adoption, i.e. for all pensioners, and also for all those who are still in a working relationship today, but they are eligible for retirement so that they can have a pension and remain in a working relationship if the employer agrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u190	Any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. You've provoked me a little bit. Maybe I'll retire once before the stroke hits me. No, it's not funny. Look, I'm basically on my own to what you call double status, that someone's working, I don't have a problem with any proper taxation. But I have a problem with the ideological background. A person also has the right to a pension after all. And our policy, whether we here or the next call should give people this opportunity, not kick ass for the rest of their lives. And this is the task of the system laws on health and health and smart specialisation and education strategies, so that I do not continue. That a party representing a pensioner for 20 years in all governments doesn't see it, it's a little sad. I will be here abstinence, but I hope that this story will go forward in some direction from all the current pensioners, and finally from us, who hope to see this happen, even if policies like Cerar lead them and their respective governments, I have little doubt that we will be able to wait for the pension. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u192	We're voting. There were 73 Members and Members present and 63 votes against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. This concludes item 9 of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the bill on payment services, electronic money services and payment systems under the regular procedure. Since the second amendment to the amended bill has not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and one against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 5 of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on the Non-existence of the Transition of Social Property to State. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a declaration on the non-existence of the transition of social property to a state is not suitable for further consideration. A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the decision of the Finance Committee that the declaration on the non-existence of the transition of social property to the state is not suitable for further consideration. I will vote against it because I have tabled a declaration to citizens and citizens with the support of 5,000 signatories to this declaration and with the group support of organisations that bring together 300,000 citizens and citizens. Given that Article 3 of the Constitution in the second paragraph makes it very clear that in Slovenia the authority of the people is limited to the people to speak in the National Assembly by a decision of the Committee on Finance. But citizens have power. The board is preventing them from doing so. On what grounds? I claim that there is no legal basis for someone who has power not to speak in the temple of democracy. And last but not least, it's private property. When we talk about common private property, it means that we are all capitalists and everyone must have a guaranteed return from this common property, but not just a select few people who have a breakdown in political parties. And look, political parties don't have power in Slovenia, they have power of people. And the people have also given you an invitation to oppose this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u194	Explanation of voice in its own name, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. As a whole, I, too, will vote against the conclusion that this proposal for a declaration is not appropriate for further consideration. As it is said, more than 300,000 citizens have signed. And if the people have power, then it is imperative to listen to their voice. They've been silent for too long, that's a fact, because we've never, ever given the authorities a ticket to sell out what our parents and old parents produced with their punching work, with their ideas, with their free work. Why? So we could live better. And when you restored capitalism, we got – what? The dismissal of workers, the sale of successful factories, the tycoonization, the profits that have moved into tax havens and the people are on the road. So many homeless people as we have today, so many unemployed, so many working poor, are unacceptable. This vote of the signatories is also a clear sign that this exploitation is sufficient and that we want a different, fairer social system. We have never allowed the transfer of social property to state, let alone private, private pockets of individuals. Today, we have 10% of the richest people who own half of everything, and everyone else is a lawless paradise. This government also privatized, as we know, from the Brnik Airport, Mercator, and Telekom wanted to, and somehow we stopped him. Never, never have citizens voted for it. We will therefore vote against the conclusion that it is not suitable for further consideration. We are confident that there is yet another way to talk about this. To do honor and power!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u196	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Look, this year's bean of the year was given to a lone conqueror who risked his life there in Shentil and said that the veterans did not fight for where this beautiful chicken came into the quarter of the century. I belong to a generation that had the honour of listening to that FSPN, and also Ambassador Janš probably listened to this, the legendary Stank Južič, who taught us the history of civilizations, recent history, colonization, decolonisation. It's not funny, fellows who laugh. And there you might know that when a transition happens, someone will always steal it from you. Those old ones will change the river a little bit, a member sitting here near me said in a tapegram: "Ah, because we destroyed everything that could be destroyed." Not all of them, but you've done enough. And then there's the selection of new ones, and there's someone by the foreign dictatorship, if you keep your sovereignty. And then you get what you get. If I'm paraphrasing the film, we're going our own way, someone in the quarter of the century has abused it. I haven't sat here in a quarter of a century, but certain people have sat here. And what's most awful is that certain people are re-elected, which I, as a sociologist, understand, and at a personal level, not even as a father or guardian of five children. This declaration comes twenty years late, but not really too late. But as Cerar's government and Miro Cerar represent this, I remember very quickly when Cerar began to run this government, he explained to us that this state property is a little wrong for us lunatics to explain that it belongs to him, not to us. I'll stop here. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u198	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and therefore the procedure for the examination of the proposal for a declaration has been completed. This concludes item 14 of the agenda. I am adjourning the 37th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
