ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 54th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Anita Koleša, Dr. Jasna Murgel, Mrs. Vesna Vervega, Mrs. Erika Dekleva, Mr. Ivan Hršak, Dr. László Göncz, Ms. Luka Mesec, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Franc Jurša, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Mr Miha Kordiš and Mr Dusan Radič. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 54th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 1 March 2018, with reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 54th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On behalf of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on this matter, this is a recommendation made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the status of the Slovenian military and the request for the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. On the basis of Article 107(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 223(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 25 Members with first-signed Mr Jožet Tank also proposed that the National Assembly request an opinion on this matter from the President of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 223 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly will decide on this proposal in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 64, paragraph 10. In view of this, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposal's proposal to Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister! The laws that are proposed do not make the situation worse, but the important thing is that they do not rescue it. “If you do not exempt the Slovenian Armed Forces from the single wage system in the public sector, if you do not regulate the benefits and if you do not make any other changes, in 2020, 2021 Slovenian Armed Forces will no longer have.” These are the words of the then deputy, and today the current Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Army, General Alan Geder, who spoke at the 60th urgent meeting of the Defence Committee, confirmed the existence of a crisis in the Slovenian Army and poured pure wine to the entire Slovenian public. In view of what the General has said, we have prepared a proposal for a recommendation for the Government in the SDS and Nova Slovenije groups, put his proposals in this recommendation and tabled it in the National Assembly. What happened was what we could have expected, given that we know what the situation was – that the coalition rejected these recommendations, and that it also in some way voted against General Gedder, who made it clear where the army was and, above all, what we should do to make the situation better. Equipment, finance and personnel. All three are the area under the responsibility of the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence at present. What we have tabled is a criticism of the entire mandate of the Ministry of Defence, the criticism of the years that were infertile to the Ministry of Defence is the criticism of the Supreme Commander of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, who, as Prime Minister, allowed the Slovenian Armed Forces to suffer a severe blow in the reduction of financial resources from 2009 to 2011. Now, after six, seven years, that's the only thing you know. The economic situation is improving and a large number of members and members are leaving the military. With national courage and pride, unfortunately, they cannot pay the bills, the equipment they have often puts them in unpleasant situations. For all of this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence and since we want to make improvements in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed a recommendation with New Slovenia. Unfortunately, this has not been accepted and, if not, we expect, after the President has given his opinion, including the Government's opinion on what it will do to improve the situation. Clear measures and clear objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u3	It is not clear from this that we are now voting on or attempting to discuss a procedural decision to request the opinion of the President of the Republic on these issues. A presentation of the views of the groups on the question of the request to the President of the Republic follows. First of all, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u4	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice hello to you all! On 21 February, the Group of Members and Members of the opposition SDS and New Slovenia tabled a proposal for a recommendation on the situation in the Slovenian Army and, in this regard, requested an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and a request for an opinion from the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation and the request for an extraordinary meeting, or the reasons laid down therein, are not new. Individual issues and the situation in the Slovenian Army in general have been filled in by the State Defence Committee in this mandate. We also discussed the Slovenian Army, from its capacity to the social position of its members, in plenary sessions. Among other things, at the 31st extraordinary meeting of May 2016, at which he presented his views on the situation in the Slovenian Army, Mr Borut Pahor, the then and present President of the Republic. In the context of the multi-annual successive negative assessments of the state of readiness of Slovenia, the President of the Republic, in addition to his concern at the end of 2017, stressed publicly the necessity of updating the military and the entire national security system and his support for amending the roof legislation. In view of the content of the proposal for a recommendation, we support the proposal that the President of the Republic of Slovenia also make an opinion on the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Its opinion will make an important contribution to the real assessment of the situation in the Slovenian Army rather than to unverified information and to the speedy delivery of conclusions that disturb the public, but are most damaging to members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. At the same time, we expect President Pahor, within his powers now that the government of Dr. Mir Cerar has managed to stabilise public finances, at the same time, to stop the long-standing decline in defence resources and, with additional extraordinary increases in resources for the Slovenian Army, to even reverse the trend in another direction, with his proposals and initiatives, to actively engage in the process of seeking social consensus on how to solve the most pressing problems in the Slovenian Army and its long-term development vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u5	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u6	Good-bye! Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected veterans, veterans of the war for Slovenia, respected former comrades of my fighting, respected all those patriots who have ever been an intimate option to you in Slovenia and the Slovenian Army! For the fourth year in a row, the Slovenian army has been at the lowest level of ability to function, which is essentially a matter of natural concern. The main problem is that Mrs Andrej Katič, Minister for Defence, has raised this problem publicly on several occasions, and even now the former Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Army, Major General Andrej Osterman. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have two problems in the Slovenian Army and in the Slovenian Army. The first problem is the budgetary threat of the Slovenian Army, which is due to the low funding of the Slovenian Army, we can say, in the last decade. The second, more important aspect of the threat of the Slovenian Armed Forces is the revaluation of the basic values, the basic value centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which was created at the Slovenian Spring, at the merger, not at the search for first- and second-class soldiers, officers or subordinates, officers or military personnel of the Slovenian Army. That is why, we can also say, from the Union then come serious warnings about Slovenia. The main findings of NATO are that Slovenia does not adhere to the financing commitments and the construction of the capacity of the Slovenian Army. Thus, from 2010 to today, the Slovenian Army lost more than 40% of its funding. The consequences of reducing the budget or following our threat, financial threat or budgetary threat to this important system are reflected in technological backlog, low levels of maintenance of fighting assets in the Slovenian Army, and low funding also results in lower skills, technological backlog, low level of maintenance, outdated safeguards and, above all, an outdated fleet. In NATO, our financial sub-nutrition structure is the worst, I repeat, the worst, for the development and modernisation of equipment, instead of 20% of the funds, we can give only 0.66% at the moment, which is at least among all Member States. With regard to the value system of the Slovenian Armed Forces, however, we can identify the second part of the threat. This is a major problem of the Slovenian Army – the inability to stop the moral decline and raise the apathy of its representatives and representatives. As we can see in the media and from the statements made by the visible representatives of the Slovenian Armed Forces, there has been a clear decline in morale over the last three years. The problem is also a decline in trust in superior and consequently fighting morality in the units. The problem of the Slovenian Army is also an inappropriate human resources policy. At tactical level, it is observed that the unplanned and campaigning pathways of individuals who are heavily dependent on the current unit commanders, which are also changing at a rapid rate, so that each plan is broken down before it can be implemented. This process is further disrupted by the Minister by voluntarily adding and withdrawing the conditions for promotion and employment. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The President of the Republic said in his last position on the 2016 report: "But dedication and gratitude are not enough. The numbers show that the military profession is no longer a competitive profession in the Slovenian space. Improving the economic situation, opening up jobs and better working conditions in related professions will have an additional impact on the situation in the military." Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that, pursuant to Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Republic of Slovenia deliver an opinion within 24 hours on the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u7	The word is given by the Desus Group, for which Mr. Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u8	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We probably all know that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates that the President of the State represents the country and that he is the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces. We are also all aware of the topic of today's extraordinary meeting; we are again discussing the situation in the Slovenian Army, which, according to the proposer, is still extremely critical, and it is therefore clear that this situation must also be addressed by the President of the State as the Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Mr President has, in the past, been repeatedly critical of the situation in the Slovenian Army. While we remain in our parliamentary group in the position that it is a topic which should not be politicised, politics is not the one responsible for what happened in the Slovenian Army's verification. We also believe that this topic is not suitable for gathering political points in this, I can say, pre-election time. Nevertheless, in our Group of Members, we also agree that the President of the State must, in his opinion on this issue, which we will address at this extraordinary meeting, inform the citizens and citizens of our country, whose security is the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u9	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague! The President of the Republic, as Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Armed Forces, has only two powers: to receive a report on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to raise the Brigadiers to generals. If we focus only on the first jurisdiction, which has been pointing to the multifaceted problem of our defence forces for several years now, we can only conclude one thing: the President of the Republic should regularly monitor the situation in the military and call on the Ministry of Defence and the Government to change the entire system of national security. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that just warning is not enough to make any real difference. If the President of the Republic publicly reveals a poor assessment of the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, he should also be more decisive in predicting solutions. The candidate for last year's presidential elections, Borut Pahor, said at the time of the campaign that the factors in the security and defence system have changed considerably in recent years, "...and we have not changed the concept, design and philosophy of defence against new risks as it would take time." We have listened to such findings for several years. And what is the result of these findings? He's not here. While the military received several more funds in the last budget, everything else remains at the same level. The fact is that only an increase in the volume of funds or a halt to the downward trend is not sufficient for its operation. Slovenia needs immediate human resources reinforcement and modernisation at all levels. At the moment, we have no vision and no strategic reinforcements to strengthen national security. It is all too much, ladies and gentlemen, empty words and promises and the conclusion that the profession of soldiers must be restored to dignity, re-evaluated and motivated by young people to decide on this profession. Now is the time for action. Now is the time for action. Colleagues and colleagues! It is time to tell ourselves honestly whether we want to have an army in Slovenia at all. This question is practically the same as whether we want to have our country or not, because the military is one of the key attributes of the country. So if we want to have an army, let's give her everything she needs and otherwise let her go. The worst option is the situation we have right now. We are convinced that the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor is aware of this. We expect his clear position and the solutions he has set out, so we will, of course, support the proposal for a decision to obtain his opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary! The President of the Republic of Slovenia will, in the event of the adoption of a decision - and we do not doubt that this will be the third time in this reference to an important and current topic - on the situation in the Slovenian Army. As regards the situation at the border of the Republic of Slovenia in the event of the migration crisis, the National Assembly addressed in November 2015; it already stressed the need to increase cash for the police and the military. In the light of this, it was also for the second time, as the Commander of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Slovenia, that the Slovenian Army was assessed for a second time in a row because of its lack of financial resources at the lowest level of readiness. He called for an increase in financial support for both the main security pillars of the country. However, it must be acknowledged that the Minister's efforts have nevertheless paid off and that financial assistance for the Slovenian Army has increased over the last two years. However, it is difficult to expect that the situation in the Slovenian Army will change overnight with a few financial injections. This will not be done by the opposition’s constant strike. Moreover, it seems that this one wants to turn the army into an appropriate political arena for his own, I repeat, for his political accounts. On this account, the military is being torn apart, and the numbers of its members and members have been constantly decreasing, and the motivation and dissatisfaction have been caught in this spiral. It also helps to raise the Slovenian economy in recent years, and potential candidates prefer to find work elsewhere than in the poorly paid Slovenian Army. If we add even worse demographic prospects to this, we cannot promise anything better in the future without sincere political intentions and, above all, actions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of many factors that affect the functioning and situation of the Slovenian defence system. And these are not only the result of the management of the defence ministry between 2009 and 2011 and 2014 and 2018. They have a much longer beard if we want to admit it or not. We will support the conclusion that the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces will be defined on Wednesday, 7 March, until the situation in the Slovenian Army. However, we expect a discussion to develop at the following point in order to find solutions, how policy can help improve the situation in the important security pillar of the country and will also have to be carried out by the highest professional command authority in the Slovenian Army – the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. All of us will have to assume our share of responsibility in the coming months and years, thinking that we are not breaking down, but helping to rebuild the reputation of the Slovenian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u13	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. The left hand will not support the proposal for a number of reasons. The first one is procedural. 107. Article 107 of the Constitution would be justified if the President did not wish to make a statement on this issue, but we know that the President of the military will make an official statement on the status of the military on the issue of readiness, even this month. Otherwise, President Pahor's views are well known to all. The SDS therefore uses Article 107 for its propaganda. It is known that the President will support the demands to increase military and armed expenditure, which NATO expects us to do. We are, of course, opposed to that in the Levica. First of all, because the purchase of weapons will not improve the standard of our soldiers. Secondly, because the defence capacity of Slovenia will not increase, but only the usefulness of our army for NATO operations abroad. And thirdly, because the SDS proposes to increase the salaries of all members of the Slovenian Army, including those of the highest. This is a social injustice because the soldier would gain 300 euros and the senior officers would gain 1,000 euros and more. In fact, this would reward those who are guilty of this bad situation. Human resources problems in the military are mainly due to her subjugation to Nate's demands. If the military were to carry out its constitutional task, this is the defense of the state, they wouldn't need a large permanent structure. Slovenia has more soldiers per capita than the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary or Poland. We maintain a large permanent composition through NATO's dictatorship, so that the units are in constant readiness and available for operations abroad. Nor is it true that the problem of the Slovenian Army is under-funded; in the last 10 years we have spent more on the military than Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. Nevertheless, the results are devastating. We are therefore firmly convinced in Levica that this last blemish of the Slovenian Armed Forces must be used to radically change defence policy. The military must return to its constitutional task — the defence of the state. The process of setting up two medium-sized battalion groups should be halted. 1.2 billion euros, as much as it costs us, is smarter and more urgent for the development of our society. That is why we in Levica demand that citizens and citizens be identified in the referendum, and we will by no means support the request to define President Pahor. Because Pahor is a fan of NATO and a supporter of the aggressive politics of Western powers. All of this, of course, does not mean that we are not concerned about the standard of soldiers; on the contrary, the Left would recognise all trade union and labour rights, but this is a second debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u16	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Unfortunately, some security is only known when it is threatened. But then it's too late. We have to act proactively. What is the situation in Slovenia? The ones who have to take care of our safety? Owl's item. The police are under-completed, even in this mandate mostly in the sentence. What's in the Slovenian Army? The President of the country has made a negative assessment on several occasions. He says, these hybrid threats that await us, we are not prepared for these threats. If we decided to enter NATO at the referendum in Slovenia, then we must have a professional army that is trained and educated and we must create a reputation. This reputation is still important if we look at that we now need it for arbitration, for the New Ljubljana Bank, as well as for Mercator. That's very important. And of course, if the problem is money As it appears, money is not a problem; we have it for banks, we have it for 2TKK and we have it for vascular support and advisory contracts. [[…]] So we could have him safe. For if we consider it safe, then we will also have it for the economy and for tourism and for everything that Slovenia needs. Because what does the economy need? Safe country. When are the foreigners going to invest? When we're safe. When's the tourist coming? When we're safe. Therefore, it is important that we face our views, for the asymmetricity of information does not provide the right answers. It is therefore right to hold a debate and therefore in the Group of Non-Aligned Members we support that the President of the State gives his opinion on security in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In order to further clarify the reasons for the proposal, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Jean Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, President. I didn't understand that observation you made at the beginning, so it's obviously necessary to explain again. If it has not been clear from my opening statement that there are more than enough reasons for President Pahor, who is the commander of the defence forces, to express his opinion or position, then I do not know how he could present it more visually, unless, of course, we are going in terms of the form of how the sentences are formed. In short, because of the situation in the Slovenian Army, we are interested in the opinion of the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, Mr Borut Pahor. We've been interested in seeing him for two years since he finally gave his opinion. At that time, the President also provided us with some information in terms of numbers concerning the situation in the Slovenian Army, and a comparison of this will be interesting. We want to hear this because, contrary to one of the views, we believe that politics is the one responsible for the situation in the military. Because if in 2008 we did not – we know how – to seduce the story that due to the need for the then elections, the discredit of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Janez Janša to break the purchase of 135 Patrie shells, today Slovenia would have two battalion fighting groups, which would raise the fighting power that would boost our readiness to raise Slovenia's reputation in the alliance; we would have two middle battalion fighting groups and today certainly not talk about the problems we have. If there were no cuts in the defence budget and we want to hear President Pahor here what he had in mind at the time when, through his finance minister and with the obvious approval of his defence minister, he was squandering the assets of the Slovenian Army. [[…]] Have they not seen three, four years ahead, what can happen if the international environment changes? Since then, there has been an Islamic state, there has been an aggressive Russian policy, an invasion of Crimea and the eastern part of Ukraine. As Dr. Dobovšek said; we are aware of safety too late or we are aware of it when security is gone. And we want to hear from the President of the Republic his clear direction, not so much that he supports the NATO Alliance as, in particular, what he intends to do as High Commander. The first step was to put a new chief at the head of the military, who was clearly and loudly in the National Assembly, in spite of my firm conviction that the commander who was objectively responsible for the situation had left behind and that the Commissioner, who was the first to be seriously alerted in this National Assembly, was for the first time that there was an existing crisis and for the second time how much money needed to be given, that the Slovenian Army came out of this existential crisis or that this crisis was not deepening. In four years, we have not heard any concrete initiatives to address the situation of the rulings. On the opposition's side, there were many proposals, but they all, unfortunately, ended up like this last proposal for a recommendation that did not follow some political games, but we followed only what the military profession said – that the military should be exempted from the single pay system and that wages should be raised. Raise wages for all, because if we raise 30% of our salary only to soldiers, sub-tensions, tens, tens, those salaries will slowly reach the level of lieutenants and lieutenants. In short, we will draw the salaries of the soldiers closer to the salaries of the lowest officers, and the officers will begin to wonder what is the point of acting as officers in the Slovenian Army. In short, there are many issues and we want to hear the opinion of the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, but above all we want to hear proposals for concrete solutions from those who consistently reject concrete proposals for solutions on our part. At least that's what you'd expect three months before the elections, the government to make some guidelines and say that, and that's what you should do if you don't want the military to do in two years' time. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-05-SDZ7-Izredna-54.ana.u19	I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for a decision and moving on to a decision. We vote on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly, pursuant to Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, requests the President of the Republic of Slovenia to deliver an opinion within 24 hours on the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 3. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Since the decision has been adopted, I am terminating the first item of the agenda and the 54th extraordinary meeting, which will be resumed on Wednesday by the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation 7. 3. 2018, at 2 p.m. when we receive the opinion of the President of the Republic.
