ParlaMint-SI_2018-07-27-SDZ8-Izredna-04.ana.u1	Dear Members, good afternoon! I begin the 4th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Jurij Lepi, Ferenc Horváth, Ivan Hršak, Matjaž Germany, Jani Prednik, Jelka Godec, Franci Kep, Anja Bah Žibert, Marijan Pojbič, Igor Peček, Jože Lenart, Iva Dimic, Blaž Pavlin, Aleksander Reberšek, Jernej Vrtovec, mag. Marco Pogačnik, mag. Branko Grims, Matey the Widow and Natasha the Sukič. I invited Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, and representatives of the Government who are engaged in ongoing business. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today by reference to the sitting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, the president of the Republic of Slovenia was informed that he would not submit a candidate for the presidency of the government to the national assembly. By letter of 23 July 2018, the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, informed me that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 225 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he would not propose a candidate for the President of the Government and asked that the State Assembly be informed at the meeting. In this regard, I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 112 and Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is informed by the following decision: The National Assembly notes that the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor has informed the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 111(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 225(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he will not propose a candidate for the President of the Government. The period referred to in Article 111, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in which a candidate for the Prime Minister may be proposed, shall begin on 28 July 2018 and shall expire on 10 August 2018. More notice. If a candidate for the Prime Minister is submitted in the second round, the National Assembly of the Election of the President of the Government will be held first on 13 August and no later than 17 August. I also conclude the 1st item of the agenda and also the 4th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice, nice, sunny weekend. Good luck! The meeting was closed on 27 July 2018 at 12.04 p.m.
