ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Jelka Godec, Ferenc Horváth, Janez Janša, Marijan Pojbič, Iva Dimic from 16:00 on, mag. Carmen Furman, mag. Diane Jedhan from 14th to 16th hours, mag. Branislav Rajić until 2.30 p.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko from 16:00 p.m., Dr. Darij Krajčič until 8 p.m., Jani Möderndorfer until 1 p.m., and I will be away from 16.30 p.m. alone. Government representatives were invited to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 7 December 2018, by reference to the sitting. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 63 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I suggest that today's meeting be scheduled as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, are compatible with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Andre Bertoncl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u2	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It is my great pleasure that I am here among you and that the novel of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 is just before you accept it. The basic objective of this technical law is to legalise solutions that will allow for the current and smooth implementation of the country's adopted budget for 2019. Allow me to present the proposal to you in substance. The proposal of this law lays down the legal basis for changes to be made in transactions related to the management of the interest risks of the sovereign budget's debt to be recorded only on the balance sheet accounts. Under the Non-Governmental Organisations Act, legal basis had to be provided for the establishment of a budget fund to finance the development of non-governmental organisations. This law requires the establishment of a budget fund for the development of non-governmental organisations which, through calls for proposals, finance projects and programmes of horizontal networks and regional conflicts, and programmes and measures aimed at promoting the development of NGOs and the development of a support environment for NGOs. The funding of the non-governmental development fund is primarily due to incomes not earmarked by taxpayers for the financing of generally beneficial purposes, for the financing of political parties or representative unions, even though they could, in accordance with the law governing income. This possibility has so far been served by a poor half of the debtors. However, following the proposed arrangements, the remaining difference will be up to 0.5% of the income now earmarked for the replenishment of the budget. This law also lays down the legal basis that allows the State to manage those capital investments that are not managed by the Slovenian State Holding or the proposed law provides for the preparation of an annual capital investment management plan managed by the Government. In this part it is necessary to clarify that the capital investments managed by the Government – SODO, ELES, Borzen, 2TKK, DRI, Slovenian State Forests – are also included in the Capital Investment Management Strategy adopted by the National Assembly as well as those managed by SDH. This law also regulates the content that we still have to implement this year and affects the implementation of the budget of the State and municipal budgets in the following year, 2019. The proposed novel thus increases the average of the municipalities next year. In accordance with the agreement reached by the Government with the municipal associations, it will amount to 573.5 euros, which is the most so far. As a result of the increase in the average, budget expenditure will increase by €32.5 million next year. This allows municipalities to prepare municipal budgets in a timely manner on realistic assumptions. The proposal also allows for minimum additional employment in the State authorities, 0.8% according to the situation of employees on 31 December 2017 and an additional ten posts at the Labour Inspectorate and an additional ten posts at the ILO to implement the Climate Change Fund measures. Additional employment is also allowed for the duration of the Slovenian Presidency project to the Council of the EU and establishes a legal basis for the employment of persons working with an external contractor. In accordance with the agreement of the public sector trade unions, it is provided for the payment of jubilee awards and the restriction on the payment of performance agreed in the expert agreement, thereby creating a fiscal space for professional requirements. By this law we have also determined the amount of the annual pension allowance. We will spend 140 million euros for it next year, 18 million more than the new estimate for this year. In summary, all in conjunction with the proposal for a law setting out the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in 2019 — the amount of extraordinary harmonisation linked to the actual GDP growth achieved in 2018. However, since this version is set out in the law, this means that extraordinary harmonisation will take place even if the Council does not adopt a proposal for extraordinary harmonisation of pensions. The law also specifies the amount of the annual regression, which follows the social note in a way that takes into account the amount of the pension, meaning, in other words, that pensioners who receive lower pensions receive a higher annual allowance. It is also important to establish new classes in a way that adapts to the planned harmonisation of pensions, which will prevent pensioners from falling to a second higher class due to the harmonisation of pensions, while at the same time increasing the amount of the annual allowance in all classes. The amendments presented mean that the proposed law regulates only the most urgent content or, in particular, those which need to be implemented as from 1 January 2019. Despite favourable economic growth, budgetary planning requires caution as economic activity is dying both at home and in international markets. Expenditures will be reduced, namely €60 million for the state budget or €100 million for the state sector, due to the failure to pay regular work performance and an increase in labour volume. The latter measure is intended to create a fiscal space to address the strike requirements of public sector unions. The implementation of this law will have financial implications for other public financial resources, increasing the revenue of municipalities by €32.5 million, and affecting SPIZ at €18 million will also be the result of a larger annual supplement. With this novel, we are following a social note, but within the limits that are all sustainable, while we will all have to be careful together not to stray from the right path. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance as a parent working body. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 7th urgent meeting on 11 December this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. As a material for the meeting, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of Members and Members with the first-signed Branet Golubović, the comments of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and the Working Group, the opinion of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the opinion of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and the letter of five chambers; the Trade and Enterprise, the Association of Employers, crafts and entrepreneurs, the Association of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled: the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 8, the New Slovenia Group to Article One and the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article Two. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Service and the Council of the State participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives and main solutions to the draft law and the purpose of the individual provisions contained therein. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated that the Legislative and Legal Service had made a general comment in its written opinion and comments to the individual article of the bill. It noted that the amendments tabled followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on individual articles, but did not take into account the observation that certain content was not adequately regulated by the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance said that the Commission supported the bill, as was the result of their written opinion. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee supported the solutions contained in the draft law under consideration, as well as individual amendments tabled, as they eliminate savings in the most vulnerable groups. They stressed that significant progress has been made in the light of the first draft of the bill under consideration. Members and members of the Committee supported the increase in the average, but expressed concerns about the usefulness of certain jobs provided by the proposal for a law. The issue of the use of funds covered by Article 4 of the bill was raised. It was also noted that some austerity measures still burden pensioners, recipients of social transfers and public servants. The debate also touched on the problem of excessive standardisation with the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, since these volumes and substantive rules should be regulated by other legal acts. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance provided additional explanations and answers to the questions raised in the debate. The answers concerned in particular the process of drafting and adopting the draft law under consideration, public sector employment and the current use of funds covered by Article 4 of the bill under consideration. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the articles of the draft law to the coalition's parliamentary groups by 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11 and 13. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 11 of the bill. Nor did he accept the two amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 4 and Article 11 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Susana Lepi Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The Law on the implementation of the budget is usually the accompanying law on the treatment of budgets. The 2019 budget was adopted under the previous government, or a narrow version of the current government, and its changes or rebalancing are expected immediately at the beginning of 2019. However, the Law on the implementation of the budget is usually a law in which we can find very different content without which the implementation of the budget is not possible. Whether we can talk about the harmonisation of individual items and the balance of the budget also in the light of the Committee's adopted amendments, we can only guess. It is to be expected, however, that, together with the budget rebalancing, we will have on the agenda a recast of the Law on the implementation of the budget. In particular, we are concerned, of course, about the fact that you will find in the budget the funds you provide under this law. In particular, the main solutions to this amendment relate to the establishment of the budget fund, the establishment of an appropriate legal basis for managing those capital investments that are not managed by SDH, the establishment of an exception to the multi-annual commitments that will enable the Ministry of Defence to be equipped in the future with the most important development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the average that belongs to municipalities in accordance with the Law on Community Financing for 2019, which will amount to EUR 573,50, shall be set an annual allowance for pensioners, in the fifth grade and not in the two classes set out in the ZPIZ-2. This will, of course, save about €38 million for the budget. However, at this point, we must stress that this change is different from what you yourself have written in the coalition contract. The novelty's solutions also result in extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, amounting to 1% if the economic growth for 2018 exceeds 3% of the gross domestic product or 1.5% if the economic growth exceeds 4% and 2% if the economic growth exceeds 5%. In particular, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we welcome the change in the 2019 average from the originally projected €558 to €573.5. This is still less than the congregations would have wanted, but the government has reached an agreement with the municipalities, and so we agree with the proposed amendment. As already pointed out in the introduction, we are particularly concerned about the fact that it is not known from which items you will take the funds that are being adopted under this law. We cannot agree to re-taxes, additional burdens on the economy and the citizens, nor can we agree to an additional state debt. Of course, we support on the other hand, as has already been said, raising averages as well as making more funds available to pensioners. For all the things we have been exposed to in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided to abstain from voting this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Marjan Šarc, for whom Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, secretary, distinguished colleague, colleague! Certain circumstances have changed since the entry into force of ZIPRS 2018-2019, and individual laws have been adopted requiring regulation in ZIPRS as well. The ZIPRS proposal takes into account systemic measures that pursue the objectives of the new obligations arising from the release of rights, with an impact on the increase in budget expenditure, which ensure that the Republic of Slovenia follows the fiscal targets to which it is committed even at constitutional level. The new ZIPRS is another step in the direction of the road that citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in all areas have to feel in concrete terms the results of the economic growth that we have seen in recent years. This is important to achieve a balanced growth between capital and the social sphere in order to achieve optimal growth in the gross social product of added value and the overall goal of excellence in the development of our society. We have also looked further at the necessary structural reforms to ensure resilience to the possible cyclical crises of an unpredictable international environment. In the design of ZIPRS, we had in mind the principle that all key social elements must be treated equally while taking into account the commitment to the balance of public finances, which follows the Fiscal Rule Act. First of all, we must point out the proposed measures in the field of social affairs, which are the extraordinary coordination of pensions that await us in the coming year, the higher annual allowance for pensioners and the maternity allowance which will be paid back at 100% next year. During the course of the hearing, we proposed amendments allowing for the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in areas such as children's allowance, state scholarships, reduced payment of kindergartens, subsidies for students and students and invalidity. All of this will be re-coordinated in the first place because we think it is right and because it allows us the state of public finances. In doing so, we follow the principle that the pursuit of fiscal sustainability must be distributed evenly and that savings should not be placed on the shoulders of the most vulnerable. The second set of measures that we want to highlight is the fight against pre-emptiveness, a state that has been stifling mainly the younger generation for some time. To this end, there will be an increase in the number of employees at the Labour Inspectorate persecuting violators of labour law. In addition, budget users will be able to re-employ staff who perform work for them through external operators, but who are of a lasting nature – we are talking mainly about cleaners and security guards who perform hard work for the public sector on a daily basis while living in fear of having paid contributions. We are particularly pleased that after many years we have finally found a language with representatives of local self-government, as the average will increase in line with the agreement reached by representatives of the Government and the municipalities. We are aware of this, however, that the next step must follow in the form of a change in laws that will reduce costs for municipalities on the basis of adopted restructurings. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, we are convinced that there is a balanced and financially sustainable law before us that will successfully steer the budget ship between potential threats and take into account the risks that lie ahead in the coming year. That is why we will support the proposed law in the Group of Members of the Letters of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The text is by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law that, in my opinion, should be the law of a technical nature, not essentially that it is a law, as if we are talking about a budget. But that's the facts, and we've been doing this for years, and then sometimes we're losing this law, which is supposed to be technical, a lot of energy, though. The adoption of the Law on the implementation of the budget is, however, the first concrete legislative step in setting up this existing government's public financial and budgetary policy. After the intense fiscal consolidation that we have witnessed in recent years, the proposal of this law for the first time sets out the outline of the changes in this policy that the current government intends to implement. After more than a decade of austerity measures, we can say that the adoption of this law removes most of the restrictions that have limited public finances spending for years. The proposed amendments and additions to this Act also bring important changes to the budget balance for the coming year, which also have a direct impact on people. After many years of social transfers, the level of social transfers will be automatically coordinated with price increases, restrictions on child allowances and parental protection measures will be removed, which will be directed again to all children, parents and all families. The municipalities will receive more money for their operations, including the amount of the annual pensioner allowance is the content set out in the Annual Budget Implementation Act. This year, too, this pension will be paid at five different levels for my notions of fairer, taking into account the social situation of pensioners. The solutions proposed are also important for solving some of the human resources issues, with some I personally agree with some little less, especially with the Labour Inspectorate, which will strengthen ten new jobs, which I hope these people will continue to pursue too many violations of labour rights. It is also an important legal basis that gives budgetary users the right to work for workers whose work has been transferred to external and agency operators in recent years. Finally, the law also provides a basis for the implementation of the agreement concluded with the public-sector trade unions, which improves the position of public servants, eliminates salary abnormalities and normalises relations between the State as a employer and the public-sector trade unions. In short, the bill before us means the law of many agreements to be concluded by this government of five parties. Regardless of the difficulty of coordination, the diversity of needs and the substantive differences between partners, this shows that the way to agreement is, of course, possible if we are all real and even normal. The ability to agree is what citizens and citizens expect of us. However, by no means, my dears, all of this does not mean that we must forget every precaution and that now is the time to waste, to untie the scrotum and to spend everything that is gathered in our budget for the current consumption. If the past decade has taught us something, it should be a lesson that we also need due diligence in public finances. While it is nice to boast with achievements, additional items for which we will allocate public funds, it will be a key achievement for each responsible government to manage its finances and ensure their stability, as in every normal family. Only in this way will the state retain the ability to act and help those who cannot do so themselves. The dilemma between current consumption and development investments is still not fully resolved. At the principle level, we are all committed not to spend everything on current consumption and to retain something else for reserves, for investing in people, science, infrastructure and solidarity systems. To make all of this a reality, sometimes we have to make difficult decisions, and we are prepared to make these five parties. Because of all of this, we will also support today's law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Janja Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u12	The Government, by amending the law on the implementation of the budget, responds to the additional commitments undertaken by the State for 2019. The adoption is essential for the implementation of the 2019 State budget to start smoothly after the new year. While it is some kind of technical law that monitors the state budget for each year and makes it possible to enforce it. Nevertheless, we would like to draw attention to the need to provide an additional 32 and a half million euros in the state budget in order to agree with the municipalities to raise the averages to 573.50 euros. Although the municipalities will still receive a minimum lower average than those that would be counted by law, much progress has been made in the agreement with the representatives of the municipalities in the light of warnings from the Council of Europe Congress to local communities calling for dialogue with the associations of municipalities, both in terms of funding and in terms of increasing financial autonomy. Expenditure will increase by another 7 million euros due to the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions and an additional 18 million euros will be spent on a higher annual pension allowance. The SMC has already worked in the previous government to improve the situation of the elderly. That is why she is a constructive coalition partner and we support the proposal of the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government to raise the annual allowance, as proposed. As early as 2017, all pensioners who worked full-time had a pension of at least EUR 500 per month. In addition, once again, all pensioners, regardless of the amount of the pension, received an annual allowance. The annual allowance for 2019 is higher by €27 compared to this year. This was higher by €10 compared to 2017. With this measure, the annual allowance of EUR 12 million will even exceed the annual allowance paid to pensioners before the crisis in 2008 and will be 51 million higher than during the worst savings period based on the ZUJF in 2012. In the SMC, we welcome the decision not to include unacceptable measures in the area of family, youth and social policy initially in the novel. As you know, during the crisis and with the adoption of the ZUJF, large cuts have come into family policy. The following two governments have partially abolished austerity measures and now, after six years, all family austerity measures will be abolished from 1 January 2019. The parental and parental benefits will be increased, the parental allowance will be unlimited, the parental allowance will be two and a half times the average salary, the large family allowance will be a universal right again and will be received by all large families, regardless of the income situation, and the State grant price will be higher. In the coalition, we agreed to release the last austerity measures and to take care of vulnerable groups. For this, about 9,000 more state scholarships will be awarded and about 4,000 more supplements will be paid for a large family. Family policy is therefore again recognised as a separate policy and not more than part of social policy and will improve the material situation for families, make it easier to coordinate work and private life and, above all, make it possible for women to have a more equal position compared to men. We will also enable the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in 2019 and the harmonisation of income limits, which are a condition for obtaining and determining the level of public funds rights. This year, the first strategy for the development of NGOs and volunteering was developed and the law defined the status of NGOs and strengthened their importance. A budget fund for the development of non-governmental organisations has been set up to automatically raise funds remaining from the so-called 0.5 income grants. It is said that the resources that people could use for general purposes are not. These funds will henceforth be devoted to funding NGOs. In the SMC, on the basis of the above, we do not agree with certain flat-rate claims that these are austerity measures or restrictive measures, as they remain frozen only to pay off the work performance of public servants agreed with the trade unions. The expenditure will be higher and we will still record the surplus, as reflected in the revision of the decree in the framework of the preparation of the budget. The national budget target balance for 2019 is converted from deficit to surplus of 0,3 %. That is why we support the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! This year's ZIPRS includes a number of positive provisions that contain an agreement that we have formed with the Government in the summer. ZIPRS, for example, provides for the alignment of pensions with economic growth, which will result in higher pensions in the following year. Finally, the number of work inspectors will increase to enable the Labour Inspectorate to better protect workers' rights as the number of infringements from year to year increases. In addition, the ZIPRS provides for an increase in budgetary resources for municipalities, and for the first time, it also includes a provision addressing the problem of outsourced public sector workers engaged in activities with external operators such as security services, labour intervention agencies and the like. These will be able to start employment in the public sector. However, the original ZIPRS proposal, as drafted by the Ministry of Finance, contained two provisions that we could not agree on in Levica. The first envisaged the freezing of the coordination of social transfers, which would mean the continuation of austerity measures on disability, state scholarships, child allowances, unemployment benefits and the like. Another disputed provision was that the Ministry of Defence would receive a blank menu in money for the acquisition of weapons past future budgets, allowing the Minister of Defence to make virtually his own business. Both of the contested provisions were abolished on Monday by the amendment committee and we will therefore support the ZIPRS in Levica. Nevertheless, I would like to point out a few things ahead. In the coming months, it will be necessary to raise pensions more decisively, as some 70,000 pensioners in this country still live below the poverty line. In general, pensioners are one of the most vulnerable groups in the country, often dependent on the assistance of relatives; this is due to the saving decade. It will also be necessary to revise the success of this year's Outsourced Workers Employment Policy in the public sector in the future and to further open the provision. Finally, in the future, ZIPRS will need to consider how to definitively cut through austerity measures in the public sector. Some of them remain in this ZIPRS, but as the argument is stated, I quote that "budget savings require caution due to the increasing pace of economic activity". End of quote. From this we can understand that maintaining partial savings should be necessary due to poor economic prospects. We can't agree with that. Umar, which is generally conservative in its forecasts, predicts 6% of nominal annual growth for 2019. Public finances are in very good shape. From January to October 2018, a surplus of EUR 835 million was accumulated in the public balance sheet. Tax inflows grow at 6 to 7% this year, on the other hand expenditure is only 4% higher. Debt repayment costs will also decrease, the average government debt interest rate has fallen from 3.7% to 2.7% this year and will fall even further in the coming years, as the most expensive bonds adopted in 2013 and 2014 are falling. In short, if we draw the line: economic growth remains large, public financial revenues are rising faster than expenditure, the government's interest on debt is falling and the state is recording the government's surplus. Therefore, there is no reason not to take measures to improve the situation of pensioners more decisively, for young people who seek housing or who do not get a job corresponding to their education. Economic conditions are favourable and the time for renovation is right. If we are talking about reserves, we need to look elsewhere, especially at defence spending and at the fact that we are still a country with one of the lowest effective taxation of capital in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for which is Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 states that it is a technical law. That's a very bad label. This is a slap for the government and, of course, for us, for the National Assembly. Why? Because, technically, we are solving what should be resolved at systemic level with some interventions, such and other agreements and blackmails. Just two cases. For many years, municipalities have not been financed under the Law on the Financing of municipalities, see the opinion of the Court of Auditors in June 2017. For many years we have been working, at least in New Slovenia, to change the pension system in order to make an attractive pension system for those who are now entering the labour market. And that doesn't happen, but through the law we're considering right now, it solves what to get rid of. While the Law on the implementation of the budget raises the average for municipalities from €551 to €573.5, it together provides about €32 million for the municipalities. That's what we welcome. It is true, however, that from 2013 onwards we have actually taken, say and write to the municipalities, about EUR 1 billion. The agreement with the congregations and the increase in the average is welcomed; it is the first hook on our side. The municipalities in Slovenian society are doing invaluable work at local level in order to know the specific problems, for which we also need to allocate adequate financial resources. The provision of funds for their implementation must also be followed by the imposition of new tasks on the municipalities. That is why our objective must remain the early transition through the financing of municipalities, as provided for by the basic law, the Law on the Financing of Communities. Given the economic growth in recent years, it would have been really time to do so. The provisional determination of the method of financing and setting the averages by the Budget Implementation Act is indeed a proposal. The proposal also brings the harmonisation of pensions and a higher annual pension allowance of €27 per pensioner, which is certainly good news. The country will spend around €18 million to increase. The 27 euros, as far as the regression is concerned, will at least make its financial situation a little easier for a number of low-retirement pensioners. However, Nova Slovenija points out that in Slovenia pensions are still far too low for people who have worked hard for them and paid contributions. The ratio between average monthly pensions and monthly salaries has fallen by 9 percentage points in the last nine years. That's what we call rule two nines. In 2008, this ratio was 67.1%, in 2017, 9 years later, and only 58.4%. So 9 percentage points went down. The current pension system is inefficient, unstable and, in view of demographic trends, completely unreliable in the long term. Today, young people do not trust the existing pension system, only rarely do they expect this system to provide them with a pension with which they can enjoy a decent third life. That is why we need a new, more modern pension system, which would include an investment pillar in addition to the flow pillar. This would make investment funds noble and secure higher decent pensions, which will also enable citizens to live a life worth living when they are young. In New Slovenia we have already prepared a new model of the pension system, which will be sustainable in the long term and will provide higher pensions. The patching up of the system of solutions, as brought by this law, which we are currently considering or, for example, the law on the demographic fund, cannot significantly improve pensions. We hope that the government will listen to our warnings and modernise the system, taking into account the demographic forecasts that you want to, you do not want to, they are already unrelentingly implementing and as the European Commission and the AMF warns us. We remain critical until we increase the number of employees in the Ministry and Inspectorate. We believe that the objectives set could be achieved by reorganising work and already existing jobs. In New Slovenia, however, we are pleased that the coalition has followed our warnings, which we repeated several times in the National Assembly, and in the general public and in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget excluded the freezing of the coordination of transfers, such as children's, parents' and invalids' allowances, allowances for large families, livestock and so on. It would not be appropriate for the country to continue saving in families, children and persons with disabilities, with so much increase in budgetary revenues on the one hand and an increase in budgetary expenditure on the other. Since the amendment of the law brings some positive changes, and since the law excludes the freezing of family and disability transfers, we will not oppose the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, for her Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia is one of the more important documents that we accept in this country every year. Although it is primarily an instrument that enables the implementation of the budget, it always brings with it important substantive emphasis. Let me touch some of them, too. Some solutions that touch social policy are important for people. With the new year, children’s allowances and scholarships will be fully released, which would amount to 9,000 additional scholarships. The large family allowance will become a universal right and will no longer be bound to censorship. In this way, an additional 4,000 families would gain the supplement. The maternity benefits will no longer be limited to two times the average wage, but will be back on a two-and-a-half basis and the maternity allowance will be 100 percent and no longer at 90 percent. After six years, such savings in social transfers ended, which we have been working together for all the parties to this coalition, but perhaps not just the Left, as we may have heard before. I hope they also hear these things from the opposition, where they often stress the importance of appropriate family policies. However, those who make up the coalition are of course aware of the responsibilities of governance, and we fully understand that due to the new commitments it introduces, the revenue and expenditure must be properly balanced. At the same time, we agree that it would not be appropriate for family policy to be the one to bear this burden. In the light of the recently signed expert agreement in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we believe that the measure which prolongs the restrictions on the payment of work performance on the basis of the increased level of work of public servants is, however, fairer. By raising the averages, the congregations will also be pleased. It should be borne in mind that the average is the intended revenue for managing the statutory tasks. Since municipalities are underfunded by the State budget, they are forced to use funds for investment. This is not only negative at the level of the municipalities, but also at the level of the whole country. For many years, local communities have been alerting the gap between the costs incurred on the basis of legal obligations and their real costs. This gap has brought them back into difficult and unenviable situations each year, and the fact that larger municipalities bear a disproportionate burden to pay and only receive an average compensation for their settlement. Of course, a higher average will not solve all these problems, but we are convinced that it means a positive shift in the right direction. I would briefly touch on the budget fund to finance the development of non-governmental organisations. This is also a proposal that we welcome in our party, and the fact is that such organisations are too large and will need to develop a system that will systematically, transparently and fairly regulate the area of allocation of funds so that funds do not become too fragmented and that unnecessary payment complications will not occur. I would also mention a solution that represents an important step by the Government in preventing criminal employment and a solution that allows greater control over those who carry out such jobs and use them in practice. Of course, Alenka Bratusek is unable to pass through the area of pensions. In the previous term, when our party was in opposition, most people turned to us with exactly two problems — too low pensions and too long waiting lines in health care. In the Alenka Bratušek Party, we have therefore made three demands at the time of entering the coalition concerning pensions: to raise the percentage that brings new injustices and problems in the future, the pensioners should be allowed to work, to those who can and want it, to regress, which in any case represents a social correction, and we all know that in 2019 it should be paid as it was before the crisis, at two altitudes instead of five. As we have repeatedly stressed, if the crisis is over, it must be over for all, including pensioners. In times of crisis, it was those who pressed their teeth to help end the crisis. Now it's time for them to get back to what they've been doing for years. According to the law before us, however, more money is earmarked for the regression, but still less than the coalition agreement is envisaged, and it is measured at five levels. At Alenka Bratušek, we have invested a lot of effort and energy in order to fulfil the commitments we have made to the electorate as soon as possible with regard to the start of the implementation of the measures. At the same time, as constructive partners of this coalition, we have listened to arguments concerning the adoption of the CAPRS this time. With regard to all three points, both the Government and the coalition partners assured us that these things would be settled as soon as possible. Secretary of State Tillen Bozič said last week in the National Assembly that this issue, which will be fully resolved by the Government, will begin in the first half of next year. We have also received the same assurances from the coalition member and other representatives of the government, and we are confident that we will all respect this together. So let me conclude that Alenka Bratušek will also support this time the law on the implementation of the budget, which has a number of important points that are very useful to people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Desus Group, Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The budget as a way of financing projects and the common public good is primarily a responsible decision on what is planned and what is advocated for. A stable scale and predictable consumption structure require caution in addressing excessive generalisations and restraint in oversimplification. The law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a necessary and direct condition for its implementation, according to the legal nature of the state budget. The budget for 2019 was adopted on 16 November 2017, and the Law on the implementation of the budget for 2018 and 2019, which is now being amended, was adopted. What are the most important changes that will have financial implications in the 2019 budget? By value and quantity, the maximum is certainly the limitation of the legal obligation by freezing the payment of regular work performance and the increased volume of work to public servants and officials. This will make it possible to reduce the expenditure of the state budget of €60 million and the country's wider size of €100 million. In the Desus Group, we expect that these items will no longer be frozen in 2020, as this could have a disstimulating effect on public sector productivity. We must not overlook their motivational function. After several years of unilateral determination of the average amount to finance the statutory tasks of the municipalities, progress was made this time. The average of EUR 573,50 is set by agreement as a result of the agreement between the Government and the representative associations of the municipalities. It is higher than originally foreseen by €15.50. This is a compromise for which it is not too exciting, why the real average should be €609. Thus, the principle of proportionality of resources with the scope of the tasks is not met at present. But a good purpose has been accomplished, and this is most important. The past use of methodological tricks in the formula for calculating the average has proved to be completely wrong and to the institutions of local self-government has only caused damage. It is essential for Desus to provide for exceptional coordination of pensions in view of the economic growth achieved in 2018. We have also reached the composition of the new government to coordinate pensions in the coming year. In addition to the regular coordination of pensions of 2.8%, co-ordination of 1.5% will continue to be exceptional as economic growth will exceed 4% of GDP in 2018. It is also of great importance for Desus to maintain the five-grade annual pension allowance scale because it allows the highest amount of the annual allowance to be received to pensioners with the lowest pensions. The initial government proposal on non-alignment of transfers to individuals and households has changed the coalition by further negotiating and amending its parent labour body. All such transfers will also be coordinated in 2019. The aim of the law is to legalise solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget of the State and the budgets of the municipalities in 2019 and that is why we will support it in the Desus Group. We do know, however, that this targeted budget will require a rebalance due to the state and priorities of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The last member group, the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor for her Victory Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u22	Nice hello to you all! This budget for 2018 and 2019 is actually a correction of the mistakes of the former Cerara government, because the budget should already be well done at the starting point so that these corrections would not be necessary. Current economic growth shows that it will develop well, but cracks are already showing up with a decline in economic growth. I think that Umar is overreacting by giving us 4% of economic growth in the next year and the matter will break. Germany is preparing to spar and we will have to think about it. Not only will I be shimmying, it is a fact that in many ways this budget or this document is not so bad. The end of the scholarship will be paid, maternity benefits will go away, a lot for large families will be good. The pensioners will get more, but that's not enough. This is generally an irregular system of pensions in Slovenia. We should do it here. But Cerar didn't do anything here. True, the current government can't do that in a few months, though. As far as the congregations are concerned, they will also receive some change, but this is where the matter will need to be systematically corrected. I am waiting for the current government to take a systematic approach to solving these problems. One thing bothers me, namely, new employment. For example, they will employ 10 people at the Ministry of Environment and Space to address climate change. Explain to me what these people will look at: they will look up into the sky, and they will blow up, just as there is at the Ball of Marogica, that the clouds will be scattered and so on. That doesn't make sense. Cerar has hired 11,000 new people in his public administration segment. Couldn't we find 10 of those 11,000 who could blow into the clouds? Also at the Inspectorate; 10 new jobs at the Labour Inspectorate. Wouldn't it be better to set up a tax system so that people can work in peace and not be afraid when the door opens and someone comes with a dim view — her, the inspector has come where he's going to hit us again? For as usual, where the inspectors come, they come not to control, to counsel, but to beat him that works, and to take away the little that he earns. On the other hand, we are opening up €6 million to establish a new budget fund for NGOs. Slovenia has 27 thousand 789 NGOs and the funds received by these NGOs amount to almost EUR 338 million; they will now be given further. Firefighters belong here, and it's only right that firefighters get it. But what is the problem with NGOs? These NGOs are largely private companies of certain people who set up NGOs to serve at the expense of the government because they give them money. So the issue of non-governmentalism is very funny. All of this is run by the Center of NGOs of Slovenia, which is, as I know, a private institution run by the FDV and the Faculty of Philosophy. More specifically, the Director is Goran Forbici, and the President of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is Mrs Tina Divac, who is his partner, to promote the development of volunteerism. How's it going together? You think about what's in the back and where these funds are going. I'm nobody shivering and I think you should shiver. Maybe some time later, but I'm sure that's the task of this, the current government. We will not oppose the law because, despite everything, it has something good to do, but it is necessary to correct enough to fear that this government will succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that's a second-hand proposal for a law amending the minimum wage law. The draft law was tabled by a group of 52 Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Mesec. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Luke Mescu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u24	Dear Members, Members, Workers and Workers! We're raising minimum wage today. It's the biggest rise in the last eight years or two of the biggest lifts in the last eight years. 70 000 of the worst paid workers will be up to €667 in two weeks and more than 120 000 people with the worst salaries in this country under €700 a month will receive a raise in one year. This, we can say, ends the period in which the answer to capital policies and representatives, when the time is right for higher wages, to improve the social situation, to higher pensions, again and again: Not yet, let's wait a little longer. Or: We agree with the goal, but the path is not the right one. Today we cut it off, today we respond as they said in Spain yesterday – a rich country must not have poor workers. Before the elections, I promised that we would do everything in Levica so that the current economic period of growth would not be wasted on capital relief, as was the previous one between 2005 and 2008. To do everything we can to ensure that growth is no longer reflected solely in business balance sheets and growing profits, so that it will finally be passed on to the well-being of all and not just a handful. In the summer we decided to partner with the government of Marjan Šarc in Levika, because we saw the potential for this to happen. Today I can say that this autumn together we have taken three major steps in the right direction, to eradicate poverty and to improve the well-being of all. The first step is to maintain the rise in social assistance that we have voted on by Members and Members of Parliament in May. Indeed, even after the new year, they will remain on 392 euros a month, 100 euros more than before. Secondly, in the previous part of this meeting, we adopted the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which finally terminated, after a decade, by saving on disability, scholarships, veteran allowances, child allowances, unemployment benefits and other social transfers. The last and most important step of this government in the autumn is the minimum wage. This will finally cool off the threshold of risk poverty. In 2008, after the right-wing government had wasted the period of economic growth, the minimum wage was EUR 450; thus, it was EUR 100 under the then minimum cost of living. Today, on the contrary, we are adopting a law which, for the first time, will raise to EUR 700, secondly, stipulates that all allowances, such as a work-life allowance, will have to be added to work and business performance, but not counted, and thirdly, that minimum wages must always be at least 20 per cent higher than the minimum cost of living. This is a legal guarantee that no one else who works will fall into poverty. In short, in partnership with the Government in Levica, we have managed to make three major moves in the last three months to improve the situation of the worst-paid, the poorest and the most vulnerable. To do what is right, experience from abroad also shows. For not only graphs, GDP measurements or OECD estimates count quality of life, they count people's experiences. In France, they have a president who is fascinated by the economic chambers. These lower taxes on businesses and the rich and cut public sector and the streets burn. On the contrary, we can say that for the last three months we have successfully walked away from two policies that destroy Europe — neoliberalism and the new fascisms that are its result. We started putting the right answer to both of them. The state has begun to give people clear signs that it will no longer be just a girl of capital, but work for the well-being of all. Let's just get this over with. In the coming year, we must continue to correct the injustices of pensioners, pensioners, those who cannot afford high housing prices, or those who are too educated to get jobs. There is too much knowledge and potential in this country to continue to assume that we can only compete with low wages and low taxes. The neoliberal French-German train finally wiped out its yellow vests. Let Slovenia become an example to the European countries looking for a new social model for the 21st century, so that prosperity for all, not just for the sand, becomes a leader of a new Europe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much! The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Vojk Starović for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that! Your Honor! At its 8th urgent meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Minimum Wages, submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Luke Mesec. At its 15th extraordinary meeting, on 29 November 2018, the National Assembly adopted a conclusion that the draft law was appropriate for further consideration. A representative of the proposer, representatives of the Government, representatives of employers, chambers, representatives of trade unions and other representatives of civil society or the non-governmental sector participated in the work of the committee. The Committee was provided with a number of materials, including various comments, opinions and proposals from the Chambers and Trade Unions on non-support or support for the proposal for a law, as well as the position of the national NGO advocacy centre supporting the bill. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments. The Committee has also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the bill's proposal, especially as a safeguard to keep the minimum wage above the level of living costs, which will also reduce the pressure on social policy. In its opinion, the government supports the objectives of the proposed amendments to the law, but at the same time advocates a transitional period, as a sudden jump could pose a problem in adapting the economy. The amendments, which were prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, were tabled by the leftist Group and the two amendments were also tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. After the discussion, the Committee also adopted all the amendments. The representative of the applicants briefly presented the draft law in the introductory explanation, and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that some of their comments were taken into account with the amendments. At the time of the presentation of the opinions and views of the professional and interested public, the representatives of the employees expressed their support for the bill and pointed out for several years the continuing unwillingness of the employer to agree. A social security guard to determine the minimum wage should allow no one who is employed for full-time employment to live below the poverty threshold. On the other hand, employers have warned that raising minimum wages will put competitiveness at risk in some sectors of the economy, put jobs at risk and that some companies will not be able to survive on the market because of the rise in labour costs. The debate stressed that the future of the country is not in the low-paid workforce, but companies should be prepared to invest in workers. Pay is not the main motivator, but it can be the main demotivator. All workers should be paid with dignity for the work they do. It is necessary to create conditions for guidance in an innovative economy, to stop brain drain and to escape workers abroad. There's a lack of social dialogue. In the future, all actors should make much more effort, because despite the changes in the legislation for the agreement, there is still room for much room. The question was also raised why we do not help the poor with other possible measures such as lower wage taxation, lowering the criteria for child allowances and the like, since setting such a high minimum wage could lead to pay imbalances. With regard to the elimination of all allowances – working time, difficult working conditions, part of the salary for performance and payment for business performance – the definition of minimum wage was agreed by the discussers that this was appropriate, but they also expressed concern about the effects. Older workers with a high working age allowance will thus be more difficult to employ. The arguments that raising the minimum wage will result in the closure of certain companies require further reflection in the direction of different management and direction of the business policy of such undertakings. There are many open questions that just raising minimum wage will not solve. The debaters were of the opinion that the increase in minimum wage would not jeopardise the economy and pointed out that social dialogue in Slovenia is too weak. It is not good that politics must interfere with the minimum wage, as the economy should only regulate it. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them unanimously, 11 against 0. In view of the adoption of the amendment, a further proposal is also being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 15th extraordinary meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that's the first defence proposal for a law amending the act on the recovery of damage to persons who have been removed from the permanent residence register. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members of Parliament, with their first signed Branet Golubovic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u28	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to you for consideration a proposal for amendments to the Act on the Reparation of Damage to persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations as a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, I must point out that I myself took note of this issue when I took up my duties as Minister of the Interior in September. Since the chronology of the matter is long and legally very complex, let me begin by stressing the most crucial events in this matter. In July 2006, 11 complainants who were deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations in Slovenia filed a complaint with the European Court of Human Rights for violations of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In the Kurić case and others v Slovenia, the European Court of Human Rights assessed whether the rights protected by the Convention had been violated by the complainants because of the removal from the register of permanent residents. That is, whether they have been violated by the right referred to in Article 8, that is the right to respect private and family life, as set out in Article 13, that is the right to an effective remedy, and the right provided for in Article 14, which prohibits discrimination. The Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights shall be 26. 6. 2012 issued a pilot judgment and Slovenia ordered that within one year it adopt a system of compensation for all persons who come under consideration as victims of the behaviour of Slovenia. In doing so, the Grand Chamber itself awarded compensation for the non-profit damage to the six complainants, each of whom EUR 20,000, and further ruled that Slovenia must pay compensation for property damage to the six complainants within three months. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall meet on 21. 11. 2013 passed the Compensation Act to persons who were deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations which entered into force 18. 12. In 2013, the application started at 18. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In March this year, the Constitutional Court ruled on the non-constitutionality of Article 12 of the Compensation Act. This Article limited the amount of monetary compensation which may be fixed to the beneficiary in a judicial procedure. By that decision of the Constitutional Court, the legislator is also given the opportunity to grant within a period of 9 months which expires 13. 1. 2019, adopts a new legal arrangement to otherwise settle the financial compensation for damages caused by the deletion provided for to the beneficiaries in the proceedings. In June this year, the previous Government appointed an Inter-Resort Working Group to prepare proposals for possible solutions for the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, which has drawn up four basic solutions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is then 3. 12. 2018 addressed and defined the text of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Reparation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. This amendment of the law will remove the limitation on the amount of the monetary compensation provided for in Article 12 and will re-arrange the interest fixed by the beneficiaries in the proceedings. You have before you a proposal for a law under which beneficiaries will be entitled to payment of the entire principal for damages found in the proceedings. However, the limited interest that could be fixed for beneficiaries in the proceedings will be limited to the principal amount, as this is justified by the state and sustainability of the budget. According to the State's Attorney's Office, the amount of 339 lawsuits amounts to approximately EUR 26 million, and interest to the principal is once again as much as a total of some less than EUR 52 million. The beneficiaries may, however, increase their claims by the end of the main hearing. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In preparing the legislative solution that I have just presented, we have come from three basic positions in the Government, which are crucial in this matter: that the solution must be sustainable for our budget, that we must respect the Constitutional Court's decision and enforce it in order that the issue of the deleted should be resolved in a definitive manner. I would also like this to lead today's debates and final decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, to Nina Maurovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! The Government has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Compensation Act to persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations, the aim of which is to ensure that the Republic of Slovenia manages the issue of so-called deleted for years once and for all. A concrete proposal to harmonise payment schemes for persons who have submitted claims for reimbursement before and after the application of the law in question. In 2013, the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Act on the Compensation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. This provision in Article 12 provides that the total amount of monetary compensation for the damage caused by the removal from the register of permanent residents which may be determined in a judicial procedure, together with legal late payments, shall be limited to three times the amount of monetary compensation that may be fixed to the beneficiary in the administrative procedure. In March this year, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia partially annulled this provision as it was considered that Article 12 dealt unequally with persons who filed claims for damages prior to the entry into force of the law, the so-called first group of injured persons, and the persons who applied after the law was enforced, the so-called second group of injured persons. Thus, it decided that Article 12 did not apply to persons of another group of injured persons, i.e. those who applied for monetary compensation after the law had been enforced, as it was considered that the legal situation had deteriorated to the persons concerned. Those persons expected the right to compensation under Article 26 of the Constitution and, on the other hand, the legislator changed the conditions during the course of the proceedings. By 14 January 2019, the Constitutional Court allowed the legislator to adopt measures or new legislation for the so-called second group of injured persons. If the legislator fails to take appropriate measures, Article 12 of the Act in question will no longer apply to those persons and will be treated in the same way as those of the so-called first group of injured persons. The new Act on Compensation for Damage to Persons Exploited from the Register of Permanent Populations, proposed by the Government this time, amends Article 12 of the Act in order to eliminate the limits of three times the amount of monetary compensation, together with the statutory interest. The proposal no longer limits the amount of compensation. However, the amount of late interest is limited according to the height of the principal. The amendment does not apply to persons who have filed claims for damages prior to the law, so-called first group of injured persons. The original legal provision restricting the claim for compensation has, in the view of the applicant, resorted to their already acquired right to full compensation and has thus retroactively intervened in their legal situation. By approving the proposal, the flat-rate treatment of the injured persons shall be eliminated and treated individually and determined on the basis of the proposal the amount of compensation shall also be determined. The consequences of rejecting the proposed amended Article 12 would constitute an unsustainable burden on the public financial system, as the late interest on property and intangible damage could several times exceed the value of the principal. In the sincere hope that after more than a decade, the country will properly address this issue, we will also support the proposal of the new law in the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the case of Kurić, the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights and the second Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, in 2012, adopted a pilot judgment in respect of the compensation paid to persons removed from the Register of Permanent Populations and ordered Slovenia to adopt, within one year, a system of compensation for all persons taken into account as victims of the conduct of the Republic of Slovenia. The Grand Chamber pointed out that the complainants, who were also granted a residence permit with their residence permit in force in the Republic of Slovenia, did not receive any compensation for the damage caused by the disappearance. The judgment also states that according to the current situation, the possibility of obtaining compensation in the Republic of Slovenia in a fair trial before a court or in the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia is still very small. The reason for this situation is systemic in our country's lack of legal order, which denies the entire group the right to compensation for infringement of their fundamental rights. Following the execution of the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights by law, the Republic of Slovenia had to establish a compensation scheme and systematically arrange for damages to be reimbursed to those whose fundamental human rights had been violated in order to erase them. On the basis of the above, the Act on the Reparation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent residence was adopted at the National Assembly in November 2013. The bill was supported by the Social Democrats and the coalition partners and complemented by them during the adoption process. However, it is important to say here that we have adopted this law after the deadline set by the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights. Also because on the side of another government, a minister, there was no lack of understanding or willingness to regulate this stain of our country. At the time of the adoption of the law on the correction of injustices, we were aware by the Social Democrats that the legal solution would not be adopted with open hands and that we might still have a debate on the subject. Even more; already in March 2014 the Association of the Deleted People of Slovenia sent an initiative to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the law. The Constitutional Court has ruled that Article 12 in relation to Article 28(1) of the Act on the Compensation of Damage to Persons Exploited from the Register of Permanent Populations shall be repealed if it relates to injured persons who have filed claims against the State before the application of this Act and whose claims have not been outdated until then and that Article 12 of the Act under appeal to the extent not covered by the preceding paragraph shall also be repealed. The statement referred to in both points shall take effect nine months after the publication of the decision in the Official Journal. This deadline expires in mid-January of the following year, more precisely on 13 January 2019. Thus, we have before us an amendment to the Law on the Reparation of Damage to Persons Exploited from the Register of Permanent Residence, in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision of 15. 3. 2018 arranges for financial compensation for damage caused by the deletion from the Register of Permanent Populations to be determined to the beneficiaries in the proceedings. Article 12 of this Act, as amended, thus removes the limitation on the amount of monetary compensation and the late interest is fixed to beneficiaries in the main proceedings, but is limited to the level of the principal. The proposer refers this solution to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which assessed the limitation of late interest and took the view that the restriction is not inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Social Democrats will conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration, but we want to say something more. The story of deleted dates back to February 1992. The former President of the Constitutional Court, Dr Dragica Wedam Lukić, said, quote, “the deletion was not completed, the state acted systematically”. And in fact, this is the sad essence of this problem, which is already dragging on practically the entire period of our country. This despite the fact that, in the context of the self-sustainment processes and the then government, when adopting self-sustaining legislation in these areas, the Assembly at that time ensured that the content of the legislation would in no way worsen the situation for individuals and would preserve the status they had. This is also stated in the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. “The Republic of Slovenia shall ensure the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms to all persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of their nationality, without any discrimination, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and its existing international treaties.” Yes, this is recorded in the first paragraph of the third section of the chapter of the Basic Constitutional Charter. Although deleted in our magnetograms, millions of words written by Members and Members, as well as at extraordinary, regular meetings of the home work bodies, as well as of the National Assembly, have remained unresolved in addressing laws, constitutional laws, interpellations to ministers and ministers, with demands for referendums and so on – the shadow of the self-sustainment processes. We social democrats have worked hard all the time to resolve the situation of those who have been wiped out, and we have been attacked all the time to defend the wrong people, the wrong individuals. Your Honor! Let not our motive today be a misunderstanding of the issue as it has been all day, but perhaps a shame that the country has not settled this issue before. May the first motives be humanity and understanding, and above all the moral obligation to be able, once and for all, to build up true courage and eliminate injustices to those who have been erased. Guilts that should not happen, even less, which is even more important for us in this place, to continue, ignore or diminish their meaning. Let us gather this courage today and support this law. This is not our duty, but it is our moral obligation and responsibility not only to the deleted but also to our citizens and citizens, also to the future nations, which we must give them the opportunity to learn from our mistakes, and above all to be able to admit and eliminate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The text is given by the SMC Group, for which Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u34	Hello! It's a topic where you always get sad. Regrettably, because it is increasingly evident that some still want to trade or even boast about the subject, who has done or has not done anything to prevent it from happening or even happening. Two mandates ago, we had a gruesome debate in this National Assembly on how to correct the injustices that have taken place, the Minister, not in 2006, but in 1992, and the historical memory must be cut back every time this topic opens up from the beginning. From the beginning, to make it easier for us to understand what we are talking about at all, especially because there are two thirds of Members sitting in this House who have never dealt with this issue. These are the facts. Hence, they may find it more difficult to understand, or they may not understand, why we should even talk about it. The fact is, in 1992, someone consciously, as my predecessor said in her position, when she quoted a former constitutional judge, knowingly and deliberately, systematically wiped out 25,000 people, about 25,000 people, from the register, and put them into the so-called situation of the famous movie Nikogarsk Land. Only with the difference that this film was made and most people even laughed at this tragic story, and these people were no longer on earth, but they were somewhere between heaven and earth because they no longer existed. Even in the last debate, which was held in the National Assembly when we adopted this law, there were advocates and even individual Members who claimed that this was a so-called justifiable deletion. These were words that were horrifying to hear, but only to understand and experience, which were really experienced by only people who had actually been erased. What is more important than that is that I regret that, when we have passed the law and this law has also commented both on the ECHR and on the Council of Europe that it has been satisfactorily regulated, the Constitutional Court has decided and opened the question that has actually put these same deleted into an unequal position. Which means he's reopened a story that just needs to be settled. The price for what we are paying, of course, is paid by all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and at least by those who have done so. At least! And the least they deserve is to talk about this subject at all, because it would be better if we just kept quiet. Especially since no one has even apologized to these people to this day. All we talk about is money and how terribly expensive it is for citizens. In fact, there was a genocide, whether someone likes it or not, but in a modern, electronic way: I wipe you out! In SMC with such stories we will not trade in the past, not now, not in the future, nor do we intend to compete. We will accept the Government's proposals and only piously can we hope that this is a topic that we will no longer discuss. However, given the College's decision, because some have wanted to discuss this for longer and more times, unfortunately, we will be forced to talk again and again about this subject. That's more in the debate. We'll back it up in SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The 26th of February next year will be 27 years, since the Slovenian history is probably one of the darkest shadows. 27 years from when, as we have already heard, 25 000,671 people have been removed from the Register of Permanent Populations consciously and in particular. Literally erased! She denied their existence, that's what she did. After this unconstitutional inadmissible event, it took 21 years — 21 years! – to allow deleted persons to recover compensation from the State and not in the way they should. In the first 21 years since the era, everything else has happened, except for finding solutions to correct these injustices that have occurred. Those who ordered and performed the deletion wanted to avoid it in every way, even by constitutional law. Today, however, there are some in this hall, some who have been guilty of a crime, but of course no one has ever responded and paid even less. On what to do with deleted persons, the state has repeatedly demanded even a referendum. The discussion that followed all this was very similar to what we are monitoring today when we are talking about refugees or migrants. From labelling for, quote, “embroidery, invaders, aggressors and so on” – better to stop at this point – until sending on trains and similar things. At the referendum, the right hand even wanted to take their citizenship. The fact that they were deleted once was not enough for them; they were deleted the second time. On the other hand, there was no interest in finding solutions for the correction of wrongs committed. At that time we could still talk about the correction of injustices, and today we can only talk about appropriate compensation for all the woes that the country has caused them. The first decision of the Constitutional Court was therefore not sufficient, nor was it supported by calls from the public, professions, foreign and domestic organisations for the protection of human rights, nor were protests, calls and cries for the assistance of those who simply ceased to exist for the country on 26 February 1992. Only after Slovenia had been convicted before the European Court of Human Rights has it begun to consider that something has to be done, first and foremost because of the desire to limit the financial consequences that the country could have, and not so much because of the manifest desire to have the status definitively regulated and the granting of the corresponding compensation. How did Minister Gregor Virant in the then government of Alenka Bratusek address this issue? So today we have several categories deleted. Not only that; almost twenty - seven years later, we still have people living among us who couldn’t even settle their status, let alone be entitled to compensation. On 26 February 1992, 25 000 671 persons were deleted from the population register. The 2013 law only refers to 12,000 people, that is, a poor half. It is already a well-known manoeuvre with which the state saves in a wide range of areas. Let us first give people the rights that belong to them, but let us make the way for them in such a way that they can actually be exercised by a small group of people. Of these 12 thousand beneficiaries, 18 thousand 175 submitted claims for the first part of the compensation, which was established in the form of a shamefully low rent. The positive solution was only 5,000,791, and the circle was shrinking. This 5 000 791 could then require another part of the compensation in the proceedings. Since the procedure is complex, long-term and, of course, expensive, this step has been decided by few beneficiaries and the law that we are considering today concerns precisely this part. The Constitutional Court found that the limitation on the amount of compensation was unconstitutional. In addition to the policy, the Constitutional Court, by this decision, has classified the deleted category into two categories; for one category, the amount of compensation has been abolished and for the other, a nine-month transitional period has been fixed. This period expires on 14 January and, of course, the Government would also like to save some money in this part, so instead of limiting the amount of compensation it proposes to limit the amount of late interest. So today we're only talking about 339 people. 339 of all 25 000 671 persons who have been erased. If you want, just over 1.3 percent of all deleted. After 27 years of shame, we thus have rather than comprehensive solutions, consistent redress of injustices and the determination of appropriate compensation for several categories of deleted. We have those who have lost their status and those who have had a chance to settle their status. We have those who may have claimed compensation in the administrative procedure and those who have not been defined by law as beneficiaries. We have those who have had enough money and will to demand from the country a second part of the compensation before the court, and those who simply could not afford it. We have those who filed the lawsuits before 2013, and those who filed them after 2013. And finally, those who were awarded compensation before the Constitutional Court's decision and those who were later granted compensation. Today's law will add another additional distinction. Those who have managed to get through the last obstacle before appropriate compensation will be divided into those who will be awarded compensation without limitation and those who will be awarded compensation with limited legal interest. Thus, instead of eliminating injustices, we are creating new ones by means of today’s law. We're not going to support this marriage in the Left. As far as these 339 applications are concerned, we believe that the law would only be justified in one case if it wished to provide compensation without limitation of the amount before the expiry of the period laid down by the Constitutional Court. As this period expires on 14 January, it is almost too late for such a solution. Any additional savings in the account deleted is unacceptable to us. Remember, late interest is so high exclusively and only because the state has failed to perform its basic duty. The erasure did not just happen; it was a deliberate and deliberate crime of the then policy and of all the policies of the last 27 years that did not take responsibility for it. In view of all these facts, it is clear that in these 27 years, instead of solving or trying to resolve the situation and status of the deleted, we have created new and new injustices. Some of these injustices fall into both the 2013 law and today's novel. In view of the warnings about other disputed provisions of the law, however, the fear is that the crime committed by the authorities in those days is not discussed for the last time, certainly justified. In Levica, we believe that if we want to hear at least part of the right, as we have heard today by the Government and the coalition Members, it is best that this law is not adopted, that it is allowed to expire and that, in fact, Article 12 is repealed only after a decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for her Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u38	Dear President, honourable Members, distinguished Minister! In Novi Slovenija we did not support the adoption of the Damage Recovery Act for persons who were deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations at the end of 2013. Not because we do not wish to comply with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which found that, due to systemic shortcomings, all those who have been deleted could not be compensated. The reason was an inappropriate and harmful solution for the state of Slovenia and, in particular, for the Slovenian budget. Today, our position is the same, the law is contrary to the rules of compensation that are regulated by the Bond Code. It is the exclusion of rules on the individual treatment of each individual case of deletion, the grounds for deletion, and also the rules on possible shared liability. We are convinced that a number of deleted persons are involved in cases where such persons have caused harm by their conduct or omission. For the law gives the right to compensation to each of the deleted, regardless of his or her interest and his or her efforts to properly regulate his or her status in a timely manner. Let us repeat, many who were erased at the time of Slovenia's independence even left and lived in one of the republics of the former Yugoslavia and returned to Slovenia only when they found out about the possibility of compensation and only for that purpose applied for the regulation of their status. Such a solution is unfair to those so-called deleted who, after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, respected our legal order and settled their status: whether they have applied for the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia or have settled their foreign status. The then Minister Gregor Virant explained that the circle of beneficiaries was well thought out, unfortunately this is not true. In other words, the compensation belongs to all those who have acquired status on any legal basis and without determining the actual situation, why an individual has been erased from his place of residence at that time and what specific activities he has taken to settle his status in the Republic of Slovenia. However, it is essential, in our view, that compensation be paid to those persons who are actually entitled to it. Today's amendment to this law only entails the enforcement of the Constitutional Court's decision, which in March this year found that the limitation of the amount of monetary compensation may be imposed on the beneficiary in the property and non-proprietary proceedings. These are beneficiaries who have submitted applications after the application of the law has started. For the government had been available for nine months to change the law. She didn't do this homework in time. Nor would the urgent procedure of five before 12 have abolished, on the basis of a mistaken concept of law based on the recognition of flat-rate compensation for all deleted persons, irrespective of the reason why an individual has not settled his status within the prescribed time limit. In New Slovenia, we are also today defending the position that the state should settle the injustices and pay the damages, but only those who have not been able to settle their status without their guilt and not those who have already rejected Slovenia as a country. These facts, however, should be identified for each individual in the individual compensation procedure. We will not oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is given by Andrej Šushmelj, Party Group Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u40	Your Honor! The story of deleted is one of the saddest stories of our young country for two reasons. For the first time because of the act itself, the second half is unfortunately the time needed to save, and the story is still almost 30 years away. The 30th anniversary is about to be deleted, and the fact is that some have been wronged seriously, so that the removal of persons from the permanent population register was without legal basis, as the Constitutional Court found in 1999 already. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties, Alenka Bratušek believes that this chapter should be successfully completed and settled as soon as possible. The 10 deleted in 2006 also sought justice at the European Court of Human Rights, which issued a pilot judgment in 2012 which found that the complainants had been violated their rights and fundamental freedoms. In 2013, the Grand Chamber ordered the Republic of Slovenia to adopt within one year a system of compensation for all persons affected by the conduct of the State. Well, in 2013, a law was adopted to settle damages for the deleted and thereby remedy human rights violations. The law regulates the right to monetary compensation of beneficiaries and the right to other forms of fair compensation. At that time, the European Court of Human Rights also assessed that the Republic of Slovenia had complied with the requirements of the pilot judgment and had resolved the case appropriately at national level. Pursuant to that law, which entered into force in 2014, beneficiaries have the opportunity to claim compensation in administrative or judicial proceedings. The amount of cash compensation in the proceedings was limited by the law to three times the amount of cash compensation that may be determined in the administrative procedure. In the view of the Government at that time, the limitation of the amount of monetary compensation was necessary, appropriate and proportionate in view of the financial situation and capacity of the Republic of Slovenia at that time. The payment of compensation could jeopardise the provision of rights to other citizens, particularly in the social field. This is what we believe in today’s Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek – especially among colleagues and colleagues from the Left – that they cannot be completely erased from the rights of other citizens, in particular social rights. However, the Constitutional Court ruled in March this year that Article 12 of the Law on the Reparation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations imposed on the unconstitutional and legislator, within nine months, to adopt a new legal regime. Well, this deadline will expire in January, and it is therefore essential that we finally regulate this story properly within this time frame. The proposed arrangement removes the limit on the amount of monetary compensation and will allow for an individual assessment of each individual claim. This means that the beneficiaries will also have to prove the existence and extent of the damage and the causal link between the alleged infringement and the injury caused, on a case-by-case basis. Thus, it is possible that some complainants will fail with their claims before the courts. However, this bill redefines the limitation of late marriage interest. In one of its decisions, the Constitutional Court held that the restriction of late interest itself is not contrary to the Constitution. In our Group of Members, we believe that the abolition of the limitation of the amount of monetary compensation will satisfy the right. Of course, we agree with the limitation of the statutory late interest, because their value could increase significantly and could also mean a €53 million budget burden. Even now, five years later, the financial situation of our country is not pink. In addition to the right of individuals to reparation, public interest must be weighed and a balance found. In the view of the applicant, the late interest rate could exceed the principal several times and this would have an impact on the financial capacity of the State. The current assessment of requests for removal of the limit is therefore somewhat more than €53 million and, if we do not take account of the interest limit, this amount may go up upside down, which would be irresponsible for the other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In our view, the restriction on interest is a measure that is urgently needed to avoid jeopardising other human rights which the State is obliged to guarantee to its citizens. The Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will therefore support such a change of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Robert Polnar for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! More than a quarter of a century has passed since the then Slovenian authorities deleted more than 25 000 inhabitants from the Register of Permanent Populations; they deleted because they had not previously regulated the status of Slovenian citizenship in six months. In all these years, the National Assembly has dealt extensively and extensively with the matter. Among other things, he also decided on two interpretations against the Minister and against the Minister of the Interior and set up an investigative commission. It also adopted a so-called technical law on deleted, on which a referendum was carried out. The decision of the Grand Senate of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Kurić and the other against Slovenia is a major turning point in solving the case. In order to implement that judgment, the Republic of Slovenia had to establish a compensation scheme for the deleted. Thus, the National Assembly adopted a law, five years ago, allowing the enforcement of monetary compensation as compensation in the context of an administrative procedure for each month of deletion, the enforcement of damages in a judicial procedure and other types of fair compensation, expressed both in substantive and other benefits to beneficiaries in different fields. When establishing the criteria for the assessment and limitation of monetary compensation, the applicant had to take into account, in particular, the critical state of public finances, which was mainly due to the effects of the financial and economic crisis. Any different treatment at those times could pose a risk to the provision of a constitutionally defined principle of the social state. The law thus arranged for reparations to be made to those who had been erased. The above-mentioned Act on the Compensation of Damage to Persons Exploited from the Register of Permanent Populations began in June 2014. In Strasbourg two years later, it was concluded that the requirements resulting from the judgment against Slovenia were met. However, this chapter on erasing could not yet be left to history. In the spring of this year, the Constitutional Court, on the basis of a constitutionality assessment request submitted by three Slovenian courts — one district and two district courts — ruled that Article 12 of the Act, which limits the total amount of monetary compensation that can be awarded to the deleted, is unconstitutional. The Regulation repealed, with immediate effect for those who filed claims prior to the entry into force of the Compensation Act, deleted. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court gave the legislator nine months to adopt a new regulation. Otherwise, the repeal of that Article will apply to all injured persons. Therefore, today we are considering a proposal to amend that law, which removes the limitation on the amount of monetary compensation and the late interest fixed in judicial proceedings is limited to the amount of the principal. The restriction of late interest is not inconsistent with the Constitution and should be introduced for cases where late interest exceeds the principal with a multiple multiplier. The general position of Members of the Desus Group is that compensation should be settled for the victims in accordance with the law, and we will therefore support the conclusion in the Desus Group that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, distinguished Minister, welcome to you all together! Under the line, it is not a question of whether or not the compensation is due to the deleted compensation. The European Court of Justice has spoken about this, and for human rights, and belongs to them. Today, however, we are discussing what rules should be on the amount of compensation. The Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights has awarded compensation for non-profit damage of EUR 20 000 and awarded compensation for property damage of EUR 30 000 further. So singing Europe has awarded the total amount of compensation of EUR 50 000 to the head of the deleted head. According to the position of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, it is just – I will stress once again the right word – the compensation of EUR 50 000. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the supervision of the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights has decided that the Republic of Slovenia has met the requirement of the European Court of Justice’s judgments – and today we are considering it. Well, in Europe's eyes, everything is in order. With us and our beloved country, we obviously do not see this because it is necessary to take care of others again, and only in the end do we see the Slovenians. I want all those accompanying this meeting and the journalists to know that Europe has decided on a fair compensation of €50,000. What's going on in our country, and I'll tell you now. Our great lawyers clearly believe that this amount is unfair and must be strengthened. The District Court in Slovenj Gradec and the District Court in Ljubljana is smarter than the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, where 17 judges are sitting, and has initiated a procedure to assess the constitutionality of the law which is why we are here today. Europe makes it clear that you have arranged everything perfectly and that our people do not agree with it and decide to give the deleted even more than Europe has given them. What does that mean? This means that we are here today to decide that the fair amount for the so-called deleted in the Republic of Slovenia will be at least EUR 150 000 per head. Dear public, this is the Government's proposal that we are discussing today. Europe has estimated a fair amount of EUR 50 000 per head, the government is proposing a circus of 150 000, three times more. And more! The proposed material does not take account of the procedural interest. I'm asking the government what's with the procedural interest, what's their height. Can someone answer that question, since we do not know how much will eventually cost one of us to be erased? We estimate that at least three times what Europe has awarded them. In the Slovenian National Party, we really don't understand where the State is drawing only the funds for the chosen ones, this time they are deleted, the second time they will be migrants. This is about the fact that the Slovenian people are deliberately draining themselves financially and the story is that there is a need for squandering. It's a mistake. In this place, however, it is necessary to open a debate on the payment of compensation to Slovenian citizens who were displaced during World War II, respected colleagues and colleagues. What's with the damages? The money is obviously, the country gets it, the deleted can get it, it can get the migrant, everyone gets it, only the Slovenian man doesn't. Why has it not been possible to pay compensation to Slovenian expatriates until today? Why has the state not taken care of these people, who have also been violated by human rights, at least to private property? Because it's necessary to spar on the Slovenians. At this point, I say that in the Slovenian National Party we will never agree to pay back symbolic war damage. Never. The law on which today's amendment relates was adopted in the spirit of the financial situation of the Republic of Slovenia and the compensation was therefore limited to a threefold amount. Today we are discussing a law where the amount of compensation is no longer limited. Exactly these criteria, when it comes to deleted that the damage must not be limited, we will defend these criteria in the SNS in all procedures concerning emigrant wars during World War II. The previous marriage was good. What we accept today is bad. Finally, however, the courts will be the ones to decide the amount of compensation. We only hope that they will make a fair decision. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support a law proposing that late interest does not stop when it reaches the capital. If we do not support it, the deleted will also have the right to late interest in excess of the main claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u46	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Today in Slovenia there is a fashion of persecution of hate speech. And what is hate speech? The correct definition of hate speech, as is being imposed today through the official institutions, is alone. The facts against which the leftist finds no further argument are hate speech. And this must be pursued by all means. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to present to you enough hate speech for the next few days, so that you will have many opportunities for controversy. For I will speak of things which are evident, evident, and perfectly clear, even to every one of you. The first fact is that in Slovenia a true epilogue, a judicial epilogue for crimes committed during the self-serving war by the aggressors, an invader under the red star, in the former JLA, has never been. More. Even criminals who shot civilians, such as those who beat Gornja Radgona, who killed a famous writer, a poet — nothing happened to them. In the end, everyone was forgiven. You won't believe war crimes. Flights with a red star, an aggressor with a red star, were throwing cluster bombs at Slovenia. This is an international war crime that is not obsolete. Has anyone been convicted? No, ladies and gentlemen, no one has been convicted of aggression against Slovenia. But something has happened, which is actually what a person would call it. Indeed, in preparation for the war for Slovenia, former JLA officers sent their families and their colleagues south. You all knew that, at least the ones you remember back then. In the old Yugoslavia, of course, permanent residence was not like today, which has many legal dimensions, including consequences. For example, one of the attractions of the then permanent residence arrangements in Slovenia was that if someone moved down, he did not have to apply here, formally yes, but nothing happened, there were no consequences. He could also have applied to another republic, had a permanent residence there, and remained in the register in Slovenia. These records were what today with the right language would say the shit nest. So, things weren't arranged properly, and it wanted to be settled. In order to achieve a glorious victory in Slovenia, which is of great historical significance, after the war of independence, the nation became a nation. He's become the owner of his country. For the first time in history, Slovenia has gained its independence. In order for this to happen, they published, on the basis of legal measures adopted at the time, calls, six months' notice that anyone who was in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia during that period could obtain Slovenian citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no country in this world that would be free to settle the issue of citizenship when it comes to it. Who'd give it to everyone just to come in and play the part. The six-month deadline is awfully long, you all know what you're doing right now. The ads were on TV, the all-round ads were on the newspapers, on the radio, in all the other forms you make up. And the vast majority of those people have arranged it. Not all of them, most of those who didn't, probably weren't in Slovenia at the time and that's why they didn't arrange it. And then what happened? There were terrible words here today: crime, terrible suffering. People were, weren't they? Nothing. Only in the record was the data transferred from the records of those with permanent residence to another record of those without permanent residence. And then a few more laws were passed that allowed anyone who subsequently wanted to regulate their status to settle it easily. Go watch back the legal order of Slovenia. No country, once again, has so arbitrarily settled the issue of citizenship when it comes to it. And you will not believe that even the European institutions have given Slovenia the first period after Slovenia's independence as an example to others, how this is properly, benevolently and legally properly regulated. Then the complaints started. This issue has been raised, and at that time we have proposed a double constitutional law to settle this once and for all, and more possible legal solutions have been in play. Today you are most new here, but some of you are direct heirs to those parties who were then in Parliament, so left-wing. What were left - handed men doing during that period? Very simple, fools were made out of this problem and people. It was only about getting as many as possible to manipulate it and, on the other hand, seeing new voters here. Since the first day, we have advocated the principle that if anyone has been harmed at the time of independence, it must be fully corrected. But of course, no one who manipulated Slovenia's independence, and in particular no one who participated in the attack on Slovenia alone, should profit from it. And that's why we advocated strict individual treatment of each case on a case-by-case basis, while leftists insisted without exception that it was necessary for the average. Was it really the aim of this problem? No, no, no. The aim was to introduce Slovenian independence, because Slovenian independence was the brightest moment in the recent period of the Slovenian people. The moment when the nation was as united as ever and not only the people but also the people as such. Of course, it was not a uniform policy — yes, where! Left-handed people kept a fig in their pocket so you couldn't imagine. Do you know how the key independent documents were adopted? Today, when it comes to strong unity – the unity of the nation was, but the unity of politics was not, because leftists blocked all they could, and the key independent documents, such as the budget that allowed preparation for the defence, were adopted by one voice, ladies and gentlemen, some for two, three, but they were key for one single voice. So much for who had a fig in his pocket. And you won't believe that the key LDS people were meeting with JLA's anti-intelligence services on the eve of independence to sabotage things. And of course, these people were then faced with an old Slovenian proverb The bad news is a bad thing. And in order to wash their bad conscience before the public, they had to point the finger elsewhere, and so the problem of so-called eraseds began to be inflated across the board in order to bring about Slovenian independence, in order to launch the most disgusting and today most burdensome Slovenian development All are the same. No, ladies and gentlemen, we're not all the same, we never were and we never will be. I, too, and many with me, even carried arms for independent Slovenia, and some sabotaged. By the way, I don't even have veteran status today, and I'm still on foreign tapes with guns in my hands. So much for what happened to Slovenian independence. Interesting. For 10 years we have warned: See the compensation will, time runs out, let us arrange an individual case. The lefties were making a fool of themselves. No, no, no. Because it is necessary to refresh the memory a little, in view of the heavy words that have fallen before, let us now go to a few quotations. Milan Kučan, President of the Republic of Slovenia: “Indemnities are not directly linked to the issuance of decisions.” Oh, run, no. Tone Rop, President of the Government: “This is about wanting to deal with this problem more precisely, no one can, no unjustifiable compensation will be paid, no unreasonable compensation will be paid” and so on and so on. And it was not the case that today Mrs. SD spoke so emotionally, Miran Potrč, head of SD: “The issue of decisions today has nothing to do with the possibility of compensation on this basis.” Let's do it again. The issue of decisions today has nothing to do with the possibility of compensation on this basis. Paule Gantar, Indeed, today is the successor of Alenka Bratušek: “The opposition, the present one, is just an argument that there will be compensation. No, no, no. There will be no compensation.” Dr. Lojze Ude, supporter of Zoran Jankovic and Positive Slovenia, on the question of whether filing an application means payment of compensation: “Absolutely not.” Let's move on. Borut Pahor, current president of the country, then president of the SD: "I hear flat-rate estimates that the issuance of decisions now means that everyone who issues decisions is liable to some compensation. That's not true. There will be no compensation.” Franco Juri, Zares, today Alenka Bratušek's Party: “The law does not foresee,” I repeat, “the payment of damages, such as the constant and misleading opposition.” Katarina Kresal, then Minister: "Because today's debate has also shown that some still do not understand the problem of the deleted, I stress that by regulating the deleted status we will not confirm the citizenship and we will not give them compensation." Let us repeat this because it is so beautiful: We will not grant citizenship and we will not give them compensation! Irfan Beširević, himself erased: “Look, the decision does not mean that we have the right to compensation, and therefore we do not even consider the action for compensation.” Interesting. Again, Katarina Kresal: “SDS is very good at manipulating its statements, and all predictions of compensation coming are completely unfounded, demagogic and fictitious.” That's true again today when we're talking about some other stuff, isn't it? Well, let's say, Miran Potrč, head of the SD Group: "Today we both know that the Bond Act prevents any enforcement of damages over five years, because it is an absolute limitation period. And if there is no new law to give any rights, there are no such rights. Therefore, do not intimidate people with damages, rather tell them how much the referendums will cost.” Look, we've been listening to this demagogism right now when it comes to the issue of migrants and the Marrakesh Treaty. It's important how much the referendum costs. How much did you just say? 52 million for 15 referendums of money. This is a real situation, ladies and gentlemen, if you believe left-handed, of course. Aleš Zalar, LDS: “There are no compensations that you spoke of.” Nika Repovž, Radio Slovenia: "The task of the country is to fix everything that has been done. The exception between the legal profession to which today he complains” that injustice has been committed “is Dr. Tone Jerovšek, who is even a co-author of the Constitution, has no reservations to record that such a decision is only believed by the blind and the deceiving. The SDS serves with ever-new calculations of dizzying damages. On the fertile background of the recession, the shameless solstice of populism, impatience and fear.” Isn't that interesting, exactly the same words we hear these days? Yeah, there's not gonna be any compensation, is there, because this is going on, we're not at the end of it, so you won't think. [[…]] Matjaž Hanžek: “Speaking about compensation is only a rationalisation of xenophobia and a search for excuses to prevent the enforcement of the Constitutional Court’s decision.” And we also hear about xenophobia these days, not how fine history repeats itself. Katarina Kresal: "It is unworthy to be in difficult times when the burden that people bear and fears are very real that the opposition is fighting a political struggle on the backs of pensioners, students, workers and workers. As it is said, after six years of unjustified threats of compensation, no compensation has yet been paid and there will be no compensation.” Hmm? Bojan Bulgarian: “Look, there is some kind of talk here” at the time was SD, by the way, “as if it were some automaticism, that this law means, I would say, mass compensation. There is no such thing.’ Again, Miran Potrč, SD: "No decision has been made yet in terms of the obligation of the State to pay any compensation." Katarina Kresal, Minister, is indeed the true messenger of the leftist: “With this law we don’t give anything, nor compensation, nor citizenship, nor electoral rights. We are opening only a legally correct and, after many years, the only possible way to regulate the status of people, no more and no less." Well, the Peace Institute, too, is now very up-to-date, especially in the light of the persecution of the hostile word: "The Peace Institute of Action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by which it confirmed the word of the Constitutional Law proposal and sent it to the National Assembly, assesses it as another act in a series of discriminatory measures against the affected displaced inhabitants. According to the content, the constitutional proposal is contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, creates different categories of deleted persons, is discriminatory to deleted, allows new withdrawals of the status already acquired, denies the responsibility of the State authorities to delete and removes the right of compensation.” Katarina Kresal: “Yes, Mr Grims always overlooks one very important fact in the story of compensation. In fact, it has been six years since the opposition led by the SDS threatened with compensation and already five years ago 4 thousand decisions were issued by Minister Bohinc. And what happened until today? Nothing at all. No compensation has yet been paid and will not be paid. No euros, no tolars. And this menacing danger, which Mr Grimes so fond of talking about, is just a fairy tale." Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a fairy tale today. In a fairy tale of €52 million, as much as this pervasiveness has cost Slovenia's taxpayers so far. Why did the story end then in the European Court of Human Rights as it did? The decision is valid and must be respected, there is no doubt about it. But why did she end up like that? Because at the time there was a leftist government that did not defend Slovenia at all. She went there with one such defense to forgive, after a very strong night party at midnight, a woken student of another year's law would better write that defense than he was then, because it was actually written in such a way that he gave it to the complainants between the lines. And then the European Court followed that. Very simple. Thus, the defamation of independence was legally confirmed. However, the penalty for those who actually committed war crimes as aggressors under the red star on Slovenian soil during the war for Slovenia has not been met. So much for that. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, because leftists have been acting as a fool for ten years as I have described how no compensation will be, then today we are facing claims for such increased amounts, because of the interest we know in this case are criminal, very high, and because of this you are now looking for a way out of this mess that you yourself have cooked to pay for Slovenian independence. Believe me, the SDS won't help you. We wanted to help everyone when the time was long before anything was adopted by left-wing people, with relevant constitutional laws, with solutions that would allow individual treatment, so that whoever was actually affected, if anyone was injured, would receive adequate compensation so that no one else could profit from it. You've given it over, the number's here now, the results are here, and that's just the thing. All together, it has only one red thread, it was about mutilating the most beautiful moment, the greatest moment in the history of independence and the existence of the Slovenian people. The moment the nation became a nation, when we got our Slovenian state. Because at the time of self - conquest, when the most difficult moments were, one part of politics, not of the nation, the nation was united, the fig tree was in its pocket, and that is why it continues to be discredited today. Most of the introductory discussions were exactly that way, so I also replied that everyone, including those who might listen to this story for the first time today, would understand why it was actually going. 52 million for the adoption of Slovenia's independence. We could have arranged this a long time ago and we should have settled the constitutional law in an appropriate way, it would have cost an incomparable less, but then, of course, that effect you wanted would not have been. That's why it didn't work out in time. And that's your responsibility, no one else. That's all it really is. And of course, if independence means nothing to anyone, because he had a fig in his pocket, if his own country means nothing to someone, then he or his legal successor is the one who opens the door wide to the hordes of all possible migrants with the Marrakesh agreement, with the Marrakesh high treason, and says, "Come and all will be available to you!" For those who set up their health, their lives, and everything they had, nothing or even shame about Slovenia alone. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it works. Not only is it because of those who have actively participated in Slovenia's independence, but it is not because of all those who have properly and legally regulated their status. In this National Assembly such cases were presented, say, Mr. Alieski, if you wish to name one of them when people arranged things in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, according to calls, they were loyal citizens – and what did they get? That they today pay those who were then threatened and made a fool of them, through taxes, compensation for their suffering. Who gets all that then, and you know it. These deleted included people who were arrested in the war in Croatia on the side of the aggressor or in Bosnia, so-called Sunday warriors who went to fight one side or the other to Bosnia and so on and so on. In short, people who weren't here at all or even there were less time. At least we would avoid this and not waste money if we accepted the timely proposals offered by the SDS. If this were to be settled at the time the time was running out, the European Court of Justice reacted, and it would probably have ruled otherwise if it had really wanted to defend Slovenian interests, but it was not because the first interest of those who had left at the time was the power to adopt Slovenian independence. Ladies and gentlemen, Slovenian independence is a historic moment, and so it will remain and there is no stain on it. The only stain is that those who, during the war for Slovenia as aggressors under the red star, have never actually been convicted on the legal path. However, whoever has ever been wronged not only in that period, but also decades before or now, is entitled to all the compensation, this is also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which guarantees his legal order and is guaranteed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Dr. Milan Brglez has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to take my breath after what I have listened to as the views of the parliamentary groups. Cover your breath over the treachery. Take my breath because I must be a citizen of this country, ashamed of myself before international institutions. Indeed, in this case, the European Court of Human Rights, after complaints, including Slovenia, concluded not only that it had been deleted as such, but that it was a deliberate practice, it added to the large Senate the charges of discrimination against citizens or those, yes, because they were still citizens. And what I listened to a little while ago was just a little bit of citizenship fraud. What is being deleted is only permanent residents and has been in force under any constitution that has already been in this territory for 70 years — that no right can be regulated in any way other than by law. According to the Constitutional Court and also to the correct conclusion, this part has been lost. In this national assembly, of course, even then in the congregation, there were suggestions for this matter to be done. I'm not gonna say they weren't. They were rejected. At the same time, a fundamental constitutional charter was soon adopted. This fundamental constitutional charter promises to all that their rights will be respected. Then adopted a new constitution with a very clear different foregleam – human rights are at the forefront. That is why I often stress these human rights to you, so I often say that patriotism is the defence of the Constitution and not of anything else. After that, an administrative deletion takes place. Only with the transfer, certainly with a lower level of marriage than that which should have been made in this House, has the rights decided. I don't find that out on my own. This was found and ultimately had to be determined by the European Court of Human Rights. And then pretending that it wasn't like that and that it was something less or anything else, it's terrible. But, I'll say, on the one hand, it's embarrassing and sad that it happened. You might actually be afraid of that. And there's hope on the other side. Fear, regret, shame because state officials, although there was a new constitution to be followed, believed the superiors and carried out this matter in half of the cases literally, regardless of who it was. People haven't known each other since today. That's half. And the other half is the other way around. They didn't submit to it, and the rest of them are people. The rest were people because they respected the Constitution. And the other one gives hope. In fact, the first one is very similar, in a different way of course, it is not a direct deprivation of life here, but it is literally a legal deletion. It's not like that. Very bureaucratic. Very thoughtful. Everything that freezes you. What you find in Hannah Arendt's works has happened here. And then make a fool out of it?Oh, my God! That's what I mean. There's a bottom. [[…]] Looks like people are going under it. This part is terrible. Certainly what is important is that we have lost international reputation by this judgment. Someone who respects human rights. It's not the only time. And what hurts me more, I don't need it, and I didn't want to talk about it at all, that the same logic is being used today. To try it as perfectly normal and then to attribute horror to the opposite side, because it understands what is actually being done in this way, how he is trying to manipulate himself. No, I would rather not have this in this debate. [[…]] And I've told you before, when you look at how public talk is formed about these issues, it's literally like that. In the same place as they were deleted, migrants could have been refugees in the same place. We'll find a number of categories. But these two are brandy. One of them was internationally convicted. And those were erased. These were deleted when we had to, because we are doing so, we respect the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights when this scheme, which had to be prepared, tried to make the lowest possible symbolic payment along this administrative route. I remember the debate at the time, it started at 30 euros a month. It also ended because of the coalitions, and I think it's also because of the party that I'm in now that they've been trying and they've settled the matter down to at least 50. It's symbolic of all of this, given what's attached to permanent residence. Lifelikely, this can be very few in given situations. But this could have been done through, in a way, adopted at the level of the control mechanism that exists within the Council of Europe in the implementation of such judgments, even because there were no countries behind those deleted which had some interest in actually carrying out this control. Compared to the scheme that we had to make because of the Ljubljana Bank and the outstanding foreign exchange deposits, this situation is significantly different because the countries were behind it, and this scheme was much more just. I am not saying anything new, at least as far as my point of view is concerned, I have always found this matter unfair, given what has actually happened. If the basic scheme is unfair, it's hard to fix. At this point, I don't want to say much more. But it's something that matters. I say, shamefully, sadly, we are afraid, because we can obviously repeat the same thing again in another instance, but completely outside the constitutional framework. Therefore, I am happy that the Constitution was adopted at that time as it was. I have said several times that there are no political conditions to go the same way again. It's only now that we're aware of what's protecting everything. As long as this one stops, this country will also stand. And the damage that happens inside of it needs to be corrected, not just to look at that other side. Because I think that even with the numbers themselves behind this, it is slightly overstated, as was the amount of compensation that will happen and are much smaller compared to other schemes that we had to make. But these comparisons don't matter at all. At the moment when we have this subject before us, the international community always, because we have acceded to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, without reservation, sets up a mirror. We are not just what we say about ourselves, but we are also that or, above all, what others think about us in a field where criteria exist. If we do not have our own, fortunately, there is a European Court of Human Rights that can decide in such cases. At least as far as I'm concerned, I don't feel like this whole law-making thing is necessary. However, I feel it necessary to say over and over again those things that are right and that are within the constitutional criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Member Meira Hot has the floor to prepare Natasha Sukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The issue of deleted citizens of former SFRJ countries is one of Slovenia's largest stains. Several international institutions, the Constitutional Court and 2012 even the European Court of Human Rights have warned and ruled that in this case there was a mass violation of human rights that occurred in Slovenia alone. Unfortunately, this issue has been misused for political purposes for a number of years, and the injustices that have occurred have not been resolved, but have even increased. On 26 February 1992, 25 000 671 individuals per night lost their rights under a permanent residence permit, without any decision, without any possibility of appeal. Many did not even know it, did not even realize that they had no status, and that they had become foreigners overnight in the country they had considered their home. They only found out about the above when they might have switched passports to an administrative unit, where officials simply pierced their personal documents and started treating them as foreigners overnight without any status. In certain cases, they have even been assigned to war zones in suspected home countries to obtain various certificates. Of course not. Individuals were even deported. They have lost until then social rights acquired, health insurance rights acquired, housing rights, work rights violated, and their right to family life violated. Many families have even been broken down by being deported from the same family to suspected home countries, in certain cases even those with the Republic of Slovenia who have also given birth. Calvary was perfect. It took almost 20 years for politics, of course only after the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, to finally recognise that they have a deleted right to reparation, both for property and non-profit damage. Thus, the judgment of the Grand Chamber confirmed that Slovenia had violated the rights of deleted persons, not only providing for compensation for the complainants, but it was unanimously stipulated that the Republic of Slovenia must establish a domestic compensation scheme specifically for this case within one year of the sentence of the judgment. It was found that the situation of the complainants stems from a broader systemic problem and that the expiry of the expiry of the antiquated deadlines cannot impose compensation for the damage caused. In doing so, the European Court of Human Rights has assessed that the State measures taken since 1999 have not been sufficient for the full and timely correction of the injustices committed by the authorities and resulting in annihilation. At that time, the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Act on the Reparation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations for the enforcement of the judgment. At the time of the adoption of the law in question, Mrs Majda Potrata, a Member of the Social Democrats, expressed doubts as to whether the maximum amount of compensation to which the beneficiaries could be erased in legal and judicial proceedings is justified and whether these assumptions are even consistent with the Constitution. Even then, lawyers argued that the limitation of height would be unacceptable from a constitutional point of view. We also drew the attention of the Social Democrats at that time to many other discriminations, to other open questions about restitution, which we pointed out was that the circle of beneficiaries should be much broader, that the problematic amount of cash compensation for the month of cancellation, as set out in the administrative procedure, was a problem limiting the amount of compensation in court proceedings. We also pointed out that the law does not fully regulate other open issues. We are talking in particular about the status issues that have taken place in relation to the deletion. The Constitutional Court’s judgment of 5 April showed that the said doubts of the Social Democrats were justified when the legislation was adopted. I would not now go into whether the reasoned distinction between the Constitutional Court and the two groups is justified. Is it justified to separate deleted persons from those who have submitted applications before the entry into force of the 2013 Act and from those who have lodged after the entry into force of the law, but may be required to attach such distinction to a separate opinion that such distinction is controversial from the point of view of Article 14 of the Constitution. However, the fact that the Court has indisputably found that Article 12 of the contested Act on Compensation of Damage Deleted for the First Group, i.e. for those who filed claims for damages prior to the entry into force of the Act, constituted a deterioration of their position in the enforcement of claims and that such deterioration was not justified by public interest and was therefore repealed by this Article. With regard to the second group, it found that the limitation on the amount of compensation referred to in Article 12 constitutes a deterioration of the situation also for those injured who demonstrate in individual court proceedings the specific extent of the injury. A legal regime which excludes any possibility of individual judgment which would allow the courts, in individual cases, to take into account and evaluate those aspects as contrary to Article 2 of the Constitution. I therefore certainly support today's proposed changes, which allow for the possibility of individual assessment of individual cases and for the determination of compensation for both property and property damage. At the same time, I hope that it is justified to justify to the Government that it is permissible to limit the level of interest in terms of the risk to the sustainability of public consumption, because I do not want to see the debate again in a few years' time, as we are discussing today. Respected and respected! I think it's a real time for us to conclude this shameful story, to try to completely eliminate the injustices that have occurred. To at least partially try to compensate the injured and at least to mitigate the consequences that have occurred to them through the illegal operation of our country. They were violated by human rights, suffered the worst possible loss, and for fifteen years they were subject to political manipulation. Finally, let the principle of trust in the law and the principle of righteousness be restored. And once again, to conclude, it was not in the event of a deletion just for a transfer from the so-called living to a dead record. It was the worst and most massive human rights violation in our country. And this is the only truth that has been found both by international institutions and ultimately by our highest Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much! Nataša Sukič has the word to prepare Jerca Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that! Your Honor! However, the Constitutional Court has rightly found that such a provision, which limits compensation to a three-fold administrative legal compensation, is contrary to the Constitution, since the law, even in individual cases, in which a disproportionately large gap between the amount of damage shown and the statutoryly limited monetary compensation, would not allow for an individual assessment of the situation of an individual injured person. However, this law that we have before us today, except for the correction of damages in terms of their limitation or individual treatment and a few minor additional measures, certainly does not ensure that the consequences of the deletion are remedied. Despite warnings from deleted and many non-governmental organisations, civil society organisations, status issues remain open. Currently deleted even no longer have legal possibilities to regulate the status. The extremely painful issues of family reunion remain open. In a foreign country, children deleted and later spouses cannot gain status and live in Slovenia with their families due to the shortcomings of the 2010 status law. The possibility of reintegrating support remains open and so on. There is also a lack of legal uncertainty about the pending and future judicial proceedings. Former Constitutional Judge Matevž Krivic said of Dnevnik, quote: “The repeal of such an obviously unconstitutional provision is not a surprise. It is very problematic, however, that the Constitutional Court, in all of this without need, has become entangled in some deep-minded legal fines, which makes the beneficiary artificially or even in the event of a violation of the Constitution, as stated in the separate opinion of Judge Mežnareva, divided into those for which the annulment is immediately applicable and those for which, hopefully, it will enter into force in nine months.” It's as if the 26 years we've been waiting for the injustices to be rectified haven't been enough. However, this will eliminate only one of at least ten severe contradictions in the laws on deleted ones, all others waiting. When will the victims of their complaints finally break through all the lower cases to the Constitutional Court if they wait at all? True, the removal of only the first anti-constitution has a practical significance for only a few more than 300 out of a total of 25 thousand 671 deleted, which had sufficient knowledge, nerve and money to make professional compensation actions through lawyers at all. Today's law will add another additional distinction. Those who have managed to get through to the last obstacle, until appropriate compensation has been obtained, will be divided into those who will be awarded compensation without limitation, and those who will be awarded compensation with limited legal interest. We are creating new ones instead of the elimination of injustices by today's law. And let's not forget, this is just a good percentage of all deleted. What about the remaining 99%? On conclusion, I can only say that Slovenia, as of today, if this law is adopted, is again missing the opportunity to end this painful story in an honest and responsible manner once and for all. A painful story for all of whom in 1992 our country plunged into terrible human distress and caused them immense injustice, which nothing can really fix. Nor can compensation really alleviate it if it is not equally received by all those whom we then inhumanely and shamefully simply erased, declaring their non-existence, even though they were our neighbors, acquaintances, coworkers, friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has Jerz Korča, to be prepared by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u54	President, thank you very much for your word. This topic, which we are discussing today, actually best describes the fact that on February 26, 1992, my mother baked a cake in the evening because it was my birthday on February 27th. And then I was two years old. This is a key problem of this, and it is possible that pain is accompanied by that beautiful event of our country's independence, that this story has been dragged through all governments, and if in these governments parties who have in their letter S, in their letter D, L, any letter has already been mentioned. This problem has not been addressed systematically and has returned to all those who have been wronged, what they deserve. Politics has obviously been irresponsible in this place in the past, and for each of these deletions, there is an individual’s story. Some stories are definitely speculative in nature. There are always speculators in every matter, and any subject is dealt with. Even if we're talking about taxes, they're speculators, and there must have been some sort of case in between. But on the basis of a minority, to do wrong to the majority, which this deletion was made only administratively by one click of an official, of course, according to someone’s instructions, is not correct. It is sad that this topic has been used in the past for internal political struggles, and this is being accompanied by too many human rights-related topics for the elimination of injustices. We need to start going over this slowly. We are doing battles, referendums and all such matters on the subject of human rights and one thing that has been done and has not been done properly and we were unable to admit that the country has made a mistake and we have drawn this black mark to the European or other international institutions that have then clearly told us that something has not been right here. This government inherited one thing, just like some other. The government proposal before us introduces a change in the direction that we deal with the case individually and that the interest cannot exceed the capital. I trust the Government that it has prepared this proposal extremely professionally and that this matter will not fall in the future, as the colleague has expressed her thoughts. We must be aware, however, that no euro will return to these people what was done to them, that they had problems year after year, and that they had serious life stories during the period when they were erased. I personally know at least three such stories, including stories when they were two children, and one child was erased and the other child was not erased. This means that the children of the same mother have come to this situation. Misusing what Comrade Grimes is doing in his debate saddens me. It saddens me that we are abusing one matter from debate to debate from the regular session to an extraordinary meeting. The adoption was a beautiful event that this nation can be proud of, constantly being adopted by certain individuals, but we are never able to say that it was the collective achievement of the entire nation. And one thing, this policy has not been able in all these years to unite at least around the fact that, in primary school and in high school, my generation would also present this event as something beautiful, something good and that young people would be taught me at all about what was going on at the time. This is not the case in Slovenian textbooks because you are going to internal political battles on the subject as well as deleted. So we're taking a step today. There are still things open. I believe that this government, which shows that it has a sense of saving some of the backlogs, will save us from closing one thing of our history and will finally be able to focus on what our purpose is. And that's to really look into the future and really start doing the things that need to be done. I will personally support this proposal, and I believe that we will take this necessary step today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavšič, prepare Andrej Šushmelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Good afternoon, everyone! I can relate to the collective guilt of this institution. But I cannot reconcile myself with collective responsibility. So it's my fault, but it's not my responsibility. For 26 years, the issue of deleted persons has been resolved. One little epilogue is supposed to get the whole story today. This will also be discussed until disability and will look for such or other arguments as to why it happened, who did it and what could have happened if it had not happened. The question is, it's self-exposure. That's what the court has decided, not just one. Today we are talking about a law that would limit the payment of interest, not compensation itself. I'm actually ashamed. I'm ashamed of the perverse argument that we've listened to on one side. Everyone's heard. I'm ashamed of the comparisons and the words spoken. If we are talking only about the amount of compensation – let us banalize the matter to the end, for we are able to manage it indefinitely in this institution. If we say so, today we have heard the number 150 000 euros, about injustice, fear, humiliation, feeling powerlessness and, above all, the feeling that they have raised their hands above you. 150 thousand euros for 26 years. That's 5,000 769.23 euros a year. That's 480.76 euros a month. That's 16.02 euros a day. If that were true. It's not. Because we're not talking about the amount of compensation today. Today we are talking about exercising justice and justice. We're not here to judge. We're not here to sue. We are here to eliminate proven and judgmental injustices and to condemn all these perverse acts from the past. Even those who happened after World War II when I contacted Mrs. Žibret, who, in connection with her calls, passed the microphone, said a number of things. Everything that has been wronged has to be accused and accepted for it, not responsibility. That is why I will uphold the law proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Andrej Šushmelj has the word to prepare Jani Möderndorfer. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go. Procedurally, Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I know that Mr Member is new to the National Assembly, but I did not discuss it. I haven't debated and I can't replicate and I can't express my point of view, so it's not right to mention someone who hasn't discussed it. What we hear in the National Assembly is that it's inappropriate for someone to use it and just say it in a microphone. Besides, you don't want my discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sushmel.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the debate there were also a number of deceptions, references to names before, and who is the successor of someone or something, former customers. I would like to point out that this distorts the underlying origin of this problem. The main source of this problem is the removal of citizens in 1992. Speaking of Alenka Bratusek, no. Our President, Alenka Bratusek, was a student in 1992, if I'm not mistaken. So I wouldn't commit any acts, because the origin of all this was erased. I would also like to agree with my colleague Grims that many governments then tried to wave their hand, but no, the costs will not be such, the costs are not justified, and we will somehow postpone this to the next government, and this has unfortunately been happening for too long. That is exactly why we are going to close this thing down and solve it today. If we remember, let's look at a little history, in 2007 there was a deletion of denial, even of the term "extended". At that time, under Minister Dragutin Matei, I quote: “No organ of the Republic of Slovenia has erased any of these citizens, the name has been deleted from the political and media campaign, and it has been used to designate those who did not decide on Slovenian citizenship or to regulate the status under the Foreign Law.” End of story. But as early as 1999, the Constitutional Court ruled that “one of the first consequences of the legal situation of nationals of other republics was that the competent administrative authorities, on the date of the entry into force of the Aliens Act, transferred these persons from the register of permanent residents to the records of foreigners. [[…]] The transfer was made on an official basis without the citizens of other republics being familiar with the transfer and being taught about their new legal status.” End of quote. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is what the Constitutional Court wrote in 1999, today we are in 2018, as far as it remains, and we are talking about these, almost twenty years old, thirty years old themes. For this reason, I hope that today we will support this law and end this long and shameful story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the word to prepare Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u62	Thank you very much for the debate. I listened very carefully, and I hoped that we would discuss only what the law really refers to. However, I have warned that just one seems unable to avoid debates in the past, but at the same time, in my position, I have made it very clear that you simply cannot talk if you are not looking at the whole picture. Yes, I admit, Comrade Grims is not here in the hall, but he may hear and run. I listened very carefully to the position of a colleague who tried to blur the whole thing out and present it in the context that he even compared war events to war and then to the description that he was even veteran and so on. By the way, I worked alone and I was an accomplice, and I never bragged about it, and I never wanted to have any IDs, nor did I join any veteran organization, because I don't need it. I just don't need it. Especially not to boast that I can get an excuse to talk later and slander everything in a row. I'm sorry, no one in this country has the opportunity to apologize in this way. I will begin essentially with the debate of New Slovenia, which is no longer here. Moreover, they announced that they would not vote on this point, which is of a kind of interest. I believe that the fellow Member was given a position, because he knows nothing about it, because when this case happened, he was 12 years old. Therefore, I find it a little uncreditable that he was sent to war to defend certain views and views, especially with paragraphs such as: that the injustice was committed because it was not determined where this one had been erased, what these deleted and similar views were doing. A fellow Member will have to learn when to say no to his older fellow Members, who have been present in these discussions in the past and to go and defend the positions they have already advocated. I don't think it's fair. But I'm going to give you an example that I mentioned many years ago. My classmate, he had two brothers, all three of them were in a family where father and mother from Croatia died in a car accident. When the cut date came, one of these three, this classmate of mine, didn't know it was erased. He only found out after two years when he went to the doctor. The doctor was told that he was not insured at all, that he did not exist at all. That's what they told him later at the medical checkout. They also told him he couldn't even protect himself. He was working with a private man who didn't even know he was wiped out and paid his salary. Where did those contributions go? FURS was collecting contributions. No problem. But they didn't tell him it was erased. And those two older brothers, one of those who was not even born in Slovenia, have citizenship. He was born in Slovenia, where he studied in Slovenia, and he went to school with me, but he didn't go to high school. You know, in all this talk about some war crimes and doing a comparison Of course it is not nice to hear about war crimes and for every lost life it is worth honoring the citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia in memory and in admonition. [[…]] But will we honor ourselves as a reminder, at least as a reminder, to those who have been deprived of their basic human rights? I tell you, until today, not the President of the State, not the Presidents of the governments, no one has ever apologized to these people. Nobody! I don't publicly remember anyone apologizing to them. Who are they? No, no, no. Of course, the following must also be said. It is frightening to hear a sentence – a 2nd-year-old student would be easier and better able to defend his position at the ECHR. More. He even has an indication that this could be defended. He points out that this could be defended and the ECHR would give us the right to violate human rights. And that's absurd, what I'm listening to here. I'm talking about my colleague Grimes. I don't know what happened to my fellow Grimes in his youth, that he is so opposed to these fundamental human rights that we have in the constitution. Or is it true that human rights apply only to some but not to some? We're talking about a man. We're not talking about citizens. This only happened in Slovenia? No, that's what happened in Latvia. It's a different case, but they erased people the same way. Two hundred thousand. There was a relationship between Latvia and Russia. And don't say we're the only ones who got us wrong because they didn't understand it. By the way, the Constitutional Court, when deciding for the first time, and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, when deciding for the second time, will never award compensation. This is the first time the ECSC has done this. And for the first time, it starts to think seriously about what needs to be done now. Before that, nothing happened. He said they wanted to fix the wrongs. How did he vote in 1999 when Drnovšek came with a proposal for a solution? Yeah, let him say it. Let's see the ballot. Thank God, the archives of the National Assembly carry everything. Whether he voted in favour or not. How it happened in 2010, when, for the first time in history, I warn you, in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, the Minister was interpelled because she stood on the side of human rights. That's crazy. No one can explain that to a stranger. You're fighting for human rights, and that's why you're interpreting it for punishment. They were screaming here, screaming. You know, one of the most horrible things is when you trade politically, and it's done all the time. I understand that we have different concepts of ideology and different perspectives on how to deal with something in the Republic of Slovenia. I respect that. That's why we have a multi-party system, and that's why we think some more left, some more right, some liberal, everyone trying to fit into some space. But, for God's sake, we have to realize for once that there are no political differences in human rights and there must be no differences! These are fundamental values if we want to go to democracy at all. So let's think a little bit about if, yes, no, no, no, no, that's where ours was shot during the war, so they have to be punished. Go see who was really wiped out. Mostly on-the-job. Therefore, the thinking of the Constitutional Court or of the Constitutional Court of that time was also systematic when it said that this had been done in a planned, systematic way. You can't tell me, I'll wipe out thirty of them, and I'll tell you why, but you take the pool and you hope there'll be 30 of them in this pool. But only with their heads did they pay so much more with what happened. All I can say is that I'm a little sad, what I saw at the last College of the President of the National Assembly, which was deciding on this law, what procedure it would take when I saw that there was a trade there. Today, some say that they speak for human rights. I'm sorry. That's where the trade was. And I'll tell you, in the past it wasn't just the SDS, it wasn't, it was also New Slovenia, it was also LDS, and everyone who sat in this story. They all bear part of the responsibility because they did not respond because they did not expose themselves to the pedestal and did not come out with a clear face and said, “This must not happen here.” Did the President of the country then react and publicly say that this was a crime? But the president of the government? No, no, no. It was traded and hoped that the human mind would prevail. On my part, for the first time, an apology to all these people, if others can't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. There you go. Procedurally, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u64	Mr. President, thank you very much. I am proceding that you should remind, however, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleague Jani Möderndorfer, that he will allow us to free ourselves once again. We have gained independence in 1991 and it would be good to finally free ourselves once. New Slovenia is a free party and we have not sent any cubs to fire. Dear colleague Alexander Reberšek is our highly esteemed and respected Member of New Slovenia. There's no baby. It is a fool to work from man, and it is by our colleague Jani Möderndorfer, who is filled with the mouth of human rights. Mr. Vice President, does our young MP deserve the title of a young man? However, if you are interested in where we have been, Mr Möderndorfer, you know the Group of Members, probably yours, has regular meetings of the Group of Members and also has extraordinary meetings. I will send you the minutes of this extraordinary 4th meeting of the New Slovenia Group to see what we have been talking about. Of course not about you, but we talked about how we would get this country into some normal traffic because you've put it all on its knees in the last four years.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Ducky, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u66	Yes, thank you. Give the chairman the procedure at last to be procedural in this national assembly, not a free debate, which he has done with a very experienced politician and colleague before me who is not – what already? – green, pub or whatever, man cub, but he's a man with a kilometer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Masha Kociper has the floor to prepare Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u68	I'd start by saying that I don't think this country is on its knees. Whoever led her, I think she's a little overprotective. I think we live in a country with a high quality of living standards and that we should appreciate that. One of the components of such a regulated country is that it has judicial institutions that make decisions that also correct possible errors and we are actually talking about them. We are discussing that the Constitutional Court decided in March this year on the non-constitutionality of Article 12 of the Law on the Reparation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. In this regard, the law before us today, which, in accordance with this Constitutional Court decision, now deals with this issue differently, as the Constitutional Court has referred to it, and in this regard no longer limits the amount of compensation that has been imposed under this Act, but wishes to regulate the law that we are talking about today, in order to limit the amount of interest that these injured persons would have received to the level of the principal. Simplification, as much as they receive the principal's compensation, can be as much as late interest. This is the law we're talking about today. The debate on deleted can never be carried out only in the context of some of the narrow issues. It is obviously still a burning ideological issue that separates and causes strong feelings in both. But given everything that's been said and given that I don't have much time, I would really only define myself as to the law before us. The law regulates the amount of late interest that may be incurred in a judicial procedure where the amount of property and property damage will be determined from person to person from individual. Once this damage has been established, it will be assessed at the level determined by the court that it is appropriate. The law only regulates, as it were said, the amount of late interest. Why the Constitutional Court annulled this decision, something has already been said. On the question of a colleague, is it possible that it will also repeal the law we are talking about today, and I say that I do not know. Human rights are always about weighing individual human rights and making sure that one does not prevail over the other, but is in some balance. Since people prefer to believe someone other than Members, they would read from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service one part relating to the adoption of the law at the time, it is said that the law, which was repealed in one part. So he says: "The National Assembly estimates that, by limiting the amount of monetary compensation, there is undoubtedly a constitutionally permissible and legitimate objective, namely the protection of human rights, other human rights, those which the State is obliged to provide in accordance with the principle of the social state; and in this connection also the care for the financial capacity of the State. The State must be able to guarantee these rights in order not to be threatened or affected. An intervention in the right to reparation is necessary and unavoidable in this case, as the legislator cannot fully protect these rights without being threatened or affected by the rights which the State is obliged to grant to all citizens in accordance with the principle of the social state. The State must provide a number of functions in various social areas, while at the same time ensuring that an adequate level playing field between the State and taxpayers is achieved. Due to the general poor economic and financial situation, the country has already intervened in a number of areas and has limited the level of the various rights it must ensure. The payment of full compensations with all late payments and costs would result in an unsustainable burden on the public financing system and an unsustainable financial burden on the State, thereby endangering the exercise of other functions of the State, in particular social functions, and taking into account international commitments and so on." And I will stop here, obviously not only Parliament's Legislative and Legal Service, but also the Government's legal service has put itself in this position in the weighting of rights. The Constitutional Court has annulled this part, it is said that the compensation must be full; and I am asking you, all those here on the left, who have always been against the rights of the deleted, what do you say to that and the data we have to make full compensation together with full legal interest, this country will cost 53 million euros. 53 million euros, you know how many of your sentinel laws, which also legitimately and legitimately try to resolve certain issues. You have always been against compensation, but now you will, in principle, allow 53 million from the state budget to go on this issue. At Alenka Bratušek, we advocate that all people receive adequate compensation, but the Constitutional Court did not say that the amount of interest is also problematic. It may still be, for the time being, and in terms of weighing the social rights of the people of this country, we want to limit interest. And you think 53 million, and let me add another million 82 thousand, as much as the costs are expected, will be spent on this issue. Also a question for colleagues from the Left, principle is very beautiful and I support many ideas [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. Excellent starting point. Someone earlier said in the debate that no euro can account for the damage and grief caused by these injustices to the wiped-out people of our country; but no, then there are always those excuses, how then there are other aspects to be taken into account. Then it's a question; so it's no big deal if we limit them here a little bit, because these Euros are not going to fix what the state has done. As far as limiting interest is concerned. This may not be unconstitutional, but it is, of course, against all principles. And I'm gonna get to those calculations that colleague Kociper put out. Weighting affects one person's rights to other human rights. The country has violently or less violently wiped out 25,000 people. I think it is very clear here what human rights have been at stake, and the state cannot be the holder of human rights. As for interest, which, of course, will be high, because for 27 years the state has not done anything about it, and also because it has carried out its responsibility; first, in 1992 the members of the executive council of the congregation did what they did. Some are still active in politics today, have not been responsible for it, have not been persecuted for it, they have not, as colleague Möderndorfer has said, and I agree, they have not apologized for it. But then there were other situations, and in 2013, the then government passed a law that was unconstitutional, and that was also part of the transfer of responsibility. It was also part of the transfer of responsibility that after March 15th this year the government of Mira Cerar did nothing and, of course, left this pleasant matter to the new coalition. But what is crucial, all interest, you yourself have mentioned more than 50 million, will eventually become less than the various planned purchases of armor within three weeks of this mandate. With what face can you say that it is necessary to put up with these interest rates, to pay little attention to public finances. No, no social transfers will suffer from eraseds. However, because of a number of other measures in this country, it may be true. I think that's totally unacceptable. I understand the indignation of, say, my colleague Jani, who clearly highlights what was wrong with this issue. But I don't understand how he can agree to simply limit this compensation. And once again, 339 out of 25,000 plus. How can you even propose such a law? 9 months was the time, 9 months in which different scenarios could be considered. One scenario is to do what happens if by 14. 1. this law will not enter into force. Article 12 is therefore no longer fully applicable and these people are also entitled to full compensation. And if you all speak today and you have a mouthful of righteousness, an end to injustice and so on, that's the only thing you can do. But we can all ask ourselves together what we have been doing for 27 years; especially those who sat first in the Executive Council of the Assembly in 1992 and then in all the other references of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u72	It would be very nice to have such enthusiasm and joy for the enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court or of the Court of Human Rights in all cases. But let's just say in this House these days, we're making decisions about some decisions of the Constitutional Court that have been standing for years, which is a national disgrace, but they're being given nothing in every way. Apparently, it's a double standard and a double-cross. Where were you then? When it comes to the issue of injustice, I said in the end, and that is the point, all the injustices, if anyone has been committed by the state and its authorities, must be corrected, but the actual injustices and only those who have actually suffered injustice. And of course this is true, ladies and gentlemen, for everything in return, not just for that 25 years or so ago. But this applies to all decades before that, and of course it also applies to all the time after that. But when it comes to these injustices, it doesn't sound so good. As that general of the jugoarmada, including the leftist, said, clearly: “I can’t hear well.” At that time, however, it is a problem to correct injustices for back and injustices for back. Then, usually, a comparison with the fascists, the Nazis, and so forth, which is also an injustice, unless someone declares himself as such. Second, the question of what happened at the time we were talking about. I told you the circumstances. These were the circumstances of independence, the circumstances of the Yugoslav regime, which partly functioned in the part which it preserved from the former Austro-Hungarian era, and otherwise was the realization of the principle of disorganized chaos, in fact, in its final period of decomposition. At that time, permanent residence could also be registered at a non-existent address. Do you know that there were, like, 37 cases that were erased, and now I'm talking about 37? People who had a permanent residence — you cry out what terrible sacrifices they were — were reported at a nonexistent address that never existed. Not that he wasn't there that minute. He didn't exist. There was a case where someone was reported to one monument and similar nonsense. Or there were a hundred of them reported to one room alone. Which, by the way, is still happening today, which is another story, obviously we haven't learned anything from history. And so on. And they're supposed to send these people individual mail. And now that they're gone, he's screaming about injustice. Because that's really what the problem is. There were all-round ads, ladies and gentlemen, and I can go to the archive and bring them to you so you can see what it looked like. Throughout the newspaper, Work was this ad: Go, fix it. We gave every citizen who lived here. Anyone who was here in those days only if he gave up his role. No country in this world, at the time of its creation, has arranged this so arbitrarily. Take a look at the United Nations related website and you will also find the migration index or map of the world. Then click on Slovenia. It'll say there's one quarter of a million here, and 244,000, if I'm accurate, migrants. Why? Since they consider as migrants all those who were not born in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This is really a reflection of what we are saying today, of how arbitrarily Slovenia settled this issue. The vast majority of those who lived here and wanted to be loyal to the new country have also arranged this, without the slightest problem. Only the role had to be given. And then what happened? Those who opposed the creation of Slovenia, either passively or actively in the attack on Slovenia, threatened these people, made fools of them. Here I have a statement from Mr Aliyeski, who said how they made fun of him, that he was stupid and even threatened during that period. Such statements were then made to dozens. I also personally heard some who, at that time, were at our place in the Golden Field, where the officers' blocks were loudly squawking, that even JLA would settle with us and then they would not have anything with such a country. And, of course, they didn't play any roles. And you're here today talking about what a terrible injustice these people have been wronged. What kind of guilt? The fault is that taxpayers are paying for it today. And you shouldn't have to pay for that. Certainly not to all those covered by this, and certainly not to such an extent. Even less with such interest as your problem today, because it is entirely your fault. If we had adopted a constitutional law when we first proposed it, this problem would have been solved, believe it or not, some 15 years ago or earlier. And it's final. Do you know what that looked like in practice? This may be of interest to colleagues from SD. At the time, we sat together, I, on behalf of the SDS, and the SD secretary, one from the LDS, and we aligned the text so much that it was uniformly harmonised. And then this one carried him to Mr Drnovšek and Drnovšek had some bad ones, today they'd call it extreme lefties inside, and then he literally bullied those who didn't take it into account; although it was unanimous, it was still coordinated. And he threw it all away, and that's how this story started. And then this story kept repeating itself, and we made two more proposals. The first proposal has never been made public; it is therefore as much a witness as you want. The other two were public, and you wouldn't accept them. You've been making a fool of yourself. Am I starting to read again? On this basis there will be no compensation, SD, Miran Potch, Paula Gantar. In the current opposition, this is just an argument that there will be compensation. No, there won't be any compensation. Franco Juri: The law does not provide for any compensation such as this constantly and misleadingly repeated opposition. Milan Kučan: As far as compensation is concerned, they are not related to the issuing of decisions correcting this injustice. Borut Pahor: There is no legal, professional, or factual argument to conclude that any compensation could in any way endanger the public financial position of our country, at least in these times of crisis. I hear flat-rate estimates that the issuance of supplementary decisions means that everyone is subject to some compensation. That's not true. And so on and so on, until what I have read to you, which is indeed a creme de la creme, that no compensation has been paid and nor will it be, because it cannot be; and this terrible danger that Mr Grims likes to speak is just a fairy tale. Really? This fairy tale, ladies and gentlemen, is called €52 million, which you have already paid. And now that there's an extra amount at stake, you're listening to this a little bit less. You're not fixing any more injustices with this. If anyone had been harmed, it would have been a corrected injustice if, 15 years ago, he had received some compensation. It's actually just a waste of money today, it doesn't fix anything else. The law also states that compensation is only provided that it is paid within a reasonable period of time. In fact, this is also an additional one, which was then judged by the European Court of Justice that things did not move anywhere. However, they did not move because leftists pretended to be a fool for 10 years that there would be no compensation; and you went only to get as many as possible covered, so you wanted to stop without individual treatment, flat totaling as possible to have as many new voters as possible. It was just about voters. History is happening today with illegal migrants and this is repeating and breaking laws and doing things again. I've heard of it before — the claim to legality. Come on, then, why is Ahmad Shami walking in Slovenia?Oh, my God! It has already decided for six months that it should be moved to Croatia. Let me say something on the subject of social parasitism or what to say; but history does repeat itself if we do not learn anything from it. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if the rule of law, if the Constitution is respected, and the Constitution must apply equally to all, then it must apply to the correction of the injustices to all and to everyone who has been in any period, either the States of Slovenia or its direct predecessors, to the injustice committed; if this was 75 years ago, 70, 60, 50, 25 or 5 or nothing. Anyone who has been wronged by the State has the right to adequate compensation by the Constitution, but then you must have the same criteria for everyone, that is the problem and that is why we are always opening it up. Once again, what's most interesting in this story is whether you're sure there's no new injustice involved. I'm saying you are. One concrete case. At the Kran administration unit where I was working at the time, although I was also a member of the Assembly of Independence, we actually issued individual decisions, sent them to everyone where we had only their address. Most of them just came back, but we did. And some other administrative units did. That injustice that was brought before the Constitutional Court did not arise in this particular case because it could not have arisen. Besides being public calls and everything we've talked about. What happened? Now that you've adopted this legislation and these administrative units, where it's been so arranged, you haven't been exempt from it. How people are now being compensated for this if the injustice referred to in the Constitutional Court could not have arisen because individual decisions against whom they could complain were also sent to people. It's famous, we've talked about it here many times; individual calls, it's all been made. Some of the administrative units didn't do it, and some of them did. But it works on average for everyone. This means that the payment of compensation in this case is the doing of a new injustice, specifically to Slovenian taxpayers. I claim, however, that all of the work done together is a huge injustice to all the 170 thousand, who, in time, made a fair deposit and received Slovenian citizenship and arranged things in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. And also to all those tens of thousands who later did so on the basis of additional legislation, on the basis of these additional deadlines. That's the guilt. Do I read Mr. Aliyski's statement to you again? And that should be taken into account in this weighting. And why did the European Court of Justice so judge? For stalling because you pretended to be a fool that there would be no compensation at a time when our proposal would have to be settled in time. Some people here today even say they didn't want to settle down. From day one, we have advocated that all injustices should be corrected if they were actually done, but individually and only to those where this is actually found. Not just the average. What was going on back then? There was only a distortion of self-reliance. What is drawn in these statements, which are false, rude, misleading, I would say even worse; even today. They are mainly guilty of Slovenian independence until this great moment. What did RTV Slovenia do, for example, who remembers today? RTV Slovenia, as a victim of the advertisements paid with the money of the taxpayers of the compulsory subscription, i.e. Slovenian taxpayers, showed the personal documents of General Aksentijevic, who is here, in this hall, which was then a tinyly different form, threatening to fly blood in streams, how we will all pay with our lives what we do, and who was later trapped in Croatia, because he was not in Slovenia at all. What kind of victim is he, then?Oh, my God! The victims are those who pay such nonsense either in the form of a forced RTV subscription or in the form of various such compensations. And if someone does not have a positive attitude towards his own country, if he is more worthy of some pathetic political effect, making the appearance of how some injustice was done to someone, and thus condemns the most savvy, the most beautiful moment, the moment when the Slovenian nation became a nation, when it first got its own country, and this is the only goal, then it is not surprising if it opens the border over the years and says, "Come all, here, we will open the borders with the Marrakesh treachery, and everyone will come and pick this up our Slovenia." And then, of course, there's running out of money for Slovenians and Slovenians, for those 300,000 who live below the poverty line. Shortcoming for Slovenian children, for Slovenian health care. That's the attitude to your own country. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why patriotism is a fundamental value, a love for your country. She was, and she always will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor. The text is delivered by the representative of the Government, Minister of the Interior of Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your views in the first reading of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Reparation of Damage to Persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. Certainly interesting opinions. Once again, on 13 and 14 September, when I came to the Ministry of the Interior, I was informed by Mrs Vesna Györkös Žnidar that this matter had not yet been resolved and that it would have to be brought to the National Assembly and regulated by that date in January. Together at the Ministry of the Interior and in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and Finance, we have come up with a solution that is sustainable for our budget. We agree with the Government that the Constitutional Court's decision must also be respected and enforced and that the issue of the deleted must also be definitively resolved. Whether or not the European Court of Human Rights or before the Constitutional Court will repeal this law, we do not know at this time, but we want to respect and enforce this decision of the Constitutional Court if this law, which is proposed here, is finally adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? I see it's an interest. If he also wishes to discuss the Government's representative, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. I'm asking you to sign up. Everyone has five minutes. First it's mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u76	Thank you. Procedural first. President-in-Office, this is now as little as in the so-called deleted. I should be the last one to sign up for one purpose to respond to those who are going to debate. Can we make a deal and get a word in the end?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u77	I got information that there's no way to change the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u78	What we are witnessing today is, of course, the continuation of a story that has dragged on for 20 years; the great perplexity of how some injustices are being resolved, how human rights are being corrected, how many bombastic words are being said, and in fact, it was a single goal. This goal was to defile Slovenian independence. Why? Because some in Slovenian political independence did not have a clear conscience. You know, bad conscience is a bad thing, and the inexcusable fact is that the key independent documents that enabled Slovenia to make relatively quick and so successful independence were adopted by a single majority vote, while leftists then sabotaged where they could. According to her household, they gave out information that was of the most confidential nature. The last night, on the eve of independence, some of the key people of the then left met with the officers of the JLA counterintelligence service, all of which, of course, placed a lasting political burden on them. And what's the oldest left-wing trick? If you do something ugly, say something, pull something out of someone's pocket, say something else. In this case, it was exactly the same story. This so-called deleted was found. What was it really about, I said. For six months, people have been publicly called upon to play their role in the field of citizenship. Those who did not do so were simply transferred from one registry to another. Do you really believe this is so special? It is not surprising, therefore, if Dr. Jerovšek, as a constitutional lawyer, said that only the blind and the blind believed in that decision. In Austria, the principles on the basis of which Slovenian law was also written, that is from the old Austro-Hungarians, some principles of administrative procedure. When you're not sure where the addressee is, or you don't have a reliable address where he can send things, it's also enough in the most demanding proceedings, let's say the legacy to hang out somewhere for six months, no other public announcement is required in the media, but that he hangs somewhere, on the court's billboard, a public announcement, and after six months, that right falls. Someone in Austria can die if they say they don't have your address, maybe they just didn't want to give it to you, or whatever it is, it doesn't matter. Ladies and gentlemen, that's how it's done. Therefore, to say what a severe injustice this half-year period has been, not only in Slovenia, but also elsewhere, also abroad, beyond the borders, that it is necessary to arrange this for anyone who wants Slovenian citizenship to arrange it. There wasn't much injustice here. There could have been a series of circumstances, one of which I heard once that someone had been detained in a hospital and had to take care of. Okay, well, if it's just unfortunate guilt, let it work out, let it get paid, let it fix everything that can be fixed in return. And we could do that as soon as we know. But he didn't and why not. Because you left-handed fools have acted and cried out how there will be no compensation, that this does not have to be regulated in this way, that it is only by issuing decisions to prove what kind of injustice has been committed. There was a double political impact – for the acquisition of new, future voters and for piggybacking by the size of Slovenia's independence. The result is what we are witnessing today. With all the strong swearing that there will be no compensation because there can be no compensation, there are now 52 million euros paid and additional amounts are still at stake. Now you want to resort to restricting the law to something, and the big question is how much the Constitutional Court will give you in doing so. Surely you are not going to be helped by the troubles you left-handed men have cooked for ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just want to finish the thought because I listened to my first beep earlier in the debate. Since you have always opposed this issue, it is always clear that the deleted do not deserve any compensation, you would assume that you will support at least the solution to limit the interest referred to in this Title; and this limit only to the extent that they cannot exceed the height of the principal in this way. As it is said, we could save 53 million and 54 million euros that could be spent on a number of proposals, perhaps those that the SDS has; and in any case, to provide a social state. And then I turned to Levi, and I said that I appreciate the many suggestions that he has, give me thought, respect; but I would like them to think more and more about that each little one has just so much and so much volume, volume, every pot only so many liters and so on. Where's it coming from? The armors just can't be the answer to all the questions. I would expect this from one constructive opposition, even though many lawyers have already stated in the first case and also in the second case that, in weighing human rights, the pursuit of this goal is, in order to limit the height, certainly a constitutionally permissible and legitimate objective. This is the second protection of human rights which the State is obliged to ensure in accordance with the principle of the social state. After this dictatorship of what is constitutionally permissible, it is not a strange solution, and even after limiting late interest and other interest, it is a solution that our legal system knows. I think that this solution proposed by the government could be very appropriate here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Trček has the floor, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I expect Mrs. Kociper to apologize to me. Why? The most common word I used in a previous reference and even now, is money. If anyone really thinks about the revenue side of the budget, it's Left, not someone else. I expect him to apologize to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u83	Dr. Milan Brglez has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President. In this conclusion, I would only try to clarify one thing. The erasure couldn't get rid of the self-sustainment. The reason is very simple. The conquest took place before it was erased. The deletion also took place after the adoption of the Slovenian Constitution, not only the completion of the process of self-reliance. It is true that we have not yet been internationally recognised, but this does not play any role in the very establishment of the country. It's a basic matter. And don't defend this thing that way. However, it has a great deal to do with how this country operates and respects its constitution. And respect for this Constitution is based on this framework adopted in December 1991 and in the previous framework, which was also a constitutional framework. It was the same both times. With regard to the fundamental, fundamental thing, that rights are not regulated differently than with the law. Not with rules, not with administrative acts. And simply the executive branch does not have that right. And that was already in force when it was done. We are reminded of this by the European Court of Human Rights. This is a fundamental act, a fundamental fact that needs to be known. And again, again, again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again. Nationality and permanent residence are not the same. Having the right to permanent residence is one thing, having the right to citizenship is another. And the fact that we had the most liberal legislation regarding citizenship is true. And that was also recognized as regards citizenship. Not the deprivation of the right to permanent residence that existed at the time. The creation of a new state of human rights is not as interested in this as anything else. And those who existed until then must be respected. The legal order was also set up in such a way that it constituted the continuity of the rule of law in these respects. With political discontinuity and all that stuff; yes, fine, but these facts exist. And keep repeating this thing, even though this matter is judged at that point when it has to be. It means not to respect the Court's decision, nor to respect the decision of the predecessors of this Parliament, among other things, which, without any reservation, acceded to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And at least in this regard, I am pleased that there was at least one authority in this country that was then able to see this unconstitutional void that remained, and that was the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court did not respond, the European Court of Human Rights could not have reacted, because there was no basis on which it could be responsible for something that happened in 1992, because we joined in 1994. These are fundamental facts. And these are the facts that are relevant to this case. And as I said before, what scares me in the whole matter is the administrative way that this was done. And what I am glad is that there was another part of this story at the same time, that the whole administration was not one to lead this story in this way, with the support of politics, including yours. But there was also another part that remained human and remained within the constitutional framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in 15 minutes in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4.20 p.m. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 4.06 p.m. and resumed at 16.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u86	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, with the assembly voting on the following order: items 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019, urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the law has been adopted and thus conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law amending the Law on Minimum Wages in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. At the same time, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. I take it that Mr Luka Mesec wishes to speak on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u87	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! First of all, I would like to thank all Members and Members for the very cultural debate that we had at the time of the consideration of the Minimum Wages Act, and also for the practical two-thirds support, the constitutional majority, at the time of the previous reading of the law, on which I count it will be today. In particular, after the last serious increase in minimum wage in 2010 and 2011, the minimum wage has practically stagnated, hanging there somewhere at the threshold of minimum living costs. Today, after we press the "for" button, we will decide that after eight years we will take care of two serious annual raises, it is 30 euros each year, the target number 700 with 1 January next year; and that it will be impossible at legal level for minimum wage to slip at any time below the poverty risk threshold. This is a systemic assurance that no one who works will be put under the poverty risk threshold. Who's that gonna be good for? Of course, this is primarily good for the worst paid in this country. About 120 thousand people work for salaries less than €700 a month, and all of this will be known within a good year. Economic growth will finally reach their wallets and transaction accounts. Second of all, it's good for development. Low labour costs allow less productive companies to keep themselves alive by competing with low wages. If the state forces wages to rise, less productive companies must restructure and compete with innovation and efficiency, which I think is the common goal of all of us. And thirdly, this will be good for the general mood in the country. If you look in France, where the president is implementing another programme – a programme to lower taxes on businesses and the rich, while also higher taxes on the public sector's poor and cut sectors – you see that this policy is over in Europe. Neoliberalism in Europe is dead, and I hope that raising the minimum wage is the first measure that shows the direction of this government and that in the coming year we will do everything to improve the situation of pensioners, reptiles, young people looking for housing, those who cannot find jobs, because that is the only way we can truly bring prosperity to everyone. I think that Slovenia has a nice opportunity to start showing the way to all those countries that are looking for a new social model for the 21st century. We're going to vote in Levica, of course. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-13-SDZ8-Izredna-17.ana.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Reparation of Damage to Persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Act on the Reparation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 9. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. With this, honourable Members, I conclude this agenda item and the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice evening.
