ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Victory by Jelinčič Trimeniti, Violeta Tomić, Dr. Franc Trček, Miha Kordiš, Andrej Šircelj, Dr. Milan Brglez until 16.30, Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec, Bojan Podkrodšek and Jelka Godec. I invited representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council of Justice and representatives of the Government. I welcome everyone here. Dear Members, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 4 October 2018, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, and we have all voted in favour of the agenda. I therefore note that the agenda of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a Governor _– a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. On 19 September 2018, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that Boštjan Jazbec, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, be dismissed on 30 April 2018. I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic Nataša Kovac for an additional explanation of the proposal. Mrs. Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! Allow me to begin by thanking the leaders of the parliamentary groups for participating in several consultations on the proposed candidacy of Dr Primož Dolenca for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. The President of the Republic fully appreciates your cooperation in preparing his proposals and absolutely respects your autonomy in making decisions. He would like to draw attention to the following as a candidate for this time's candidacy. First time. Dr Primož Dolenc provides a successful combination of knowledge and experience for the efficient, professional and independent management of such an important institution. He is currently a successful Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije. Dr. Dolenc has made a public statement. He made his vision of the Bank of Slovenia clear. In particular, he stressed his commitment to greater transparency and rationalisation of its business. Undoubtedly, he answered all current questions, records, even anonymous, and criticisms. No public question remained unanswered. Members and Members of Parliament have also received some clarifications in writing. Another time. Dr. Dolenc is one of the newly appointed vice-governors of Banka Slovenije. In January 2016, he was elected by more than a convincing majority of the Members of the then General Assembly. Third time. In their discussions with the parliamentary groups, two others were also mentioned as potential candidates, Dr Igor Masten and Dr Damjan Kozamernik. After all consultations, it can be clearly and unequivocally concluded that none of the candidates and other candidates mentioned outside the tender enjoy sufficient support at this time. If any of the other candidates had shown it, the President of the Republic would have proposed it. Therefore, it is highly likely that, in the event of a non-election of the proposed candidate in repeated procedures, too, any other candidate could be overly supported. The bank may be without leadership for a long time. However, the procedure for electing the Governor will coincide with the procedure for selecting the Constitutional Judge and the Ombudsman, which may lead to a politically strong entanglement. In view of these circumstances, the President of the Republic therefore considered that it was right to propose to Dr Primož Dolenc for the following reasons: the repeated postponement of the decision was not acceptable since the decision had already been postponed. In April this year, in agreement with all the parliamentary groups, it was decided that the new governor should be decided on by a new call from the National Assembly. The President of the Republic of Slovenia specifically warned about this at the June founding session of the National Assembly. Dr Primož Dolenc is a suitable, professionally competent candidate with a clearly and publicly presented vision and without any serious reservations about his work as Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Finally, he proposed it because it was possible to assume that further discussions after a public presentation could prove the most acceptable choice among all candidates. Fourth time. The Bank of Slovenia has been without a governor for five months. This fact already affects Slovenia's reputation and position at European level, as the Deputy Governor does not have the full powers to decide on the Council of the European Central Bank. Your Honor! Allow me to reiterate that two more important human rights decisions are before us in the coming weeks: the appointment of a Constitutional Judge or a Judge and the appointment of a Ombudsman who needs a two-thirds majority to be elected. It will depend on our successful cooperation and every wise assessment whether or not we will ensure the smooth management and functioning of the relevant institutions of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Ivan Hršk to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u4	Thank you for your words, distinguished President, distinguished Secretary General Natasha Kovac, distinguished colleague and colleague! At its 4th urgent meeting, on 4 October 2018, the Commission considered as a working mother the proposal for the appointment of the Governor of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, EPA 168-VIII (hereinafter referred to as the proposal) under Article 35 and Article 37(4) of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 12/06, Officially purified text 59/11 and 55/17 (‘ZBS-1’), to the National Assembly 19. 9. 2018 transmitted by the President of the Republic of Slovenia (hereinafter referred to as the President of the Republic). The proposal is accompanied by an agreement on the proposal to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the first paragraph of Article 152 provides that Slovenia shall have a central bank which, in its operation, is independent and responsible directly to the National Assembly and is established by law. In the second paragraph of the same Article, it further provides that the Governor of the Central Bank shall be appointed by the National Assembly. Article 28 of the ZBS-1 provides that the organs of Banka Slovenije are the Governor of Banka Slovenije and the Council of Banka Slovenije. The first and second paragraphs of Article 30 provide that the Council of the Bank of Slovenia shall consist of 5 members, namely the Governor and 4 Vice-Governors, and that the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia shall be the President of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Pursuant to Article 35 ZBS-1 appoints the Governor of the National Assembly for 6 years on a proposal from the President of the Republic and may be reappointed. The procedure for appointing members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia shall be specified by the ZBS-1 in the provisions of Article 37. Article 37(5) of the ZBS-1 provides that the National Assembly shall vote on the proposed candidate for a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia within 30 days of the submission of the proposal. The vote shall be secret and the proposed candidate shall be appointed if it is voted on by a majority of all Members. The meeting was attended by Nataša Kovac, Secretary-General at the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, who summarized the key reasons for the decision of the President of the Republic to propose that candidate. In the discussion, the proposed candidate was announced the support of the Social Democrats' Group, the Modern Centre's Party, the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners, the Slovenian National Party and the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. The members of the Levica Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party have, however, denied the candidate's support and, among other reasons, cited the lack of personal integrity of the candidate, as well as the lack of views and activities of all the candidates who have been reported as regards past disputed developments in Slovenian banks. Due to the unanimity of its members to the proposed candidate, the Group of Letters of Marjan Sarca announced the uneven vote of its Members at the meeting of the National Assembly. The Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek, pointed out that the proposed candidate did not go out in comparison with the others, so it announced an appropriate vote at the meeting. Following the discussion, the Mandate-Volution Commission adopted the following decision: The Mandate-Volution Commission proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed candidate, Dr Primož Dolenca, be appointed Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The decision to appoint a candidate shall be taken by secret ballot by a majority of all Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hršak. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues! Yes, we are, and we live in Slovenia. Today we decide on an important function or one of the more important functions that we will put at the head of this important function. In recent months, the Social Democrats have conducted many interviews with candidates who have been eager to apply for this call. In the parliamentary group we have interviewed all five candidates and in fact I will say, both their values and their view, how they feel about such an important institution as the Bank of Slovenia, leading for the next six years. In view of what we have agreed, we have made it clear to the President of the State, Mr Pahor, who we consider to be a suitable candidate for managing this important function. I must say that there were two people for us who could easily lead this institution, Mr Bosniak and Mr Dolenc. Mr President decided, in the light of the discussions with the other parliamentary groups, that, in the procedure to elect Mr Primož Dolenc, we agreed. However, as I said at the outset, we live in Slovenia. All of a sudden, the anonymity began, and suddenly, the search for everything that the candidate had done wrong began. He started with a media stunt. These facts have not swayed us in our position and we remain firm in supporting Mr Dolenc as governor. We are aware that if he does not receive support, this important institution will continue without leadership and a new call will have to be made. However, I now call on some to act through the media to be governors, not to be overly different politicians, but to be certain governors, to simply apply in life, to go through the procedure and then to convince the majority in the National Assembly. This majority is, as far as we are concerned, Mr Dolenc has convinced us and we will give these votes today. Of course, we are aware that there will be a number of important functions to be voted on in the National Assembly in the coming months. Given the number of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, this will be extremely difficult. That is why I am "buying" what Mrs Secretary-General said that this moment should be blue and put political colours aside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Han. Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Madam Secretary-General, Office of the President of the Republic, colleague and colleague! The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor proposed to the National Assembly for the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia Dr Primož Dolenc, the current Vice Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Governor Jazbec's term has ended in 30 years. April. For more than five months now, Banka Slovenije has not had full-fledged leadership, which, according to the responsibility of the central bank, is not good for the functioning of the banking and financial system. Further deferral by appointment with a possible recurrence of the procedure would extend this period for a further period of several months. If the current situation is bad, there is no need to dwell on the fact that delaying this election will make the situation worse. The President of the Republic decided to be Dr. Dolenca of the five proposed candidates. Dr Dolenc is a recognized expert with a PhD in economics, rich experiences in government, higher education and the economy. With his more than two-year experience as vice-governor and as deputy governor, when he has been effectively leading the Bank of Slovenia for almost half a year, he has demonstrated his competence to perform the function for which he is proposed. In his public presentation, which he made last but not least in our parliamentary group, in part in the Cabinet of the President of the Republic, he highlighted the importance of timely recognition of macroeconomic challenges, enhanced supervision of the banking and financial system, an active and identifiable role in the Eurosystem, the effectiveness of the functioning of the institution, and increasing the reputation and confidence of the Slovenian public. What he said at the presentation of the Modern Centre Party Group – these are issues that are also relevant to our Members – is that, in order to achieve transparent functioning and to allow for external supervision of the bank, he sees the vision of the party also in what has proved to be problematic in the past and may also be highlighted in its nomination. Among other things, he said that he wanted the Court of Auditors to exercise its role of supervision in the regularity and prudence of the Bank of Slovenia and announced that it would continue to reorganise and rationalise in order to increase the efficiency of the decision-making process. Our parliamentary group has conducted interviews, presentations, with all five candidates. We estimate that the number of candidates, that is five candidates, is relatively large, given that this is a specific area where experts are relatively few and it would be right to unify and vote at least one in view of this large number of the National Assembly. In the parliamentary group, we assessed that Mr Dolenc and Mr Bosnjak had been cut off as the best candidates. The President of the Republic of Slovenia decided, after talking with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, to propose one of them and we will support him in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Zorcich. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. There is no doubt that the Bank of Slovenia, during the last years of Governor Jazbec, has lost its reputation for democratic legitimacy and transparency of business. We all know the story of too much and most likely the unnecessary rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, where we are taxpayers, the real payers in the budget, according to Dr Bolet's accounts and many other economists contributed a billion and a half more than they should. We all know the story with Swiss credits where Banka Slovenije stood on the side of large banks and did not warn informed consumers about the risks posed by foreign currency credits. We are all well aware and will face the consequences of decommissioning NKBM and NLB bond holders in this mandate, which will allow hundreds of millions of Euros of lawsuits to fall on the state budget. The problem with Mr Dolenc, proposed by the President of the State as Governor, is that he represents the continuity of representing the status quo. Since 2016, Sam has been the Deputy Governor of the Bank and in recent months since the resignation of Mr. Jazbec also v. d. Governor of the Bank. Working at this time, however, shows that it deviates significantly from what he has promised Members and Members in his presentations. Mr Dolenc has clearly promised that the Court of Auditors will be able to begin to play its role, namely control over the Bank of Slovenia. Well, anyway, at the time of his vice-governance and science, the practice was completely different. In 2017, we adopted a new Law on Banka Slovenije last year, after which the Court of Auditors could finally begin to revise the Bank of Slovenia by making a big exception, it is said that the Court of Auditors does not even get an insight into the determination and implementation of monetary policy that remains within the European Central Bank domain. The Bank of Slovenia, of course, did not accept this and filed a constitutional complaint against it. Similarly, we have seen the obstruction of the investigation of the National Investigation Office. In view of the reasonable suspicion of several crimes related to the rehabilitation of banks, which I have already mentioned and the decommissioning of the owners of subordinated bonds, the National Investigation Office has commissioned an investigation into the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia is ultimately a 100% state-owned institution and there is no reason why this institution should not be investigated, like all others, even in the case of suspected crimes. Well, the National Bureau of Investigation seized some computers with data last summer 2016, after the Bank of Slovenia, together with the European Central Bank, complained that this was illegal. State Prosecutor Zvonko Fischer replied that this was in line with constant practice, and Banka Slovenije and the ECB filed a constitutional complaint and thereby rejected the investigation, of course again in order to rescue the Bank of Slovenia's senior officials from prosecution. With this, citizens have been informed again that their officials are willing to support even crime in the Bank of Slovenia as an institution. By virtue of Dolenc's position as vice-governor, he has done nothing to change, delay or at least cast a shadow of doubt on these practices. These are the reasons why Primož Dolenec cannot be supported today. But I'll tell you one last, third reason, that's politics. The independence of the Bank of Slovenia, to which it refers, is not a matter of nature, but is a political decision of the capitalist governments in the West of the last 20, 30 years to exempt monetary policy from political decision-making by countries or national assemblies. This only means that the power of the financial sector against citizens is increasing disproportionately. And it starts to apply what he has already pointed out to Honore de Balzac 150 years ago, it is said that we are increasingly dividing ourselves into two castes, debtors and creditors, with all of us becoming debtors of the caste of financial capital, and this has proved in recent years in the practice of Banka Slovenije, which has made a great effort for all of us as residents of a country to become debtors of international capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u11	Thank you for your opinion. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary-General, Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs. Natasa Kovac, dear colleague, dear colleagues! In New Slovenia, we believe that the Bank of Slovenia is ahead of the key challenges posed by the possible new financial and economic crisis. Therefore, Nova Slovenija expects the future leadership of the Bank of Slovenia to be one that will be part of the solution or solution to problems in the event of a banking crisis. In our opinion, Banka Slovenije has not performed its supervisory function in the event of the laundering of Iranian money. In New Slovenia, we also estimate that rejection of the proposal opens up opportunities for a more optimal candidate. I have also made this position very clear to the President of the Republic in the context of consultations on this very important function. The new Slovenia will not support the candidate for governor, even though we supported him as vice-governor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Party Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished president, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, a very nice greeting to everyone on my behalf! In Alenka Bratušek, of course, we remember the crisis too well in 2013, when the country was just ahead of bankruptcy, and in the state budget it was only for a few months, for two or three months, funds for pension payments, payment of doctors, nurses, teachers and so on. The Bank of Slovenia, which has contributed significantly to this situation, has also contributed, in our view, to the fact that it did not perform its supervisory functions well enough during that period. It followed an urgent, swift and, in our opinion, an effective rehabilitation of banks when it was important who was the governor at the head of this important institution. And in our opinion, the then Governor, Mr Jazbec, enjoyed the indisputable competences recognized by all representatives of the domestic and foreign professional public. However, as already mentioned, he has also been subject to discredits and instigations, as well as to some serious negative accusations. And today we're looking for a new governor. The old governor, however, offers his expertise and competence elsewhere, abroad. But according to everything, it's very important to us at the Alenka Bratusek Party who is the governor. And at the beginning of this selection process, we have said that we do not see such a person among the five registered candidates. Our position has been clear in this respect since the beginning. In doing so, I have to agree with the predecessor, who notes that many competent people do not apply for public calls in this country, because everyone in turn is already suffering from discredits at the time of the invitation to tender, the search for errors, sometimes even the media pogrom. In my opinion, one of the worst crises that our country is experiencing right now is the governance crisis, which I intend to point out more than once in this mandate. However, we wish for the Governor of Banka Slovenije a competent, moral, upright and professional integrity personality, unfortunately, as it is said, we have not recognized in this invitation to tender. Competence for the vice-governor is something entirely different, in our opinion, than the powers of the governor. But once again, in our opinion, the best have not reported and I hope that it will be in the future if the election does not come, otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Kociper. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u16	President, thank you for your word. The Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic is also welcome. I welcome all Members and Members! The role of Banka Slovenije has changed with the entry into the euro area, becoming part of the European Central Bank. The Governor of the Bank is also a member of the Council of the European Bank and Slovenia has no say in the voting until the appointment of the new Governor, so we want the Governor to be appointed as soon as possible. It is crucial that Banka Slovenije starts operating in the full composition. The Bank of Slovenia co-forms, enforces and supervises the system of rules for the safe and sound operation of banks and savings banks, and regularly monitors and analyses banks for financial stability. In the Desus Group, we are aware that it is important for the reputation and public opinion of the Financial Council that Slovenia obtains the Governor as soon as possible. Today we will decide on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor to appoint Dr Primož Dolenc as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Each of the applied candidates was also present in our parliamentary group. It is true that the candidates have benefited from the opportunity to tell Members and Members of our Group what we, of course, also wanted to hear. On the basis of what we have said, we have also drawn up our own opinion, which I will also say below. We all live in the same country, where we still feel the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. Nor has a bank recovery been forgotten, which demanded a dizzying amount of taxpayer money at the expense of our people. And as a result of all this, in our Group of Members, we believe that the new Governor must have broad support from the National Assembly as well as, of course, from other institutions in the country. At the so-called hearing held by the candidates for the governor in our country, as I mentioned earlier, it has turned out that the visions of some candidates correspond to our views on what management of this institution must be. And I will conclude by saying that everyone is also aware of my statement that I made when I was with President Pahor, that Primož Dolenc is not our first choice, but that he is a candidate for whom we have assessed in the Desus Group that we can trust him with the management of the national central bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Jursha. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues! In the SDS Group, we have examined all the candidates in detail and have already announced at the dedications that we cannot support any of the proposed candidates, not for reasons not to be professionally qualified, but for other reasons, which I will also mention. And, of course, we will not support the candidate for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Dr Primož Dolenc, in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor proposed Primož Dolenc, Deputy Governor and member of the Board of the Bank and the current Vice-Governor. President Pahor considers that the candidate fulfils the high professional criteria and has the necessary experience to perform this function, but after a number of formal and informal discussions with the Heads of the Parliament's parliamentary groups, he notes that the proposed candidate does not have the majority of the votes of Members and Members guaranteed. In his professional career, Dr. Primož Dolenc served as Director of the Treasury Sector at Abanka Vipa, d.d., between 2006 and 2008, while from 2013 to 2016 he was Director of the Risk Management Sector at the National Bank of Slovenia, and from 2016 onwards he is Deputy Governor and a member of the Board of the Bank of Slovenia. So he also had an important banking job at the time of the bank hole. The operation of Banka Slovenije since 2016, so since its member was also Primož Dolenc, can be described as passive. We have not detected any measures from the Bank of Slovenia to establish an effective system for preventing money laundering and detecting and sanctioning banking crime. Banka Slovenije has still not clarified the cost of transferring bad bank claims to a bad bank or the question of whether the taxpayers overpaid the rehabilitation of state banks in 2013. In addition, the problem remains that subordinated bank liabilities have been removed, despite the fact that the parliamentary commission of inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the identification of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone, led by Dr. Anže Logar, has prepared a very accurate and well-founded report on these abuses, especially the Farrokh case, where a billion-dollar money laundering took place in the largest state bank. Both reports were endorsed by the National Assembly in its previous composition by virtually unanimity, without a vote against, including concrete proposals for complaints for the most responsible persons submitted to the competent institutions. Banka Slovenije is aware of this, but there is no action. The responsibility for such passive operation of the Bank of Slovenia is also borne by its member, Deputy Governor Primož Dolenc, who has all the powers and responsibility to act and, if necessary, also publicly points to irregularities. In the event of a scandal involving the laundering of some EUR 200 billion at the Estonian branch of Denmark Bank, its Executive Director immediately withdrew. The Danish prosecutors immediately began to investigate the case. The Danish Central Bank also launched investigations immediately. In the case of washing at the largest NLB state bank, nothing happened, no one took responsibility for it, but they did, and the investigation of the case by the detection and prosecution authorities did not give any results at least for the time being. To date, denial of facts and non-action does not give confidence in the proposed candidate that it will work differently in the new situation. The same was true for all other candidates who had the opportunity to act in their positions, and so far they have done absolutely nothing in this area. For these reasons, the candidate for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia will not receive the support of members of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Guilty. And lastly, Mr Brane Golubovic, position of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u20	Your Honor, a very nice greeting to you all! Repeating the same patterns, things, procedures, and at the same time expecting something to change, is madness if we re-examine Einstein's thought a little bit. In LMŠ, we ask ourselves whether we will make any changes if we continue with old practice that does not bring about any changes. This practice led to a major banking crisis 10 years ago, which Banka Slovenije did not know or wanted to detect. These practices could also be listed and listed. The responsibility for a bank hole of EUR 5 billion EUR 5 000 million, or five lines of Divac-Koper, is, of course, primarily on the management and supervisors, according to former NLB leaders and supervisors, NKBM, Banka Celje. So those who lost their memory a year ago in this house, in the National Assembly, before investigative groups, and today some of them are still part of the banking and economic elite. The country and its governments are also responsible for the banking collapse. We all own state property, and the government is our only representative in managing it. And even in this institution, we must not run from responsibility. Article 152 of the Constitution provides that the Bank of Slovenia directly corresponds to the National Assembly. What kind of governor do we want in the LMŠ? The trust of a worthy governor who will ensure that Banka Slovenije is able to respond to risks and changing circumstances. A governor who will act openly and defend transparency. A brave governor who will help clarify why a bank hole was created is to say the causes and explore developments at the time of bank rehabilitation. The Governor, who will allow the Court of Auditors to carry out the audit. A credible governor who understands that the autonomy of Banka Slovenije does not mean that we have a country in the country, but are the leaders and employees of Banka Slovenije in the service of the state and its citizens. The Governor, who is aware that Banka Slovenije is directly responsible to the National Assembly and must work more closely with it. A confident governor who will defend the interests of our country in the EU institutions and in the European Central Bank. Finally, an ambitious governor who will be challenged by the work of the Bank of Slovenia and not a step forward for a better position in the EU institutions. Under these criteria, we have spoken to all five candidates in the LMŠ, and these will be the criteria by which we will evaluate candidates in the second round of the governor's election. Finally, let me propose to the National Assembly that, in cooperation with all the parliamentary groups, we form an independent expert group to invite domestic and foreign experts to examine the circumstances and factors for the banking collapse and its resolution. They did this courageously in Iceland. This way we can restore trust. In the LMŠ we are aware that much work has been done in the previous mandate with the two investigative commissions and here goes the gift to Dr Logar and Mr Möderndorfer, but we must continue our work. We need catharsis, cleansing if we are to continue without hints, rumors and ever new stories. We need to open up and clean up this filthy wound, no matter how painful it gets. If we do not explore the past and point to those responsible, we will insist that some remain untouchable in Slovenia. We will continue to undermine confidence in the rule of law. The bank hole and the reasons behind it will be just another story that separates our people. There is more at stake here than concrete financial damage, there is confidence in state institutions, confidence in our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Golubovic. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I inform you that we have three Members and Members of Parliament, as the first Lady Lidija Divac Mirnik, and that Mr Robert Polnar is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Good-bye! My debate will refer to the role and responsibility of Banka Slovenije in deleting about 100,000 small shareholders of NKBM. In the vast majority of cases it was mainly for the Mariborians or Styjerce, who were also longtime residents of this bank and, of course, had very high confidence in it. And what happened? Practically overnight, they lost all their assets or at least the ones they invested in the bank. I would like to quote a contribution from the Evening Watch, written by the well-deserved Professor Dr. Peter Glavic, which reads as follows: "When Greece did not repay loans to private German and French banks, they had to be saved by all EU countries, Slovenia even with an average high share. When Slovenian banks were in difficulty with lending companies in the crisis, because foreign banks had stopped extending their loans, it was necessary to decommit shareholders and subordinated bonds and sell out banks.” End of quote. It would not be necessary to debate that, according to some estimates, they should invest at least 1.5 billion more in Slovenian banks than was required by the most pessimistic estimates. To pay as much for the valuation of credits and real estate and stress tests as the Spanish pay for 48 times the size of the banking system. That, after the disappearance of small shareholders of NKBM, confidence in the Slovenian banking system has decreased, which is particularly problematic, because the confidence of citizens in developing financial systems is even more important because in Slovenia, unfortunately, there was no such tradition. However, it seems important to me that small deleted shareholders get the answers to the key questions, and these are: for the first time, who is responsible for their removal; for the second time, why they had to participate in the recovery of the Greek debt, and for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, the innocent victims who lost their assets; and for the third time, who would correct their wrongs and return their deposits or shares to them in a fair amount. These are questions to be answered. The Bank of Slovenia should, once and for all, be definitive and transparent, so that it is understandable to each of these 100,000 deleted shareholders of the NKBM, to answer these three key questions. Trust in the monetary system is crucial for a normal and predictable economic policy that ensures a stable business environment in which development is, of course, possible. We are obliged to give our citizens these answers. We are obliged to give answers to all 100,000 citizens who have shown confidence in our banking system by purchasing shares of NKBM. We are obliged to give these answers to all those of the 100,000 NKBM shareholders who may be in social distress at this time and who would be very much in the fair value of those deleted shares at this time. We owe it to people to provide these answers even if we want people to still trust in our system. Therefore, the new governor must demonstrate his clear will and commitment to transparently complete all causes and also the height of the bank hole. And that's what I want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Now it is Mr Robert Polnar's turn to prepare Luka Moon as the last.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen! When deciding on the Governor of Banka Slovenije, it is appropriate to speak first about the fundamental postulate of the institution that will lead – this is its independence. During the 1990s, a high level of consensus was reached that central banks must be independent in defining and managing monetary policy. This means the full independence of the central bank in the monetary sphere and the exclusion of the government's influence, according to the Ministry of Finance, on its functioning. The independence of central banks is based on a logic that seems consistent. The central bank's primary task is to maintain price stability and this should be an apolitical objective. The Governor does not vote in elections, so he does not have to promise everything possible or use budgetary resources irresponsibly to increase the possibility of re-election. The horizon of the operation of the central bank is not from today to tomorrow and it is not from one election to another, the central bank has no political objectives, has no ideological prejudices and is not customer-defined, has to be politically neutral and is a pillar of monetary and economic stability. At least that's what theory is. The European Central Bank is particularly careful not to see the potential loss of independence of the Bank of Slovenia, i.e. because the independence of the Bank of Slovenia is the foundation on which the numerous successes of the Slovenian economy over the past decade are based. At first glance, the European Central Bank's request is logical and correct. What, though, may be at stake in the request of the central bank to be independent? The experience of countries such as Slovenia shows that everything or almost everything is at stake. The independence of the central bank is a concept transferred from the most developed countries; the economic structure is built there, capital is available to the economy at a reasonable price, and central banks are primarily concerned with maintaining financial stability at a low inflation rate. There is no need for an emphasis on development policy. Metaphorically speaking, the economies of these countries are on an automatic pilot and the central banks are just a kind of flight control. There are significant differences in the priorities of countries that are not at such a high level of development as they require strong and coordinated development policies. In this context, the Central Bank must continue to cooperate and coordinate its policy with the government's development policy, cannot and must not ignore developments in the real economy, especially the rates of economic growth and unemployment, which means that it must support the country's development policy in order to ensure an adequate low level of inflation. The formal independence of the central bank does not in any way mean its actual independence, whatever the regulation already says, but the central bank can be politically influenced and listen to signals coming from the political sphere, even though such signals can be suppressed, and it is impossible to ignore the interests of the banking sector. As a rule, central banks are sensitive to the interests of the banking sector; also because their leading people come from this sector and tend to pursue their careers there after they leave the central bank. In short and direct; central banks are never independent; they are always subordinated to one of the centres of economic or political power. The independence or neutrality of the central bank is a myth. It is not necessary that the central bank is formally independent, that it is guided in accordance with the interests of the Slovenian economy and is led by responsible professionals and must be accountable to the National Assembly for their work. Is today's candidate capable of such a mission? We will soon see — provided that he is elected. Otherwise, I think that the whole event concerning the appointment of the Governor of Banka Slovenije is a form of characterisation of local mentality. A small part of the imaginary Slovenian elite has proved by its procedures that philosophy is an absolute absolute, not a coincidence. It may be possible that, together, or all together, there will be benefits in terms of public awareness that the President of the Republic can repeat calls for the choice of candidates indefinitely and that the outcome will not be significantly different from today's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The last word you have is Luke Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. I'm going to have a bit of a squabble. It is not true that the central bank has no political objectives; each central bank has political objectives. The US Central Bank and most modern central banks have two top objectives; one is, and the first is usually, full employment. It is said that more than money is being put into circulation by the bank in times of crisis and so on, economic activity is increasing and the employment of the economy is increasing. Second, most banks maintain low levels of inflation. The European Central Bank is a unique one, because the European Central Bank has no first objective; it is said that it is not interested in ensuring a high level of employment. All she cares about is the second goal: maintaining a low level of inflation. And that's an explicit political goal. This explicit political objective is also in the interest of a particular group of people, these are capital owners. Because inflation, if you have some capital, can reduce inflation over the years. If a low level of inflation is ensured, this capital is maintained or can be more easily nobled. Economists have made a lot of controversy in history. John Maynard Keynes was explicitly opposed to ensuring a low level of inflation because he said that a low level of inflation does not force capital owners into productive investments but allows them to either keep their money in the form of savings or use it for speculative purposes. And this was happening in his time, which he was accompanying, in the 20th and 30th years of the previous century, as it is now. And this is the political structure of the institution that subordinated itself to monetary authority on this continent, and this is the European Central Bank. The candidates for the governor, including Primož Dolenc, whom we will vote on today, have not spoken a word of this. Our Governor of Banka Slovenije will be one of the decision makers at the European Central Bank and they are obviously not disturbed. They do not mind that the European Central Bank does not have the goal of ensuring full employment, so it is not necessary to be a socialist or otherwise politically left-handed; it is enough to look over the meadow and you will see how the US Central Bank is faster and significantly more effective, precisely because of its different political orientation, has resolved the effects of the crisis, which has affected both America and Europe in 2008. They already have economic growth somewhere from 2010 onwards. In Europe, we were in the crisis years after, or some countries are still, and the political crisis is a reflection of it. This is due to this defence of monetary policy autonomy. Another problem that our candidates have not addressed is the question – again crucial to the European Central Bank – of who and what this bank should finance. For the European Central Bank has written down in its Statute that it must not finance the Member States. She says she won't finance them because it can lead to moral gambling. But what this policy is leading to is this: the banks were the ones that were at the top of the responsibility for the crisis, bad credits were accumulated in the banks, and the banks were, because they were no longer solvable, they started calling on countries to help them solve their debt. The European Central Bank has not helped these countries to save banks, but has allowed these countries to now be in charge of the financial sector, it is said, for those banks that are essentially saving banks with this money. That's the circle they made. This is once again a matter that none of the candidates have warned about and apparently does not bother them. If we continue along the same paths as we did, not only at home, as I said in my position earlier, but also in relation to the central bank in Frankfurt, we cannot promise different results in a short time. Some warn that the next crisis may be at the door. The mentality that we could identify with the candidates for governors, unfortunately, remains exactly the same as it was in 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u27	Thank you, Your Honor. This brings us to the conclusion of the debate in which Mrs Nataša Kovac gets the floor on behalf of the proposer, this is the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u28	Allow only a brief explanation in relation to some of the arguments in the debate which I draw from the explanations and public presentations made by Dr Dolenc's candidate and which stem from the facts cited. It is clear that Dr Dolenc can present continuity and no interruptions with the old practices that were in the Bank of Slovenia prior to his election, only to say that Dr Dolenc made it clear in his explanations and public presentation that in May 2018 the Bank of Slovenia decided in the world of banks to withdraw all open legal disputes at the Constitutional and Administrative Court, which had been raised before that, except that which is currently in force in the Constitutional Court and cannot be terminated, because, in legal opinion, this would mean even more problems. Dr Dolenc made clear his commitment and willingness to make Banka Slovenije transparent, that it was absolutely no problem for the Court of Auditors to examine the usefulness of doing business again, but stressed what was important for every high state official, especially that it was always necessary to take into account the legal basis and legal criteria that were also accepted for all these matters. So let me just get this further explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac, for your further explanation. With this, honourable Members and Members, we conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the proposal for the appointment of a Governor – a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 37(5) of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the appointment of the Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 92(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Mr Franz Breznik, Mrs Andreja Zabret, Mrs Janja Slug and Mr Blaž Pavlin. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal from the Commission? Thank you. If not, respectable and respected, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 63 votes against one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members of the Parliament as soon as each Member reaches the Chair's table and declares his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word “for” or the word “against”. In accordance with Article 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with Article 37(5) of the Banka Slovenije Act, the proposed candidate for Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, will be appointed if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 16. 10 and it'll take up to 16.25 hours. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. With this, honourable Members and Members, I interrupt this item on the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 4:40 p.m. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 16.04 and resumed at 16.39.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The hour is 16.40 and we continue with the adjourned meeting of the Assembly and the treatment of the interrupted 1st item, this is the proposal for the appointment of the Governor – a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I will now read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of Dr Primož Dolenc as Governor or member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia: The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 9 October 2018. 72 ballots were distributed, 72 votes were delivered, 3 votes were invalid and 69 votes were valid. 30 Members and Members voted against. 39 Members and Members voted against. Thus, Dr Primož Dolenc's candidate did not receive the majority of the votes of all Members, so he is not appointed Governor or a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Since the proposed candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, I will immediately inform the President of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 37(6) of the Bank of Slovenia Act. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to a judicial function in the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Trbovje. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Dr Saš Kmet and Mr Blaž Gune as a judge in the courts of the District Judges at the District Court in Trbovje. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Špeli Jakopic on behalf of the Council of Justice. Mrs. Špela Jakopic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u31	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The reasons for the invitation to tender for two free judicial posts in the District Court in Trbovje are the average of criminal and criminal cases in this court and in human resources weaknesses. In 2018, the judge retired, two judges working part-time. It would not be feasible to redistribute the files or judges in this court, in order to ensure the administration of matters which is increasing in all the district courts of the Ljubljana District and to ensure that judges are specialised. Twenty-one candidates applied for the invitation, two candidates withdrew. The selection procedure was carried out in three stages with the gradual elimination of candidates. The Court first examined the fulfilment of the formal conditions, then carried out a second stage evaluation of the eligibility of candidates on the basis of the tender documentation, taking into account, in particular, the working experience of the legal examination, the average evaluation of the college study, the average evaluation achieved at the legal examination, and the final opinion of the President of the District Court in Ljubljana. In accordance with these criteria, the Court of Justice, in the third stage, invited nine candidates who favourably withdrew from others on the basis of the qualified qualifications or the opinion of the President, on the basis of the entire documentation and interviews conducted, assessed that they were the most suitable candidates for two free district court seats at the District Court in Trbovje Dr. Saš Kmet and Blaž Gun. The candidate, Dr. Sasha Kmet, was born in 1982. He graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana in 2006 with an average rating of 8.9. The business trip started in the academic field. He was employed as a young researcher at the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, where he performed research and teaching work. In June 2011, he became a doctor of science. Following his legal examination, which he carried out in 2013 with an average evaluation of 8.4, he became a lawyer. Since 2014 he has worked as a professional associate in the court, first at the District Court in Ljubljana, then at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana in the criminal field. In its final opinion, the President of the District Court in Ljubljana assessed that Dr. Saš Kmet met the criteria for the City of Ljubljana above average, and supported his candidacy as a matter of priority. The candidate Blaž Guna was born in 1978 and graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana in 2003 with an average rating of 8. In 2006, he passed his legal exam with an average score of 8.1. The entire career is linked to the lawyer's work, first as a lawyer, then a lawyer's candidate. Since 2009, he has been a single lawyer and deals in particular with criminal and economic law. He was also ranked by the President of the District Court in Ljubljana as one of the most suitable candidates for the seat of the Court of Justice, and he also favoured his candidacy. The two candidates also successfully presented themselves in interviews at the Court of Justice and are therefore invited by the Council of Justice to elect the National Assembly for the judicial function of the two District Judges in the District Court in Trbovje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Jakopic, for your explanation. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a mother's work, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision which elects Dr Saš Kmet to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Trbovje. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 8. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are also moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which Mr Blaž Guna is elected to the judge's seat at the District Court in Trbovje. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to a judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Lithuania. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mr Blaž Godc as Judge of the District Court in Lithuania. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Špeli Jakopic on behalf of the Council of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. In recent years, the District Court in Lithuania has recorded significant human resources weaknesses in the area of judicial posts. After the judicial service ceased one of the three judges in this court in 2015, the judicial function was performed by only two judges, both in civil law. The court’s criminal cases were resolved by redistributing the cases to the District Court in Trbovje. In 2018, the judicial function ceased to be that of another judge and a new court seat had to be declared in order to ensure that the trial was delivered within a reasonable period of time. Eighteen candidates applied for the invitation, two candidates withdrew. As in the previous exposed procedure, the selection procedure was also carried out in this case in three stages with the gradual elimination of candidates. First, the Council of Justice examined the fulfilment of the formal conditions. They were met by all the candidates. He then carried out a second stage assessment of the eligibility of candidates, taking into account, in particular, the work experience of the state legal examination, the average evaluation of the college study, the average evaluation achieved at the legal examination, and the final opinion of the President of the District Court in Ljubljana. Subject to these criteria, the Court of Justice, in the third stage, invited six candidates who had withdrawn positively from the remaining candidates for the interview. Then, on the basis of all the documentation and interviews, he assessed that Blaž Godec was the most suitable candidate. Blaž Godec was born in 1982. He graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor in 2006. The legal examination was carried out in 2011. He has completed more than 10 years of work experience, of which 7 years after his legal examination. During his studies at the Faculty of Law in Maribor he achieved an average rating of 8 and an average rating of 8.1 at the legal exam. He started his career in the public sector in the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, then continued his career in law; first as a lawyer, he has been a lawyer since 2013. It operates in the civil, criminal, labour and economic fields. In his reasoned opinion, the President of the District Court of Ljubljana highlighted his diverse work experience, the positive opinions of the judges on the work of the candidate in the court during the traineeship, and the positive opinion of the lawyer in which the candidate conducted the internship and the candidacy. A great deal of breadth and in-depth expertise, rich work experience, communication skills and critical and analytical thinking have also been shown by the candidate during an interview in the Council of Justice. The full assessment of the expertise, experience and ability of the Court of Justice has therefore led to the conclusion that Blaž Godec is the most suitable candidate for the seat of the Court of Justice; therefore, he proposes to the State Assembly to elect him to serve as a judge in the District Court in Lithuania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Jakopic. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which also reported in writing to the assembly this time. I find that those who have been reported for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which Mr Blaž Godec is elected as a judge of the District Court in Lithuania. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Respected and respected, we are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ptuj. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to elect Mrs Patricia Verbajs for judicial office at the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. For a further explanation, for the last time today, I give the floor to Mrs Špeli Jakopic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. In 2017, in the District Court of Ptuj there was the appointment of one district judge to the District Court, one judge retired this year and one judge was assigned to the District Court of Ptuj. The Court did not carry out the replacement employment after the judge’s retirement, but replaced him with a higher judicial associate. In view of the actual reduction in the number of judges by three, it was therefore necessary to fill one court seat for the purpose of handling the cases. 28 candidates applied for the tender and, as in the previous two cases, the selection process was also conducted in three stages with the gradual elimination of candidates. First, by testing compliance with the formal conditions met by all candidates, a second stage assessment of the suitability, suitability of the candidates was carried out. In this assessment, the Council of Justice took into account, in particular, the working experience of the legal examination, the average evaluation of the college study, the average evaluation achieved at the legal examination, and the final opinion of the President of the District Court in Ptuj. Subject to these criteria, the Court of Justice, in the third stage, invited seven candidates who had withdrawn positively from the remaining candidates to be interviewed. On the basis of the documentation and the interviews held, he then assessed that Patricia Verbajs was the most suitable candidate. Candidate Patricia Verbajs was born in 1980 and graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor in 2004 with an average rating of 8.14. The legal examination was carried out in 2008 with an average score of 9.17. Since 2009, the candidate has been working as an expert at the District Court in Ptuj, in various legal areas, in particular in the justice and economic department. She is also the head of the expert staff of this court and is also active as Head of the Alternative Dispute Resolution Service, which covers the mediation procedures of the entire avian judicial district. In its opinion, the Head of the Justice and Economics Department of the District Court of Ptuj pointed out that the candidate is highly qualified, fully independent at work and has very good working skills. In its final opinion, the President of the District Court of Ptuj also estimated that the candidate met all the conditions for the District Court and therefore assessed her among all candidates as the most appropriate place for the District Court. On average, the candidate also had a successful conversation with the members of the Council of Justice. At the time of her personal presentation and the answers to the questions of the members of the Council of Justice, it confirmed that she had extensive and in-depth expertise and very good analytical and logical thinking, and the Council of Justice therefore invited her to the State Assembly to elect a judicial office for the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-09-SDZ8-Izredna-10.ana.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Jakopic. The proposal also addressed the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision, by which Mrs Patricia Verbajs is elected to the judge's seat at the District Court in Ptuj. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. With this, honourable Members, I conclude this agenda item and the 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice day!
