ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Ferenc Horváth, Jan Mahnic, Tomaž Lisec from 2 p.m. to 1 p.m., Sam Bevk until 1 p.m., Jelka Godec, Luka Mesec until 1 p.m., Miha Kordiš until 1 p.m., Primož Siter until 1 p.m., Dr. Franz Runczek, Natasha Sukich, Iva Dimic, mag. Matthew Tonin from 16:00 on, Jernej Vrtovec from 18:00 on and Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. All in attendance have a nice round of greetings again! Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 21 November 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. Therefore, I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the liability of the Cerar Peace Government as a SD and Desus political party for the damage to the Slovenian taxpayer due to late December 2016 to November 2018 in the sale of majority interest in NLB, D.D. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 36 Members and Members with the first-signed winner, Jelinčič Trimeniti. With regard to this proposal, the group of 28 Members and Members, with the first-signed Victory of Jelinčič Trimeniti, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Victory Jelinčič Trimenite.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u2	Nice hello to you all! Tonight, Miklavž will wear a parking lot, or one cane, one of the gifts. But in Slovenia we will not get gifts, we will only get a stick. The baton is because our political structure destroyed the Ljubljana Bank in the previous term and made two terrible moves. The first is, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, that we started selling and selling our bank. We sold it just like that. The Germans have a state bank, Deutsche Bank is a German bank, and they don't think of selling it. We went because of the promise made by Mrs Bratušek, I don't know who, I don't know where, we don't know at what opportunity, and I don't know what price, we decided we'd have to sell it all together. And we started to think we were gonna sell. The case began in December 2016 when it was supposed to be sold and is being dragged to date or dragged. That's the first horrible thing I'd say is that this is what happened. The other is that we sold it at a price. The fact is, we could get a lot more. It is true, however, that in the negotiations we should have appropriate experts who know something and understand what they know about banking and sales, as well as the end of purchases. The way things were arranged, it was somehow hidden behind some curtains, only some of them knew, and some of them, I'm afraid they either caved in to some promises or they were already fulfilled in advance. Now we're going to get or sell this bank for a billion dollars. The value of this bank, if we look through the eyes of the one who can best manage everything together, is between €7 billion and €10 billion. Who will put this in our pocket, and who will benefit from making such a wonderful profit to the buyer? Probably some of them already. After all, it is necessary to know that the bank has now brought more than 200 million money into the state budget and about 2 billion and half of the money that we had to throw into this hole all of us who are in Slovenia, perhaps some of us, because they have already made sure that we do not have to give it, this would be paid in ten years. In ten years! What else are we gonna lose? We will also lose all branches of the New Ljubljana Bank in the Balkans. These branches are very important. If a bank has branches in the Balkans, good governance can serve well. It is true, however, that there was no good governance in Slovenia. The bank had thefts, thefts, corruption, money laundering and everything. Everything you can find in the worst textbooks of any foreign society, because in Slovenia there is no corruption, no bribery, no fraud. After all — has anyone gone to sit down for this? None of those gentlemen and ladies who have destroyed hundreds of millions have stolen and taken them anywhere, none of them are responsible for anything. With us, tens of millions of high debts are easily written off, of course, if the surname is real. Otherwise, if someone fails to pay hundreds of euros, they will also rob his house because his last name is not correct. This is our country. That's the kind of country we didn't want. We didn't want it. At least not me. Maybe some of you, maybe some of you in here. But it's only those who are at the trough who can say that it's nice to have a country like this. We don't like it, and we don't want it, and I hope that one day this thing will be fixed. I would also like to ask Mrs Bratusek here who she promised to sell the bank to. I don't know. Nobody knew. The National Assembly did not discuss this; we were put before the fact. And Brussels, as we can see, dictates everything again. He'll dictate the price, too. But if we look at the price of the shares sold, and we see that the price of shares is already higher today, some are already making good profits. And who makes good profits? To a large extent, Croats, including Croatian pension funds, and some strangers, of whom no one knows where they come from and who they are, but probably also some Slovenian yoke of gentlemen, who draw money from oasis and with that money buys what is ours and will be theirs again, just as it was now theirs. So they could also lend those credits to some people in a pretty way. Of course, they didn't have to repay those loans. In short, thieving all over the line. I wonder who's gonna get something in their pocket. I'm sure as always the truth will come on the day, so will that. I also want to know who's already got something in their pocket, and that's gonna come up with a plan. That's what we're gonna find out. After all, the new owner or owner or group of owners will have to put some documents on the table. Not because they don't give us anything, and they don't give us anything to investigative commissions, because it looks like the National Assembly for some institutes that should be under the National Assembly is an overriding matter and we want to act in the way of a socialist assembly, as we once had, where the delegates would just say: yes. They said what the boss said and voted the same. It is also true that experts leading SDH are not experts. This is, as they used to say, from the hills below some people are recruited, but they are suitable because they listen to those in the rear. That's why we're so screwed up. And who was the one who led this cohort? Mr Miro Cerar, who sits on the Foreign Minister's chair today and the years in the Vatican, where not even the Pope accepts him, but is accepted by the lower officials, and, as we see in the newspapers, they're looking at the hour already, come on, you've talked a lot, but now get out of here. Such people lead the country to us, and such people have brought this country to where we are today. And these people sell us banks, and these people sell us everything we have. Just as the bank of Maribor was sold and foreigners found that the purchase was paid in a little over a year. And that's how it's gonna happen at the Ljubljana Bank. On the other hand, we allow the Ljubljana Bank to close its branches in Slovenia because of what citizens care. The citizens of this government are also the last wheel on the wagon, not the last wheel, but the spare wheel on the wagon. These are terrible things. I think it's high time the debate opens. While this debate will not go any further, the Committee on Finance decided by vote that this should not be discussed more broadly and that it would not be necessary to investigate the pigs that were behind. How typical of our country!? And to this day, none of those who have done pigs sit down, but – they sit, but probably somewhere under a palm tree, drink rum with cocoa and watch the sea, and some beautiful women walk by. That's it. But, of course, some have already lost a lot of cars, yachts, I don't know what. Surely, however, a citizen cannot afford it, those who have taken money from him who have stolen money from him and who will never return it to him again.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In order to further explain the proposal, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Anžet Logar. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u4	NLB is sold, NLB is mostly not Slovenian anymore, and newspapers are still coming out, the Internet is still working, life is running smoothly, which is amazing, given what we have heard several times in this country, not least in this House. After the entire process of selling state property, and above all NLB, one would think that a global flood would occur after the sale of NLB in Slovenia. He didn't. No protests, no riots, no anti-collective steps. Understandably, the sale took place under the left, far left government. Imagine a reaction in case Janez Janša comes under the government. We'd have Paris here today. And the NLB would have been sold at an appropriate price, not below the price. In the last 25 years, taxpayers have been squandering 4 billion euros into the bank. We sold it for 600 million euros. Who's to blame? We threw a billion and a half into this bank five years ago. We sold it for two and a half times less than we gave it only for the recovery of bad investments in this bank. To illustrate with an example from everyday life that will make taxpayers more comprehensible. Imagine you have a car that crashed his engine. You take him to the service, it costs you a thousand 500 euros, and then you sell him for 600 euros in a few months. Which one of you would do that? I don't think anyone does. Who did this with a hundred thousand times that amount? Who? Miro Cerar, Karl Erjavec and Dejan Židan. Twice. For the first time in 2015, when you adopted an investment management strategy here in the National Assembly and provided for dispersed ownership. We have already pointed out this by simply quoting the words of Mr Mark Pogačnik when he presented himself with the adoption of this strategy, which was the basis for the sale of NLB. He said, quote: “The biggest disappointment in the document itself is certainly a dispersed property. After the dispersed ownership, the government of Mir Cerar and the SD and Desus coalition proved that we want to have power and influence in companies, and last but not least, the dispersed ownership also means significantly smaller purchases for the Slovenian state budget." We warned you, but you didn't listen. Because you wanted dispersed ownership in the NLB in any way, the price we recovered for NLB was 25% lower. In order to be able to manage the bank later, Cerar, Erjavec and Židan reduced you by 250 million euros or 125 euros per individual. Since these three did not sell the same banks in the first attempt, when the prices of banks on the market were 20% higher than at the time of sale, you lost an additional 20%. So from the title of these two political decisions, Cerar, Erjavec and Židan took about EUR 400 million or EUR 200 on each of us. Did they answer? One is the Foreign Minister, one is the Defence Minister, both are the State Department, and the third is the President of the House of Democracy. Dear taxpayers and taxpayers, will you allow yourself from year to year, from suit to suit — well, since the same suit is always the same — unpunished with a shovel throws state money into the fire? We believe that this meeting should not be done, so we have also proposed that the competent authorities in this case should investigate the political and compensation responsibility of the three that allowed NLB to sell to foreign owners for a substantial underpriced price.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. On 26 November 2018, the proposal for a recommendation was considered by the Committee on Finance as the parent body. As the Committee did not adopt the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the proposal for a recommendation at the working body meeting had been considered. I give my word to the President, Mr. Robert Pollnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its fourth urgent meeting on 26 November this year, the Finance Committee considered the proposal for a recommendation on the liability of the Government of Mir Cerar as a SDH assembly composed of SMC, SD and Desus parties for damage caused to Slovenian taxpayers by delays in the sale of the majority share in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. In the National Assembly, this recommendation was sent to the Committee by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Vegetation of Jelinčič. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Services on 23 November 2018 as input for the meeting. In the course of the course of business, amendments to the draft recommendations were tabled by the SDS, NSI and SNS and the amendments of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Law and Administration and the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding participated in the meeting of the Committee. The representative of the applicant did not provide an introductory supplementary explanation to the proposal for a recommendation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the responsibility of the Government is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the form of non-trust, confidentiality or interpretation. This makes it possible to exercise only the responsibility of the current government, but not of the past governments. She also stressed that the addressees of the proposal were not competent to carry out those tasks. The representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that the Government had not formally adopted an opinion on the proposal for a recommendation under consideration. It presented in detail the history of the sale of capital investment in NLB, in particular the decision of the Government which, as the SDH Assembly on 8 June 2017, adopted a decision terminating the NLB sales procedure. As a reason for such a decision, the Government then cited certain risks, particularly the issue of transferred foreign exchange deposits by Croatian savers. He further described the conditions in capital markets at the time of the decision of the former Government and explained that it had been decided on the basis of the circumstances and circumstances of the time. Thus, according to him, it is not possible to determine what price would have been achieved in the previous sales procedure. For this reason, the comparison with the price achieved at the time of the current sale is not appropriate. The President of the SDH Administration stated that the method of selling the shares of the Republic of Slovenia in NLB, d.d., was enshrined in the Decree on the State Capital Investment Management Strategy adopted by the National Assembly. The SDH has accordingly led the process and has successfully completed it. It stressed that the assessments should take into account market developments and the payment of dividends received by the Republic of Slovenia. In an extensive debate, the members and members of the Committee asked a number of questions, in particular, about the sales made of the State's capital investment in NLB. Most of the debate focused on the responsibility of the former government to suspend the sale process. A key element of the Committee's discussion was the sales price or, in particular, the relationship between the price achieved at the time of the sale of the share and the potential selling price that could be achieved by sale in 2017, with a comparative aspect of the prices achieved at the time of the sale of comparable banks during that period. The representative of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Administration and the SDH Supervisory Board provided additional explanations and answers to the questions raised in the debate. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SNS groups and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. He then voted on the proposal for a recommendation in accordance with Articles 126 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and did not adopt it. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 9 December 2018, as President of the Committee on Finance, I concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation on the home labour body had been completed. Following the vote on the amendments and the proposal for a recommendation, the Committee adopted the following decision: The Finance Committee expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to forward to it by 4 December 2018 the SDH document addressed to the Ministry of Finance, in which SDH is expected to submit an opinion that the State Investment Management Strategy is incomplete and should be amended. The decision was implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are moving on to the government's opening argument. I give the floor to Mr Method Dragonja, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to explain that the process of selling capital investment in Nova Ljubljanska Banka has been conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act. On behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, this process was led by the Slovenian State Holding. The State Capital Investment Management Strategy, which was approved in the National Assembly, provides that, in the case of NLB, where the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself to a reduction of capital investment to 25 % plus one share up to 31. 12. 2017, SDH shall prepare, in cooperation with NLB, a programme for the classification of bank shares on the international market under the first public supply programme. This was the framework in which the former and current government acted and under which the led procedures were linked to the management of the capital investment and to the placement of shares on the stock exchange. Sales commitments were set out in the process of granting State aid by the European Commission. It was necessary to ensure that State aid was compatible with the State aid rules relating to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The original sales undertaking provided that the Republic of Slovenia must sell its share by the end of 2017 up to 25 plus one share. According to this undertaking, the Slovenian State Holding Company, which is empowered by law to lead the procedure, has already started carrying out activities in early 2016 to assess the market situation. He appointed financial advisers in spring 2017 and proposed, on the proposal of these advisers, that the sales process instead of the initial one phase be carried out in two phases. The total equity share that would have to be sold by the end of 2017 following that commitment would have been markedly high and above the average in terms of the standards applicable to the Central and Eastern Europe area. The average value of transactions in such equity market holdings reached between EUR 350 and EUR 380 million in 2014, corresponding to 28 % of ownership of NLB. The possible sale of the total available share would thus constitute the largest transaction that would have taken place in this part of Europe at that time, and this was linked to the risk. Since the then government, on the basis of the recommendations of the financial advisor and SDH, did not want to be exposed to the risk of failure to conduct sales in one step, it was decided at that time that this stock should be placed on the market in two steps, thereby increasing the likelihood of success. Such a decision cannot be considered harmful by the Government, but in those circumstances the Government acted reasonably and in the direction of responsible treatment of the assets of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular with a view to increasing the value of the purchase and also increasing the chances of success of that sales transaction. Before the formal opening of the first NLB public offering, the SDH management had to obtain agreement from the Supervisory Board on the minimum bid price for the stock and the range of the offer price. The SDH Supervisory Board has not given its consent and has also explained this at the meeting of the parent working body, and the SDH administration has, in its previous mandate, proposed that the SDH Assembly adopt a decision agreeing to the minimum bid price for the stock between €55 and €71. In the previous term, the government, as the assembly, rejected the proposed minimum bid price and the range of the offer price for this share, as it considered that the additional risks were related to this level. That's why the government stopped the procedure. As can be seen from the material underlying this decision, the government has taken a decision because it considered that the objective of reimbursement of the tax assets invested in the bank’s recovery should be pursued to the greatest extent possible. The government has thus assessed that the risk of transferred foreign exchange deposits in Croatia is high and that it can affect the price while at the same time endangering the transaction related to the then capital market relationship. The government then acted in a manner that took account of all the factors accompanying the sale, in particular the risk of the unresolved issue of transferred foreign exchange deposits. We believe that it cannot be reasonably expected that in the previous mandate, the Government could foresee what the capital market situation would be more than a year later, taking this into account in its decision. We estimate that the Government acted prudently in the previous term because it wanted to conduct the sales process in accordance with market principles without affecting non-marketable factors to the selling price. Financial markets are unpredictable and market movements and indices cannot be forecasted because of the complexity of financial markets with certainty, which makes it difficult to determine when the most appropriate time to sell is. In addition, it should be noted that the public supply of shares is a process the preparation of which takes longer and therefore the situation in capital markets can change. The first tender method, however, represents a method of sales that is particularly responsive to capital market events. In addition, the assessment of the appropriate current sales from the point of view of the reimbursement of the tax assets invested in the rehabilitation of the New Ljubljana Bank should also be borne in mind that this October the Republic of Slovenia received the total profit paid for 2017 and the retained profits from previous years totalling EUR 270.6 million and EUR 13.5 per share. The margin for the share price was thus established in 2017 by taking into account the higher value of the total capital of the New Ljubljana Bank, the level of the price reached was achieved when the transaction was actually carried out this year and the level achieved should take into account the amount of the retained profits paid. The applicants state that in 2017 a certain margin for the price of the bank's shares could be higher despite the risk posed by the transferred foreign exchange deposits in Croatia, and that further damage to taxpayers could occur due to the taking over of that risk by the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the applicant disregards that several measures have been implemented in the course of last year as a result of this risk to the successful execution of the sales transaction. Proposalers do not state that the Law protecting the value of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the New Ljubljana Bank has provided that the Republic of Slovenia indirectly covers only the financial consequences that will arise from the compulsory recovery of the bank. The new Ljubljanska Bank will use against it adverse judgments, decisions and other decisions of the courts all available remedies before regular courts and legal remedies intended to protect rights where necessary and on the basis of a previously obtained opinion of the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia for succession, as well as legal remedies before international courts or institutions or from an international instance with arbitration or conciliation proceedings. The new Ljubljanska Banka is also committed to carrying out appropriate asset management measures in order to prevent or limit the possibility of forcible recovery to a minimum and to take account of Slovenian interests in the management. In conclusion, let me stress that all the necessary decisions of the Government in the previous mandate, in relation to the New Ljubljana Bank, as well as those governments, have been adopted in accordance with the basic guidelines for the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. Firstly, the State budget will be reimbursed as much as possible to the extent that the taxpayers have invested in the New Ljubljana Bank at the time of its recapitalisation. Secondly, to maintain the country's significant influence on the management of the New Ljubljana Bank, which is realized through the implementation of the method of sale of ownership shares in the bank. 25 % plus 1 vote in this bank is maintained and a limited impact on the management of this bank is allowed. Thirdly, this method of sale preserved the role of the New Ljubljana Bank as a regionally important banking institution while ensuring that all the most important business functions related to the performance of this banking group remain in Slovenia. In view of all of the above, we consider that there is no argument that the Republic of Slovenia has suffered material injury due to a lower purchase than would have been achieved if NLB were sold by the first deadline, that is until the end of 2017. It is not certain what price could be achieved in last year's sales window and therefore the comparison of possible sales opportunities last year and this year's implementation are not justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. The first is Mr Robert Polnar, Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Robbers are counting on our political blindness and rely on general ignorance. The fundamental essence of the motioners' call for today's meeting of the National Assembly is the assumption of knowledge unknown in economic relations. It is based on a general disregard for the fact that it is impossible to predict the future economic situation in the economy. In the economic and not least, especially in the financial world, the assumption of the unknown and what cannot be known is highly valued and often well-rewarded profession. This leads to an estimated assessment of both general economic expectations and individual participants and affected companies. Men and women who are involved believe in this and others believe that they know the unknown. This knowledge is supposed to be generated by research. What is prophesied is exactly what others want to hear and on the basis of the prophetic creation, to make profit or at least some reparation. Hope and needs cloud reality. In this way they celebrate and even welcome a major error in the financial markets. Employees or self-employed people who talk about future financial developments in activities or in companies that offer unpredictable but visible impact on the larger economy do not know, and what is essential, they also do not know that they do not know. The forecasts of economic or financial advisers on the economic future of corporations, recession, planned recovery or continuation of the economic situation are understood as reflecting economic and financial performance and it is not easy to deny experts' assumptions. The depth of perception is confirmed by past random successes and a satisfactory display of equation and confidence diagrams. That's how fraud comes about. However, some adjustments are expected as always. Financial advice, albeit worthless, may be paid financially for some time, but it is always followed by a face - to - face with the truth. In recent years in Slovenia this has been a general experience. The main topic of our debate today is the impact on the sale of the majority stake of the New Ljubljana Bank. In fact, the real topic should be a sufficient reason, its effect and the reasons why it had to be sold. This sufficient reason, however, is that all the recapitalisations that the State had to make in order to compensate for the damage caused by the bankrupt bank management. In doing so, it should also be pointed out that Slovenia, with unconditional categorisation and fanatical adaptation to the European Union, has continued to abandon its negotiating adjutants and, on the other hand, has left a vast space for various forms of blackmail. The main theme should therefore be the economic role of the large bank and thus its management. While management in large modern corporations and banks has assumed an essential and dominant role, the role of shareholders has become more ritualized, in some ways set by the calendar, on the day of the regular annual meeting of shareholders. It was recently celebrated in our home, with a smaller measure of surprise and shock, a management desire for strength and self-sufficiency. We could not even avoid mentioning the sly opportunities for enrichment attributed to managers of modern banks and businesses in a world that approves self-reliance as a fundamental reward for economic merit. In all cases, the situation was the same as the result. Management had complete control, ownership was irrelevant, and some or most of them were extremely flexible. The Business Performance Awards increased the welfare of participants and covered up real benefits. At the very least, corrupt accounting has contributed to harmful and even criminal activities. It enabled the cover for unfair acts that spread to the open theft. However, there is no alternative to effective control. The knowledge and behaviour of managers can also be improved through careful planning of the entirely realistic possibility of an unpopular prison sentence. Another generalised manifestation of fraud should be mentioned here. He shows up when less successful speculation faces reality. The reasons for the poorer economic picture of the bank are thus fulfilled. They're always the same. These are impersonal market forces, lack of control or simple places. The universal solution is a significant fall in business and forgiveness of those who are least responsible. The larger the number of so fired, the better the financial perspective. They don't throw anyone responsible on the road, they don't fire. Instead, they receive monetary allowances for education and career development. Let the public know in this way that there is a painful solution for those who are least responsible for the poor and are considered good workers. The reductions were highly praised as a wise and effective response to the recession and were adopted both in public and among the students, how good it is that this simple and painless measure is independent of policy and in the hands of responsible and respected experts. Ladies and gentlemen, the rehabilitation of banks, especially the New Ljubljana Bank, has shown the most drastic existence of a parallel economic system, a parallel administration. A billion is a number that's not human, unless it's a billionaire. Well, billionaires aren't exactly human. It's my honor to exclude it. In the life of an ordinary person — except in the days of apocalyptic inflation — a billion is the number that is incompatible with money. Therefore, it is not easy for an ordinary person, often called a small person, to combine a currency with a ten - month or even more in consciousness. One of these numbers is, for example, 2,000 320 million. When it denotes the amount of money that is not in the accounts, it should be there, as in today's case, the number is as two billion three hundred twenty million euros. With this amount, the State had to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank, that it remained as an economic operator and that it could continue its business. When we hear or when we read EUR 2.3 billion, it sounds abstract and innumerable, like the stars in the sky or the grains of sand in the sea. Therefore, this number must be compared to some other, as well as high and important values. For example, in the budget of the State for 2019, this is the sum of the expenditure of the two ministries, the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities and the Ministry of Infrastructure. So the social and infrastructure of the Slovenian Republic is in one year. Or if we put things a little differently, it's the 8-year budget of the Ljubljana Municipality. It is therefore money with which the Slovenian capital can function for eight years. All together, it is just another confirmation of that old saying, which we will paraphrase under Slovenian circumstances: If you owe the country 2 000 300 euros, then the state owns you and your property. Without question, she'll put your assets on the drum to pay off her debt. But if you owe the country 2.3 billion euros, then you are the owner of the state. And now we can all wait together and see how much remains of the State through the New Ljubljana Bank, which has left all this debt generously to us. Welcome to the world of big numbers, big business and big robbery. Finally, can the National Assembly become a liquidator of such pathological socioeconomic phenomena or remain their recorder, interpreter and purifier? We cannot and must not miss the important work done by the commission of inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the identification of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone, in particular in the light of demystifications. Her documents, especially the records of the hearings of bank managers, clearly testify to the incompetence, selfishness and thieving corruption of the work of the Slovenian imaginary business elite. It has a decisive role to play in this regard and will have the repressive apparatus of the Slovenian State in the function of processing and sanctioning those responsible. We will see how this part of our sickly, overly patient country will react. This is about whether Slovenia will ever feel safe and carefree in the future, where such kind of bandits will no longer feel safe and carefree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u12	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests! What I have previously heard from Mr Method Draganje, I understand that some advocacy is the previous and present government. The NLB was 18 years old. 12. In 2013 it received measures to ensure long-term capital adequacy and on this basis it became 100% owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia is committed to reducing capital investment by 25% plus one share by 31. 12. 2017. The month May 2017 SDH shall start the sales procedures of the NLB. The range of the price offered for NLB was between EUR 55 and 71 at the time, with applicants taking the risk of liability for actions related to the transfer of foreign exchange deposits. For the purpose of stopping the sale of NLB, the Government shall state the adverse market conditions and risks due to the problem of transferred foreign exchange deposits. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 5. In order to monitor public finances, the Commission took note of information on NLB’s sales flow and estimated that there was a high risk that NLB’s purchase would be too low. It was pointed out that NLB would not be able to obtain a private strategic owner. If the case were mentioned in the case of the Austrian bank BAWAG, investors paid 1.43 times its book value if NLB were sold for 1.4 times its book value, the price would be EUR 105. At the end of 2017, the European Banking Stock Movement Index was around €190 and today it was around €140. The outgoing government adopted the Act to protect the value of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in Novi Ljubljanski banka d.d., which was adopted in the National Assembly, which provided for the return of financial value from the NLB Succession Fund in case of forced enforcement of the assets of the NLB in Croatia. In the event that the property in the succession would not be sufficient, the State would increase the dedicated assets of the successor fund from the state budget. The SDH carried out the NLB share sale process because the price was between EUR 51.5 and EUR 66, which meant that the range was much lower than that of May 2017, when the range was between EUR 55 and EUR 71. There are two problems here. 9. 11. In 2018, the country sold 59.1% of shares at a price of EUR 51.5 per share. Another problem, investors did not calculate or assume the risk of liability arising from actions related to the issue of deposits transferred. The loss of over €460 million is estimated from these two problems. The biggest problem is that the sales price from 2017 was higher than the price at which we sold it in 2018. Even more important is the problem, dear colleagues, especially those from the government, that all citizens have been rehabilitated on several occasions by the NLB. Now you've sold it at a price. It's really sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u14	Your Honor, the President of the National Assembly, thank you for your word! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar, Ministry of Finance, Dr. Marble and the current finance minister, and coalition parties, parties of the modern centre, Social Democrats and Desus, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, bear the highest responsibility for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. The key question that we have asked ourselves in the Slovenian Democratic Party is why the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank has so delayed. The fact is that the European Commission decided that Nova Ljubljanska Banka must be sold in 2013. This decision was signed by the government of Alenka Bratušek. The fact is that the government of Mira Cerar and the parties of the then coalition, the modern centre parties, the Social Democrats and Desus knew what was ahead of them from the day of the performance – the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that Nova Ljubljanska Banka sold at the worst possible time. When selling the New Ljubljana Bank, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there was also an inadequate way of selling. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the price of the share could increase significantly if the Nova Ljubljanska Bank were sold in full, that is to say, a 100 % share. The government of Mira Cerar has decided to sell 75% of the Nova Ljubljanska banka minus one share. The Government of Mir Cerar has adopted an additional restriction on the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, namely that none of the buyers who will buy shares of the New Ljubljana Bank can have a higher share than the State has. This has all gone through the fact that the price of the shares of Nova Ljubljanska banka has been declining, including the way in which they were sold, whether IPO or not, we estimate in the Slovenian Democratic Party that no. The dispersed ownership certainly means a lower price per share and, on the other hand, enables the Government to continue to govern the government's state assets in the bank itself, which according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's assessment was somehow the goal. Both the Government and the Ministry of Finance have made an excuse for why such a way of selling has always translated into a state-owned property management strategy, but it must be said that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have always warned that the state-owned property management strategy is not appropriate and is poorly written. The fact is, however, that the State Property Management Strategy was adopted in 2015, which means about two years after it was known that the Nova Ljubljanska Bank had to be sold. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Government of Mira Cerar has consciously decided to sell such a sale and consciously decided that the price of the share would be lower than the state could have received if the bank was sold in full. Finally, it has to be said that in the period since 2013 when the decision on the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank was taken, until the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank to the President of the Government, to the Ministry of Finance and, last but not least, to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, more than 20 oral and written questions have been raised and the answer has certainly been answered by or the President of the Government or the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is under control and the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is not in a hurry. In charge of the sale of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, the Slovenian State Holding Company was a property manager. It must be said, however, that since the European Commission's decision to sell the New Ljubljana Bank to sell, three heads of administration have been replaced in the Slovenian State Holding. The management of the Slovenian State Holding since the start of the sale procedures of the New Ljubljana Bank has never been complete. It wasn't a perfect administration, it wasn't a perfect supervisory board. Moreover, the Court appointed a member of the Board and members of the Supervisory Board on the basis of a judicial decision. And this certainly speaks of the state of emergency at the time of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank in the Slovenian State Holding. Finally, at the time of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, the company itself, management or management was not perfect. Let's just remember the embarrassment, the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. Last but not least, at least informally as we could read from the media, the consultant at the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, who would have been selected at the Slovenian State Holding, Deutsche Bank, did not want to start selling the New Ljubljana Bank until Nova Ljubljanska banka had full leadership. Here we have come to the conclusion that the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is the responsibility of the government of Mir Cerar and the coalition of parties of the Modern Centre, Social Democrats and Desus. Why? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the 100 % owner of both the Slovenian State Holding and the Nova Ljubljanska Banka and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia performed as the Assembly of both the Slovenian State Holding and the Nova Ljubljanska Bank at the time of sale. It should also be pointed out that, in view of the delay in the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, the Bank had to take a number of compensatory measures during this interim period and the New Ljubljana Bank had a number of operating restrictions. Let me list just a few: New Ljubljana Bank was unable to close several businesses due to the delay in sales or the failure to sell the bank within the time frame set; Nova Ljubljanska Banka was unable to carry out acquisitions or expansion at that time; Nova Ljubljanska Banka had to deliberately reduce the balance sheet amount; Nova Ljubljanska Banka had to withdraw from the lease and factoring activities, all at the time of the merger, when all of these activities brought huge profits. Another indication is that the time component in the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank was important. The Government of Mir Cerar as the Assembly of both the Slovenian State Holding and the New Ljubljana Bank bear a hundred percent responsibility. Regrettably, even the current coalition, the current MPs and MPs led by Lista Marjan Šarc have not accepted the recommendation proposed by the proposer to take account of the responsibility for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank and thus the potential damage to taxpayers or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that Nova Ljubljanska Banka is a school case of poor governance of state property. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the sale of Nova Ljubljanska Banka is a school case of how state property is not sold. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that if the Government of Mir Cerar, the Social Democrats Coalition, Desus and the Modern Centre Party had a different approach to selling the New Ljubljana Bank in order to decide on a different way of selling the New Ljubljana Bank, the purchase at the end of the sale would be significantly greater. We are convinced that if all of these arguments or all of the things we have just said in the Slovenian Democratic Party were taken into account, the price of the shares for the New Ljubljana Bank would be significantly higher. This would also increase the purchase price for the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Igor Peček, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Sarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u16	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! The debate on whether to sell the New Ljubljana Bank or not has been shared by the Slovenian public for almost a decade. On the one hand, there were advocates that the bank should remain in Slovenian ownership as a system bank and, on the other hand, those who saw a black hole in the bank that had disappeared into hundreds of millions would sell the bank immediately and fully. The first fears were that sales would lose sovereignty, that the bank would encourage the most vulnerable segments of the economy in times of crisis, and that in the last crisis, if we are completely honest, somehow not. If the policy, years ago, when adopting the State Property Management Strategy Decision, was looking for a way to satisfy both camps, then, with the solution that a little over a quarter of the bank would remain state-owned, it is likely to have chosen the most optimal solution. The decision to fulfil the sales undertaking in two phases cannot in any way be considered harmful by the then government. In those circumstances, we believe that the government has acted reasonably and in a responsible manner towards the aim of increasing the purchase price, as well as with a view to increasing the chances of success of the sales process itself. I don't think it's necessary to chronologically repeat how commitments were given and unfulfilled or fulfilled. The fact is that the former government, like the SDH Assembly in June 2017, adopted a decision to put an end to the sale process with regard to the New Ljubljana Bank. The main reason for stopping the procedure was the fear that, due to the transfer of foreign exchange deposits of Croatian savers, the sales price of the stock would be too low. Without any guarantee, investors would clearly request an additional discount at the offered share price. It would also be possible to show interest even too low and not even sell a 50 % share. Without the central coverage of the shares, it is not possible to sell at the desired price. This summer, we covered this risk by adopting the Law on the Protection of the Value of the Capital Investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the New Ljubljana Bank. In the calculation of the potential damage identified by the applicant, it is necessary to take as positive the fact that the Republic of Slovenia from Nova Ljubljanska Bank received the total balance sheet profit paid this year for 2017 and the retained profit from previous years totalling EUR 270.6 million or 13.5 euros per share, which is also due to the above-mentioned law. So we could also talk about the value of EUR 65. We would like to stress that the government can only be politically responsible for its work as a college body, but not legally. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, political responsibility against the government can be exercised either in the form of non-trust, confidentiality or interpolation. This makes it possible to exercise only the political responsibility of the current government, but not of the past governments, as has already been said today. It was also clearly stated in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Your Honor! We can always argue how much someone thinks we could make last year's share, but despite the fact that financial markets are unpredictable and bank indices are very volatile, without this fact we cannot. After all, we can also think of how much less we would have been able to sell next year if we hadn't done it this year, or how much more we would have earned if we had sold NLB 10 years ago. We missed the last one, and the first one's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Matjaž Han, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u18	President, thank you very much. Secretary of State, good afternoon. Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. I have to say, I am interested in listening to my views, and I am interested in listening to some who seem to me as if they are also losing their memory. NLB, sales of NLB, management of NLB has such a long beard that goes beyond this mandate, but goes back a few mandates. Also due to a few mandates back today we have what we have to argue whether the price of sales is too high, too low, too timely, recognized and could still be listed. I must say that I am a little confused with the applicants, because the two applicants have little difference of opinion, but they are signed under the same document. But that's what we're used to. We have before us a debate on a proposal for recommendations that would require the current government to identify the political responsibility of the former government. We would require law enforcement authorities to determine the compensation responsibility of the past government for the things that are taking place within the mandate of the current government. Let me introductoryly explain what the Legal and Legal Service had to say to this proposal, which, when it says in favour of us, we are advocates when it does not apply to us, but we do not agree with the Legislative and Legal Service. But it's part of a political culture. That there is no such thing constitutionally, and that is why we are not facing a vote today, only because of this debate, which is not clear whether it will bring any new fact or new knowledge. But we'll hear a lot of numbers. All these years, I am thinking about SDS, taking on less state ownership, because they believe that the wrong decision of the previous government to achieve a change in sales conditions for the New Ljubljana Bank was lower than last year's sales attempt. They then carry out the damage to our common property and claim responsibility for this damage. This difference, however, includes the inflatable costs and maximum interest on NLB protection in the last year. Then they will make a very convenient leap, for example, to the fact that the previous government has also delayed the sale of the country and has been able to pay a multimillion-dollar accumulated profit of 200 million through a new agreement within the European Commission. If we hadn't done that, that 200 million would have stayed in the bank. And we'd sell a bank like that. That's what we did with the NKBM in the end. They also forget the important fact that, in accordance with the adopted capital investment management strategy, the country will remain the largest co-owner and shareholder of NLB. This is mainly for those who would have a 100 percent bank. It is no wonder, therefore, that at the end of the debate, only a decision has been adopted on the Committee, which we will not vote on today, which requires the Government to inform the National Assembly of the documents in which SDH is to propose adjustments to the State's capital investment strategy. And we also know how this decision was adopted: the opposition plus some Members of these coalitions as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to cut back on the long debate, but I must point out the non-creditability of the applicants on this subject. As has also been pointed out on the Committee, good 10 years ago, the applicants, as great advocates of privatisations, took a step back when the commitment given at the time was to be fulfilled in order to allow the State to allow a private foreign co-owner, that is, the Belgian bank of the NCBs, to increase the necessary share or to buy back the remaining 70 % of the bank. If we did that then, my dears, we probably wouldn't have recapitalised the banks to that extent, but of course we would have recapitalised them if we wanted to protect them, and we would have done so if we sold the bank, protected it, I would have said, in some way, what people are saving in this bank, because the state guarantees it. If the bank goes bankrupt, people don't lose money. At that time, the market situation, as far as I can remember, was also favourable, and you did not do so. Is that why someone called them to account? Not until today. The long stories and complications that have led to today’s situation may not have to be repeated, perhaps just because today’s situation has taken many years under the rule of government. All this time, we had a bank that was supposed to benefit everyone, make profits and give us a chance to help our people and the economy when needed. In most cases, my dears, this mission of NLB State-owned did not come true, but it did produce most of the crisis losses that we all are paying now. We would, too, personally, want it to be different, and I still believe that the country in the future must be co-owner of the banks that will be able to play this role. Of course, administrations and supervisors must have a different opinion. Therefore, the State remains more than a quarter and at the same time the largest NLB shareholder. Therefore, NLB is also defined in the governance strategy as an important investment with a protected dominant share of the country in order to maintain control over assets, which must work for the benefit of all and not just some. One of the first steps is to finally get rid of the weights that were hanged when the country was forced to cut down with state aid and in return to promise partial privatisation of the bank to get rid of the compensatory measures that today, my dears, anger the people in Koroška, when we close up in Montenegro at the Koroška office in Borovnica and elsewhere. But this was done by the current bank administrations, which are 100 percent owned by the state. We need a share in a bank that will finally be able to manage for the benefit of all. Everything else, and all these debates are more contributing not to this objective, but, above all, to some confusion. That is why, today, we will not be the Social Democrats who are passionate about defending our conduct or trying to blame each other, but we want to be a little more objective in this matter. If we also look at NLB from an objective and not just political perspective, then this NLB may have a perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President. On 15 November, at the request of the Left, we rejected the proposal to stop the sale. At that time there was a debate, a discussion that we experienced as a rerun again on 26 November at the request of other applicants, at the time was the SDS, Nova Slovenije and SNS, which in particular wanted to talk about responsibility, who and in what way, and especially why it was sold for so many and so many banks. Today we have exactly the same topic before us, the difference is that there are a few more people and speakers and debates will be exactly the same. Nothing different than one week ago, the difference will be just one – that one or the middle or third party will look completely different and have its dawn than this debate. That's it. That's all we're going to experience today. What was really important is one thing in particular, and that is that we simply will probably never be able to agree on what was right and what was wrong. SMC led the government in its previous term and, because of its responsibility as chairman in this government, does not run away from responsibility, just from none. And I make it very clear that there will be no misunderstanding about who is to blame and who is not to blame. However, the way we are going to identify this responsibility – by the way, it has been discussed and discussed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly – is not recognised as would have been the case by the proponents. For this there are three instruments: a constructive non-confidential, confidential and interpolation. However, if we are talking about the previous government, because we can only make these arguments in the current government, which leads, but if we are talking about previous governments, we have investigative commissions that determine the political responsibility for material or any other damage. In this country, we had three investigative commissions on this issue, as far as the bank hole is concerned, and as far as the operation of the banks is concerned. Of these, one of the biggest candidates has actually been led by two investigative commissions. In the previous term, we confirmed the Commission's report and there is no record of what we would like to discuss today. That is why it seems extremely unrealistic for us to find and change these debates today, because it is nothing more than just some kind of political debate, which is common in parliamentary democracy, but it is not normal for us to understand that we will know what we are actually discussing today. Of course, it is always a question of whether we will only talk about the period that we have before us and proposed by the proposers. Look, we are only talking about the time from 2014 until today. However, everyone in this room, including those who led the two investigative commissions on this subject, knows that the problem of the banking system is from the very beginning. Therefore, we will only talk about the previous government, which has actually led to this point that it is to blame because the bad bank has sold itself." Of course, it just won't hold. If we are honest with citizens and want to have a broader framework, these things must be put in place and clearly stated when and where the problems of this bank and the banking system as a result began. The fact is that 1997 really failed the first plan, which was when the privatisation process of the bank was decided to begin. That was the end of the first recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, which was paid by all taxpayers. The reason for the privatisation was only one, which is to reimburse the costs we had with the first recapitalisation. This recapitalisation had already failed on the basis of Dr. Janez Drnovšk’s proposal, which at the time made the following commitment. This is to start the privatisation process with a control stake or under the assumption of 25% plus one share, which is still being maintained until today. Virtually all governments were more or less, when they came to such a decision, they wanted and began to run the process. Of course, the main reason for the sale itself was that it had never occurred mainly because there was no political interest. The only reason was to increase the efficiency of the bank. When there was a change of government, this was in 2005, when the government of Janez Janša, then essentially the umbrella privatisation plan of the 25 XY formula, which means nothing more than an old recipe of 25% plus one share. This, of course, keeps the control percentage. Of course, everything happened differently. Neither was the sale, but only the resignation of then Minister Jožet P. Damian, who left the government in protest because the privatisation itself did not take place. This Jože P. Damian admits only last year in his blog, where he writes, quote: “In view of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, it is expected to be very complicated. The new Ljubljana Bank would be extremely difficult to privatise in normal situations, which I have experienced and for which I have also resigned.” This has already made it more clear that the time when the bank could be sold very well has not happened under the government of Janez Janša, which, of course, today’s proponents are reading and talking about all possible things. Why? Finally, there was always the same conclusion: due to the political inadmissibility of selling the New Ljubljana Bank, because it has been a hot skeleton for the last 20 years: selling — not selling, selling — not selling, selling — not selling. We kept talking about the same story. The matter, of course, continues with the government of Borut Pahor, then they agree and agree that the matter must be recapitalised either by selling or by selling public shares, or even by entering an interested buyer. And that's when the decision goes down to make the sale make sense to go into that kind of sum. It was the next story. The then finance minister was not interested in such a way of privatisation. More than that, he made it very clear that this must be state-owned. Later he changes his strategy, softens it a little bit, allows a possible withdrawal, but we all know the very famous and famous Kitzbühel affair, where more or less of the story failed, because he was then interested in buying the New Ljubljana Bank Sachs, and then the finance minister objected that anything like this would happen. Why am I saying this? I speak for a simple reason, because in fact we have even a plaza and the history of this unfortunate story of the New Ljubljana Bank, where it was just a matter of negotiating whether or not we will have it or not, whether we will get rid of it or continue to recapitalise it. In fact, in the air, there was only one idea at all times, which is that this is a system bank, a strong regional bank, and we must never sell this bank, because when the crisis comes, this bank will always be able to jump in crisis as the main and first sanator or as some kind of assistance to the Slovenian economy. The fact is, throughout history, NLB has not yet played the role that it should have played at that time. And that is what we all felt when the financial and economic crisis occurred. The non-system bank, which was not set up for this, has previously and more helped as the NLB, I am talking about the SID Bank, which is illogical, which even the European Commission has warned us to restructure such a bank to have the task and the opportunity to do so, or to stop doing so immediately. The Epilogue of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is not how it was sold, but mainly to be sold under certain requirements that have occurred elsewhere. Today I am listening to the attractions of how we sold ourselves to the European Commission, that the European Commission is making demands and that only we are subject to all these sales. That's not true. The NCB, which was formerly co-owner of the New Ljubljana Bank, also had to sell the shares, one euro per share of the New Ljubljana Bank, which means that KBC was then able to pay off nearly 2.7 million for the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank, by the way, and they had to invest about 500 million in the same bank due to demands and commitments, because it had received State aid, to sell a share in the New Ljubljana Bank. And not just us, but the rest of the banks where she had her shares. So far it is not a theory that the only New Ljubljana Bank and Slovenia is the one who had to fall to its knees. Finally, let's not forget, the demands on what we're going to do and which bank we're going to sell, we're going to decide and we're going to take it ourselves. It was not said "you must do this", but the European Commission has warned us about this all the time. However, when the commitments were made, there were only demands, and the price was increasing with each delay. And in the end, the epilogue made its own. What we've done to sell ourselves to the bank is more or less clear. I would therefore repeat only four key facts that are most important at this time when we are discussing the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. The first is that the implementation of the sale has a positive impact on the country's credibility in international capital markets and that it can have a positive impact on the evolution of the budget financing costs. The second fact that the implementation of the sale gives a clear signal to the European Commission and the international financial markets that Slovenia respects the commitments made. Thirdly, Slovenia, in its discussions with the European Commission a year ago, has achieved that even after privatisation in the bank, the country will be able to retain a control stake of 25 per cent plus 1 share and remain a regional player in the Balkans, which has also happened. Last but not least, Nova Ljubljanska Banka is one of the most prestigious stock exchanges in the world, just like the only Slovenian company. Those are the facts. Everything else will be watched today only ring and political reckoning, so, dear colleagues, when you propose, choose the right path. Do it the way it does. But if you want to have a daily dessert show, I'm sorry you didn't make it. You work very unprofessionally despite years of experience and knowledge. You've disappointed me personally because you're getting worse from day to day. You're less professional than you used to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Željko Cigler, on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u22	Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! The majority share of the New Ljubljana Bank was sold in November. This meeting of the National Assembly is today convened due to an alleged lower price than expected at the time of sale of the 59 % share. We call it the other way around. Maybe I'll be a little different here from Mr Möderndorfer. This meeting should be convened because the bank has even sold itself. In the introduction, Mr Jelinčič said something exactly, and this is that it is a system bank, which is developed in the West, also economically developed and smart on this side, it does not sell. And that such actions, which are wrong, are harmful to both economic sovereignty and the population. Finally, Mr Marko Pogačnik rightly pointed out that, despite the various restrictions imposed on the operation of the bank by the European Community, it is a highly profitable bank. That's probably what all economists can confirm. Banks like that don't sell. And what's interesting today is, if we confirm that one large capital minus was achieved by selling it, we're very able to accept it. However, the National Assembly will otherwise discuss when we talk about the necessary means to provide long-term care for the elderly in Slovenia, to raise pensions or to raise criminally low wages, which generate high profits for workers in the Republic of Slovenia, who are now protesting in front of the Chamber of Commerce and advocating that the work in Slovenia is due to a greater share of the generated income. Over the past five years, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should challenge the blackmail of the European Commission to sell the bank, to which we have invested 2.3 billion euros in public money through recapitalisation. Public warnings by the lawyer, European and international law experts working in the European Community, Mrs Ana Stanič, who warned that Slovenia had not fought with neither legal nor economic means nor analysis and had demonstrated to the European Community that this opinion should be changed, we have practically all heard. There is a legal basis for this, namely in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to which we have been alerting in Levica all the time. That's what our macro-economicist, the established Dr. Jože Mencinger, who was vice-president of the Demos' government, is always pointing out. This is always pointed out by a number of economists and lawyers, and last but not least, the finance minister of the Pahor's government, Dr. France Križanič, who certainly, when working at the Byte Institute, has an insight and a clear opinion on these matters. That's what we warned them last year, warned them in the summer that the bank should not be sold, we warned them just before and during NLB's sale. Our calls, the calls of the Left, and the economic and large part of the legal profession also came across deaf ears in the Republic of Slovenia. Those who do not object to the privatisation of the financial sector would probably agree that, in the case of the NLB system bank, which is, in addition to the SID, of course, as Mr Möderndorfer has mentioned earlier, such work was unwise in view of the development of the Slovenian economy and especially in the event of new financial crises. Many developed countries do not allow the share of foreign ownership in the banking sector to exceed 50%, as this exposes the country to higher risks. Again, I agree with my colleague, Mr Yelinčič, who has highlighted this. So that there will be no mistake in the system in which we live, new crises will come sooner or later. Especially in the peripheral countries of the European Community, such as Slovenia, the system bank has so much greater weight in directing economic development and strategic investment or capital allocation. The development of our economy is a side-by-side matter for the new majority owners, which are most financial investors, the New Ljubljana Bank. Their interest and only interest is the price of the shares. When the price of shares falls, it is the financial investors who will be the first to escape. If anyone thinks that majority private property has protected against the state's solution to the next crisis, he is mistaken. With the current ownership structure, everything will fall back to the country quickly, this is the concern for the economic development of the Republic of Slovenia and its economy. To remind you, just before the previous crisis of the New Ljubljana Bank, this was not a state bank. The country had only a third share in it; the Belgian NCB had practically the same share. Among other things, since its entry into the bank, it has been controlled by the Risk Management Department. Well, when the risks escalated into billions of losses during the crisis, the NCBs simply withdrew from the bank and left the Republic of Slovenia with additional taxes, if I say so in narrations, to its citizens, which I had already told them before, what incomes they must be making. Logically, NLB is not a system bank for Belgium, even less for financial investors, NLB is a system bank for Slovenia, Slovenian companies, Slovenian savers and taxpayers, so the rescue costs will always fall on them. In addition, the purchases received by the State from the sale of that bank may disappear as soon as possible. This summer, on the proposal of the Minister in his departure, Mateja Vraničar Ermanova, passed a law which redirects the lawsuits of Croatian savers from the bank to the state and to the state budget. All parties except the Left and the Slovenian national parties voted for it. The result of the law is that in the case of Nova Ljubljanska bank, the inhabitants of Slovenia can be harmed for the third time. For the first time, we had to recapitalize NLB. Second, when it's sold at a price, we say it now and we cry after the funeral. Thirdly, when compensation is to be paid from the state budget for Croatian savers and authorised holders of subordinated bonds, as has already been said before, what amount will this be, EUR 406 million has been mentioned. We insist in Levica that the sale of the largest system bank is not only uneconomic but is generally harmful. Slovenian citizens are crucified between two power cuts, European and domestic, with their own government at the helm. They have been denied collective financial sovereignty by the sale of banks, and the state and its economy are even more reliant on the periphery of Europe. Let me add this to the end. We are all aware that this meeting is irrelevant. There is no vote, as the Committee rejected the proposaler's conclusions. However, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly correctly stated that the Government's responsibility under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is exercised by means of a confidential, non-disclosure or interpretation for the current government of course. But we are talking about the responsibility of a government that has already left, and about the actions that it has not done, we are reading the bank's non-sales. That is why we invite, for the end of Levic, — please listen — to look to the future. The country owns another system bank — the Bank. The sale process of this bank has started, but according to the NLB sales price fiasco, it must be clear to everyone that this will happen again in the event of the Bank's privatisation. It's not too late to stop this sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u24	Good day to you all! It is certainly right and good that we finally sold the New Ljubljana Bank. The effects of this sale of the New Ljubljana Bank I am sure they will be positive in the long term. Last but not least, this bank has been extremely poorly managed in the past. And especially due to the poor management of this bank, we had to rehabilitate it twice by taxpayers. Where do taxpayers get the wedding to make this bank better managed in the future, given that politics was the one that had its long fingers, the weight of its fingers is always deep in management itself? He's not here for this wedding. From this bank they had taxpayers and taxpayers extremely few, struggling little, almost nothing. After all, we have gotten rid of the mother of many affairs in the last 30 years, the mother of many affairs, which has undermined the reputation of Slovenia in the international community as well. Did we get a good price or a expected price? I'm saying no, too. That the price we received for the New Ljubljana Bank is too low. But, ladies and gentlemen, the market is the one that always sets the price, and in particular today, let us take into account how we have stood, how we have operated on this market, when we have tried to sell the New Ljubljana Bank several times over the last 20 years. However, it would certainly be the worst price for the New Ljubljana Bank if the banks did not sell at all and there would be predictions that the European Commission would be the one selling our businesses across the Balkans. So what's still worth selling us would be the European Commission. In this case, we would have at least the lowest possible price from the New Ljubljana Bank. Remember how former Minister Vraničarova used to go to Brussels to pray, to negotiate according to the Government, but she always ran into no ears, closed doors, because commitments, ladies and gentlemen, must be respected. In exchange for these commitments, we had other options. But does anyone wonder that the stock price isn't good? I'm not surprised. I'm not surprised we got the lowest possible price, says 51.5 euros per share. Let's see. First time. Wrong decision on how to sell, this strategy was adopted by the previous government, the dispersed ownership. I'm sure it wasn't good, and it was the wrong decision. Another time. In the past, we have been extremely unrealistic in the sale of the New Bank of Ljubljana and we have been selling under pressure. I agree with those of you who say the procedure was unconstitutional. Yes, the former government, ladies and gentlemen, acted uneconomically in the course of the sale process. It has been completely uneconomic since 215 onwards since the adoption of the strategy. Why isn't the price good? First of all, the government decided last year at that famous meeting when Minister Vraničar offered to resign, the government decided to stop the sale. The lower limit for the share was set at 55 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, if we now recalculate 11 million 818 thousand shares times 55 euros, we would get about 42 million euros more for the New Ljubljana Bank last year. And here is the question of the previous ruling coalition, SMC, SD and Desus – 42 million euros more! However, attention must also be paid to the fact that last year the risk of Croatian savers in this sale has already been taken into account. Who now accepts risky Croatian savers at the price of 51.5 euros? Republic of Slovenia. In the past, last year it wasn't like that. And this is the question of the ruling coalition today, we can only release LMSH. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that last year bank indices were 20% better than this year's. The market situation was exceptional compared to November 2018. And yet you said no. Some experts say that given all these three segments, the real risk with the Croatian savers that we have now taken over, the share price of 42 million euros more, plus a better market situation, can be obtained for about 65 to 70 euros per share. This is the SMC, SD and Desus question. Ladies and gentlemen, last year Prime Minister Miro Cerar, when the Government decided not to sell the banks, said: “When we respect our commitments to Brussels, I repeat my very clear expectation: that we cannot and cannot sell the New Ljubljana Bank in a way that would harm our taxpayers who have invested a great deal of money in this bank.” So “in a way that would harm our taxpayers again”. Last year's suspension of sales damaged taxpayers. Here present Minister Dejan Židan said: "Today's decision is entirely in line with the thinking of the Social Democrats. We expect that the money that taxpayers have committed will be strongly repaid." And Mr. Jew puts his confidence in talking to Brussels. What are you betting on today, Mr. Jew? What are we betting on today? Ah, Mr. Jew's gone. To the minus. Last year, if I did say it again, we'd have won more. And all those who talk about dividends, if we go so far as to speculate on dividends, that because we sold the bank, this year we got 200 million more, ladies and gentlemen, if we go to such speculation, then I estimate that the best time to sell the New Ljubljana Bank in January, February or March this year could be, Mr Secretary of State, if we sell, for example, March, we could keep dividends for this year. But it was a political and purely political decision, and during the few months before the elections, I believe it was not in the interest of the former ruling coalition, given the state of the spirit and the battles for the national interests of this country, to sell the bank. If I go any further, what happened was that we got the price we got this year. Look, investors or investors knew we had to sell the bank to sell the bank under duress. Do you think that potential investors didn't know that Brussels was squeezing us, that Vranicari was going to Brussels, knocking on the door, and that nothing was opening up to her? Of course they knew. And, logically, they dragged us to the bottom because we just didn't have a choice. Whatever range we have given, the lower limit would certainly apply because: take this price and sell or the European Commission will sell parts of this bank itself. And again, the fact that we did not sell the banks last May is high, if we add up all these three segments, about 150 million euros, the risk of 300 million euros with Croatian savers. And this account, ladies and gentlemen, taxpayers, is displayed to SMC, SD and Desus, i.e. to the parties of the former coalition that form a prominent majority of this coalition today. And this account, ladies and gentlemen, is on your conscience. Why wasn't the best price? As I said in the introduction, it is also because of the decision on the size of the sales shares and the way in which they were sold. In the strategy adopted in 2015, the government decided to dispose of so-called dispersed ownership. With this, we have renounced the strategic investor. If we opted for a strategic investor, a larger bank, a foreign bank, anything, we could certainly get at least 20% more for the New Ljubljana Bank than the way IPO sells. In no way is the diversified ownership paid and the strategic investor in this decision of the Government to sell 75% minus 1 share would not buy the bank. I would express the same desire as expressed by KBC, it is said that it wants to have 75 plus 1 shares in its own. Unfortunately, the country still retains this 25% as a controlling share. What for? Tell me what. Because he loves the influence and his hands in this story on the other side of the Republic Square. That's too bad. In doing so, we lost another 20% than we could have gotten. If the government decided to sell 75 plus 1 shares to a strategic investor, it would really get a lot more. The assessment, as I have already said, is that 20 to 25% could be gained more if we were looking for a strategic investor rather than a dispersed ownership. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the responsibility of the previous government to sell the New Ljubljana Bank as badly as we sold it. Only on the previous government. I believe, yes, of course, we could have sold the New Ljubljana Bank in the past. Even during the period of our government, as Social Democrats have seen, but you know, there were the same gentlemen sitting in that government, the same party that is now sitting in your government. There are others who are outside the House. And this is what led up to the fact that we did not sell the New Ljubljana Bank in 2007. And we'd have one conglomerate to pay the bank hole less. But did we learn anything: SMC, SD, Desus and this time a new LMSH? Have we learned anything? Because these days we can read the news that we are talking to Brussels, Mr. Secretary of State, about the sale of Abanka – if we postpone this sale a little bit, can we negotiate something to have one strategic bank in our hands? The epilogue of this new story is that again we give false signals to foreign investors and, in particular, that these commitments are respected, not because of ourselves, but because the country has been proven not to be a good bank manager. The same will happen with Abanka that foreign investors will pressure us because of our decision, because of our quasi-negotiations. Why are you doing this? Haven't we learned enough about the case of the New Ljubljana Bank and are we trying to find the system bank in the Bank again? For country development projects, we have a SID bank here for strategically important projects. Do you think that other, foreign banks or banks that are not state-owned would not be able to lend money to important investment projects? They're after money and it's profit. Of course we'd come to the rescue. How many loans does Nova Ljubljanska banka rent with Intesa, and how many loans does the state have with Intesa, with other banks? Or state-owned companies. Do you think they're hiring everyone here in the Republic Square? No, no, no. Do you think the end of the world will be if we don't have the Bank and the Ljubljana Bank anymore? No, the world will run forward and far more favourable for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much! The last position of the SAB Group will be presented by Mr Andrej Šushmelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u26	Nicely greeted! Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The original decision on the sale of NLB was not taken at the time of the previous government and not at the time of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, as it is very often mistakenly cited. In 2012, the decision on the sale of NLB was adopted by the Government of Janez Janša by the Decree on the management of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in NLB, d.d., and in the National Assembly was confirmed by the then coalition composed of the parties SDS, Nova Slovenija, DeSUS and the State Gazette of Gregor Virant. I quote: "The Republic of Slovenia wishes to maintain only 25% and 1 share in NLB in the long term and is prepared to reduce its share to 25% and 1 share by recapitalisation in 2012 if there is an interest in the entry of potential investors in capital markets." The end of the 2012 quote. That's right, Your Honor and Your Honor. The decision was taken in 2012. But what followed? The year was 2013 when our President, Alenka Bratušek, took over the government, the year when Slovenia was the hardest and worst in the entire existence of our country. The country was just before bankruptcy, the money in the pension budget, the salaries of doctors, teachers, nurses and other public servants were only for a few months. The situation in the economy was critical, we recorded a nearly 5% decline in economic activity, interest on government debt was recordly high, also unemployment, and prospects for the future were very, very black. In 2013, there was no analyst or journalist who would not ask again every day when Slovenia would go bankrupt. The rehabilitation of banks was therefore one of the key measures for the financial stabilisation of the country, which prevented bankruptcy and thus the arrival of the troika and the preservation of financial sovereignty. The measures taken by the Government of Alenka Bratušek were necessary at the time, and one of the highest economic growth in the European Union is further recorded. By December 2013, NLB had already recapitalised twice by receiving state aid of a good EUR 2.5 billion from the country. Twice. Once at EUR 250 million in 2011 and once at EUR 383 million in 2012. On both occasions, we had to obtain an agreement to obtain this recapitalisation by the European Commission. The European Commission is the only one who can grant such State aid and in return for approval is expected to compensate adequately for the market situation in which the State aid reaches. When we wanted to recapitalise the bank for the third time, the European Commission no longer trusted us. It's expected. They requested an in-depth review of the banking system, which for the first time revealed the dimensions of all the problems the then government had to face in 2013. The second fact is that the conditions arising from this Decision on State aid granted, in addition to limiting activities to basic activities and improving risk management and management policies, include the sale of State shares up to 25 % and 1 share by the end of 2017. In 2013, it seemed very far away at the end of 2017. At that time, the European Commission assessed that NLB, by transferring a group of bad loans and a list of equity instruments to the DUTB, had cleared its balance sheet and established a profitable business model that would encourage its return to a successful business. In the Resolution on the Capital Investment Management Strategy, the 2015 strategy was adopted by the Government of Mir Cerar with the support of the SMC, SD and Desus coalition parties, the State's capital investment in NLB is intended to be resold in proportion as determined by the European Commission, i.e. 25% plus one share. The sale – led by SDH and not by the Government – began with preparatory actions for the sale of the bank following the first public offering of shares in January 2016. In April 2016, Deutsche Bank was selected as a financial advisor for the sale of capital investment. If I snore. The European Commission has not asked us for anything that we have not already set ourselves. The fact that we had to sell the bank is kind of right. No firm or bank on the market of the European Union shall be in a privileged position of unfair competition because it harms the market and all others who are not in such a situation. What we have been alerting ourselves to in 2016 and 2017, and what will be in our eyes today, was contrary to the statements made by then’s government representatives, which showed a great deal of irresistance in the sale – or by the sale to continue, or can it be delayed by sale? We are convinced that this determination has come sadly too late. In the years 2014 to 2018, we have repeatedly warned about this in the Alenka Bratušek Party. We talked about banks in many of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We asked for a lot of these meetings ourselves, and we also spoke loudly about banks in the context of the questions sent, much before the press, and we called several press conferences. The time for the final sale was in 2014, perhaps even in 2015 and then, we firmly believe, the final takeover would be different, perhaps better, but certainly different. But we all know after the battle it's very easy to be a general. Or if we're talking about the size of the bank hole or the appropriateness of the NLB price. The question of whether or not NLB sells, never exists in our society and there would be some general consensus. This is a question that raises emotional reactions in people, a question that strongly divides the public, but now it is what it is. The bank has been sold and we can only hope that SDH has found a bank of good owners who will be able to handle the growth and development of the bank. We will not support the recommendation in the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The first is Mrs Natasa Sukić, and Lidija Ivanuša is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u28	Madam President, thank you for saying so! Dear colleagues and colleagues! As we have already stressed today, this meeting has been convened, due to an alleged lower price than expected, for a total of 59 % of the share, which is of course a major problem. In our view, the key problem is the disposal of the New Ljubljana Bank itself, so this meeting should be convened for a completely different reason, whose main issue would be: why the system bank was sold. In order not to see any flossules or empty political slogans, I will quote the findings of some prominent Slovenian economists who are surprisingly unique, namely, that Nova Ljubljanska Banka was, compared to European banks, an extremely safe bank with an extremely favourable investment structure, with an over-average growth potential in the region, an average profitability and hidden profit in the balance sheet. For reasons why the Republic of Slovenia had to sell the bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, did not hold. At the time of recovery, the bank was 100 % state-owned and the recapitalisation of the bank is a perfectly normal operation of the owner at the request of the regulator, according to Banka Slovenije in this case, and has nothing to do with State aid, as was misinterpreted or deliberately argued. So it's a deceiving act. That the so-called commitments that we have heard here on several occasions, the representatives of the Republic of Slovenia or the requirements of the European Union after the sale of the bank had no legal basis and thus were not in fact binding, although, of course, much of it, they were manipulated precisely by this – that they were bound. The acceptance by the representatives of the Republic of Slovenia of such requests means either unforgivable negligence in the performance of their tasks or the issuance of the vital interests of the State. In fact, this should be discussed once and for all in this national assembly, and it should be finished with pure wine. They are also united in the fact that the price offered to the bank was more than half lower than the European average of bank shares prices, despite the fact that Nova Ljubljanska Banka was safer and profitable than the European average and has a greater growth potential. They agree that the sale of the bank is, under conditions of accelerated decline in the price of bank shares and under unfavourable macroeconomic conditions, to which, say brexit, the Italian financial crisis and so on, a completely non-economic move. As regards the strategic aspect, they are united that the sale of the bank was strongly negative in view of the long-term development of the Republic of Slovenia. The sale of the New Ljubljana Bank means the sale of about a quarter of the Slovenian banking market. Together with Abank, if it comes to its sale – this is currently a very topical issue – about a third of the Slovenian banking market. Most importantly, the country is losing key leverage for economic intervention in the event of a new financial and economic crisis. Let us not blind ourselves, in the system in which we live, the new crises will come sooner or later, even if they are artificially created, as is the case in the brutal conditions of neoliberal economic policies, which the followers of Friedman's fundamentalist free market doctrine at all costs enjoy. In the case of the former crisis in Chile and Argentina, Naomi Klein, a cult author and social activist, well-known for her analysis and criticism of corporate globalisation and capitalism, analysed and demonstrated this. And it's ironic that we all agree on that here, too. This is about a new global economic crisis happening sooner rather than later. This is why it is all the more important to realize that, even in peripheral countries of the European Union, such as Slovenia, the system bank has so much weight in directing economic development and strategic investment or capital allocation. Unfortunately, it is too late to stop the collapse of the former system bank, according to the New Ljubljana Bank. However, we strongly call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to immediately halt the privatisation of the Bank so that the national disaster will not be even greater in the future. If I refer again to Naomi Klein's findings on artificial crises, it is not only that at the time of the decision to sell the New Bank of Ljubljana the macroeconomic circumstances were significantly worse than they were today, but also that it could be said with certainty that Slovenia was in an artificially induced macroeconomic shock, as I believe, for example, former Minister of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia Franc Križanič. To substantiate that, at that time, the servicing of our debt, the issuance of bonds and treasure menus was greatly encouraged. This promotion was not in any proportion to the real situation of Slovenia. Our economy has already achieved positive growth in the last quarter of 2013, which has been going on for 13 quarters. Slovenia did not miss payment of loans for one day, solvency and liquidity. In short, this situation has been artificially created to some extent. It is responsible for at least three factors, namely: credit rating agencies, European institutions and Slovenian politicians. Credit rating agencies and various financial media have a financial interest in encouraging the indebtedness of a country more than the required income, higher interest rates are reached by creditors. That's the logic behind it. Our politicians were also responsible for the artificial macroeconomic shock. For example, another Janša government, its representatives publicly declared that Slovenia was in front of bankruptcy and so on, and even called for the arrival of the troika in Slovenia. This, of course, was against the interest of Slovenian citizens, but these are already questions for an investigative commission. We're certainly not gonna solve them here today. The first anti-privatisation argument, to which we have been alerting in Levica all the time and continue to point out, when there is also the Bank at the impact, is that in such circumstances it is impossible to reach at least some real value. And that is also clear here today, which is why today this meeting is actually here, because of the ransom price of the New Ljubljana Bank. We have seen that Nova Credit Bank Maribor, for example, sold for poor EUR 250 million, which is more than half of its book value. We have seen, for example, the case of Helios, who, together with the US funds, sold it for 572 million euros after three years, even though he only bought it for the fights of 145 million euros. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these are things that happen in the event of such privatisations by both our financial system institutions and our paradoxical companies. However, the second argument against such privatisations is and remains long-term. The Left does not oppose the privatisation of strategic financial institutions because they would agree with the governance of state banks so far, it is said that the poor governance of state banks is far from that. However, the state and public ownership of banks is required for at least two reasons, because banks cover the accumulation of the whole country and thus enable investment, and in the last crisis it has been well demonstrated that private banks played a leading role in inflating the balloon, which were then to be resolved through debt socialisation. In short, banks are too important to leave to private capital. This is an infrastructure activity that cannot operate according to a classic profit motive. If the bank operates strictly on a profit motive, it works just as our banks are currently operating – bad. They have record deposits, but at the same time they do not pay off credit to the economies. Finally, let us look at some of the concerns that are rightly asked by some of our distinguished economists. For example: Why did we sell the bank for between 15 and 35% below the average European price if its current profitability is above the average profitability of European banks? Why have we sold the New Ljubljana Bank for between 15 and 35% below the average European price if its dividend return, or according to capital and European average, is at least three times higher or given the planned minimum long-term profit and the planned dividend return at least twice the European average? Why? Why did we sell the New Ljubljana Bank for between 15 and 35% below the average European price if the structure of its balance sheet and bank security, the liquidity reserve, the share of the bad claims, their coverage, the loan ratio – is significantly better than the European average? Why, respected colleagues and colleagues? Why did we sell the New Ljubljana Bank for between 15% and 35% below the average European price, but if the bank operates on the part of Europe, it is said in South-Eastern Europe, which has the least saturation with banking services and thus significantly greater growth potential than other European banks? Last but not least: Why did we sell the New Ljubljana Bank for between 15% and 35% below the average European price, but if the Bank's capital adequacy is far above the European average and the regulatory requirements, which means that Nova Ljubljanska Bank has a potential for significant growth without requiring additional capital, or that it has a significant security cushion in the event of a new financial crisis? These are questions, respectable colleagues and colleagues, which should be looked at once and stopped wondering how to privatize everything and get rid of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following will be given the floor by the proposaler, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we speak that we should not sell the New Ljubljana Bank or that this session should be about how to go back – it will not work. The sale is an irreversible process and on 29 November 2018 the Republic of Slovenia has only 7 million shares or 35% in the ownership structure. If we want to come back to 100 percent ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, the process is very simple, perhaps very close to someone’s heart, it’s nationalisation. Of course we don't fit in. However, I agree with many of you who have rightly said that in the past few years we have had marathon discussions on state-owned enterprises or better on state-owned enterprises, state-owned banks and so on. And what matters is, whatever we imposed on the Government in the National Assembly, none of this was acceptable to the Government, even if the idea came — and there were good ideas — by the opposition. I hope that, once again, we will be a true parliamentary democracy, as we were able to learn from last night's case in the British Parliament, when the Government just before the key vote on brexit received quite a slap from Parliament. I will not say opposition by Parliament. One day this National Assembly will be an autonomous legislative branch of government that will oversee the functioning of the Government. It's amazing that we're talking, as it were, about state-owned companies. We are virtually not talking about excellent Slovenian companies, about 200,000 of them have different forms under the Company Act. Why don't we talk about Dewesoft from Trbovlje or the Roto Corporation from Prekmur? Because there are no problems because they function normally, they develop, they have high added value, they pay taxes, they pay satisfied employees and so on and so on. Unfortunately, these discussions on state-owned enterprises will continue for as long as the state-owned enterprises, state-owned enterprises, are not able to find more responsible owners. More responsible owners. That's how we understand the privatisation process, that's looking for more responsible owners. I would like to discuss, yes, all these companies in Slovenia, in order to discuss a better business environment, not just to discuss, take key decisions on how to improve the business environment. In particular, what the state must do to help increase productivity of all Slovenian companies. As you know, the productivity of the Slovenian economy is about 19% below the European average. And there are problems that we should talk about competently. If productivity is to be increased, we need to invest more in business development in order to increase the added value of the employee. But not to talk about what we must not let go of, and to write on this column, NLB, in capital letters: this is ours. A fantastic result reached NLB in the previous business year – congratulations to management – but so did we, all of us taxpayers. Why? Because we have helped dramatically with these business results. We patched up a bank hole or, more precisely, we took bad claims from the New Ljubljana Bank somewhere else, to a bad bank, which means there were no literary weaknesses like in some past period. That's why this score is so good. For the first time, the new Ljubljana Bank was recapitalised with €250 million on 7 March 2011, and for the second time, as reported by the European Commission, I read European Commission documents with €383 million on 2 July 2012 and €558 million on 3rd recapitalisation, which was in December 2013. Sounds like a good billion and a half. And when we received a State aid permit from the European Commission with document SA.33229 dated 18 December 2013 to the New Ljubljana Bank, of course, the then government – because all of this happened exclusively in the government domain, the government of Alenka Bratušek – also accepted the entire catalogue of commitments. It's a commitment catalogue. And if you make some commitments, if you're in a civilized society, in some regulated society, if you're a member of the European Union, then you have to keep those commitments. Then came another government, Mira Cerar, and we were looking for solutions to how the government would now avoid these commitments. Several times, by New Slovenia, we have warned by calling on urgent meetings of the Committee on Finance, the Commission on Public Finance Supervisory, with questions from the government: "What are you doing in the area of privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, because this is our commitment?" Then came that 29 June 2017, when the arbitral tribunal established the border between Slovenia and Croatia, of course it has no connection with the New Ljubljana Bank, but it has a link with the European acquis. I said myself at the time that the European legal order must be respected. The European Union will stand or fall under the rule of law. However, at the same time as Slovenia sought allies in support of the implementation of the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, the same Slovenian government negotiated with the European Commission, in order not to fulfil the commitments set out in document SA.33229, i.e. the European Commission's approval of the recapitalisation or State aid to the New Ljubljana Bank. This has actually led to this too – I do not like to say this, but I must – that ours, ladies and gentlemen, is our specific weight in the institutions of the European Union, I will not say anything, but close to zero, because we are not a credible partner, because we would be a little bit so, in our own way. We want to be Europeans, but we can't be Europeans, so we're staying Balkan or we're staying if it goes that way. I am very sorry that the government of Mira Cerar simply did not want to hear any suggestions from the opposition at that time. And then came last June, I think it was June 8th, when the government, as the SDH Assembly, decided, probably because it found that they were close to the election, that the New Ljubljana Bank would not sell. So she broke the commitment made by the government of Alenka Bratušek in December 2013 to the European Commission. At that time, the first customers came in front of the cameras after the meeting and said, "We don't give NLB." As the SDH Assembly, they decided not to support the prospectus. And I quote, Miro Cerar: “We have studied all the reasons, both for and against.” This was the sentence of Mr Mir Cerar, then Prime Minister. Nor did it help to have the President of the Management Board of Nova Ljubljanska Bank, Mr Blaž Brodnjak, who, according to our information, explained to the ministers the consequences of not selling the bank. The President of the Management Board of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank therefore explained to the ministerial assembly in June 2017 that the consequences of not selling the New Ljubljana Bank would be the consequences. Now I understand so much more his joy, we watched him on TV screens, how happy he was that the bank sold, and he was lifting champagne. Ms Lidia Glavina and the Board member Nada Drobne Popovic also attended the meeting. That's not gonna happen either. Today we have already heard what the other two presidents of the coalition parties were like. I quote: "As you know, we already made a decision yesterday to oppose sales. I can say that we are very pleased with the government's decision," says Desusa champion Karel Viktor Erjavec. And what we have heard today, but it is good to repeat a matter of people remembering it more, let us remember: “Today’s decision is entirely in line with the thinking of the Social Democrats,” says Dejan Židan. “We expect that the money given by taxpayers will be strongly repaid” adds and bets on confidence and conversation with Brussels. Hand in hand, if anyone thought that we, taxpayers, former owners of the New Ljubljana Bank would get such a purchase, which would be the same, perhaps higher than we have thrown money into the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, which is really naive. My experience when I sell or buy a used car is that the sales price is always determined by the seller and the buyer and no one else. And if you're selling shares, it's actually the same thing. But where is the real reason why we signed the request for this meeting in New Slovenia? In view of the fact that last year, i.e. June 2017, the share price would be EUR 55 to 71 if NLB were to be sold. 55 to 71. Now that we sold the New Ljubljana Bank, we sold – thank God the SDH Assembly was quiet here, so the government of Marjan Šarca was quiet, thank God – and the price of the stock was within the ranges 51.5 and 66. We sold at the lowest price. This is what they explained to us: this is the market, they wouldn't sell this share if they didn't sell it at this lowest price, they say 51.5. So that's 3 euros and a half less than you could get for a share in June last year if you also sold it in June last year at the lowest price then defined. And the simple bill is, we sold 11 million 818 thousand 181 shares or 59.1%, and if we multiply this 11 million 800 thousand shares by the difference in the price of 3 euros, you get a good 41 million euros. And this is an account that we are presenting today to the three champions of the previous government, Dr. Cerar, mag. Jew and Karel Viktor Erjavec. Until then, until we put out the accounts for political responsibility, these stories that have been happening in the New Ljubljana Bank, which we have watched and suffered from heart attacks, will continue in state companies. Stories will continue when Slovenia pays millions of fines because we are unable, say, to implement some European directives into Slovenian legislation. And no one gets hurt. 8 million there, 1 million there, 7 million there – yes, and then normally they can't be paid higher! We are working towards higher wages to relieve the wages each person receives from the workers on the running lane to that top surgeon. Yes, he can't, the state has to burden everyone with all these thugs, all these fines! It won't be any different. It won't work. From where? In what way should we increase productivity in Slovenian companies when we are so far behind the European average? What is the perspective of our citizens and citizens, and of young, educated people in general, if we carry out the so-called so-called business or final business? Young people have open eyes, they're extremely smart. Not only the 9 grand that packed the suitcases last year and went out looking for a better perspective, in those environments that are more relaxed, where they can more easily operate, if you want, cash out their intellectual, entrepreneurial and other abilities. Are we going to get involved in this area or not? He says no. And, of course, a mistake was made when the Government of Mira Cerar adopted a strategy for managing the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia in 2015 – in terms of the New Ljubljana Bank, I am now speaking – a dispersed ownership was required. At the moment this was recorded or in the National Assembly – we were against – the price of the shares of Nova Ljubljanska Bank was automatically reduced. Moreover, I have repeatedly disputed with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance why they do not, however, change the capital investment management strategy in chapter NLB because it does not comply with the European acquis. They even nodded me that I was right. Because there is a violation of the freedom of the European Union called the free movement of capital. To date, this infringement is still enshrined in this capital investment management strategy. I have quite a few cases of judgments by the Court of Justice of the European Union, where, in similar cases where the State has banned the free movement of capital, the European Commission has sued the Member State and received a smooth case before the EU court, i.e. the European Commission. What is more important is this debate, at least because it is clear to Members that if we are working for political functions, we should also be responsible, accountable to our citizens and citizens. First, to those – now you will say I am a demagog, but first to those — when our heart is torn, when we count and reach the number 280 thousand that live below the threshold of poverty at this fantastic economic growth. But, as it is said, when NLB sells 41 million, when European directives are not implemented here in our legal order, there are 8 million, there are 2 million, there are 4 million, just as we get the billion, how necessary for the development of Slovenian society and economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Logar, first of all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam President. In Slovenia we have a saying or a golden rule that says that the person who takes part in the robbery or who holds the bag in the robbery is about as guilty as the one who takes and throws it off the shelves. Today is an important day from one point of view. Indeed, colleague Sukičeva also asked publicly why the sale price of Nova Ljubljanska banka is between 15% and 30% lower than should be comparable sales in the European Union, and she made a mistake, 40% lower than it should be, and who is to blame. I think it has been more or less clearly presented here today, which actors have made political decisions that have led to this. These are three actors: Miro Cerar, Karl Erjavec and Dejan Židan. These three politicians are responsible for the lower price of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank than it could have been, and that the taxpayers will therefore get back less than they could. Because of their political decision, due to their political prestige, which Mr Dragonja very clearly explained in the following words here before the speaker, when he said, secondly, why they decided to make such a sale, which gave a lower profit, a lower price and gave us back less money to taxpayers: to maintain the country's important influence on the management of the New Ljubljana Bank. This is the sentence that tells you why we got less – because the government wanted to maintain the influence on the management of the New Ljubljana Bank. This cost us taxpayers now 400 million potential money that could be recovered. So, so that politics can still influence, because the largest share of SDH in the New Ljubljana Bank, in the decisions of the New Ljubljana Bank, we taxpayers had to contribute to the entire billion and a half billion that we have already given to the New Ljubljana Bank in 2013 to contribute to the altar of this additional 400 million euros. And now I'm getting to what I started. By Monday, until the meeting of the Committee on Finance, where it was proposed to investigate the political responsibility and compensation of these three men, it was the political decision on these three men. With the moment you did not support me for an unknown reason, both the SAB and the Levica, in order to identify the competent institutions, you started to hold the bag. In fact, you have made a cover or supported the political decisions that cost us EUR 400 million and have also taken political and compensation responsibility. Since Monday onwards, when this decision has not been adopted, and we cannot decide on it today, from Monday onwards, the entire coalition of six parties, the super-coalist Left and five parties are essentially responsible for it. We are no longer talking about the guilt of Mir Cerar, Karl Erjavac and Dejan Jedjan, but also about Luke Mesca, Alenka Bratusek and Marjana Šarc. Now we have 6 of those responsible for being injured by taxpayers for an additional 400 million due to an unwise political decision. Now I just don't understand why the super-coalionist party Levica hasn't put a little pressure on its coalition partners to put this sale in the water, at a price, because believe it, in the third, if there was a third attempt, we wouldn't sell the New Ljubljana Bank, because there would be no interest in it and we would – we would achieve our national interest – keep it in Slovenian ownership. And, as Mr State Secretary has said, we would maintain not only the important influence of the country on governance but the full impact of the country on the governance of the New Ljubljana Bank. Why didn't you go all the way then? But because you were afraid of the consequences? And I will say one more thing, this unwise decision, which is again probably some kind of performance for the public, which apparently goes to the finance minister of Bertonzel to try to postpone the sale or to prevent the sale of the Bank of Celje Story, will be the same as in the case of the New Bank of Ljubljana. If you think that because they haven't given in to NLB and they're going to give in to the Abank, you're right. They will squeeze you even more and more gladly because they know that this is a wintry way to force the extreme left government in Slovenia to sell the bank at a price. Only for the greater cost of taxpayers will this be done. More importantly, the commitments to sell Abanka and Banka Celje were not only signed by Alenka Bratušek, but signed by Miro Cerar during the next government, which is an even greater responsibility. In short, as of today or Monday, when you prevented decision-making, everyone on this side, and if you complain about the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, you did not ensure that the interest of taxpayers was protected. You did not see to it that compensation and political responsibility of those who have taken this decision are determined, and you have no right, indeed, to moralise on the sale of state property. No rights. For if you were really interested in taxpayers and those who elected you first, then you would have no difficulty in supporting this conclusion. Since we would not have been able to identify who is responsible, we would have identified responsible institutions, and we know who they are, the KPK, the judiciary or the prosecution, and so on. So I don't understand why those of you who didn't actually participate directly in this have become accomplices in this act of damage to the taxpayer's money. I don't understand, but perhaps the explanation in your coalition contract, which you signed with the sixth party that provides you with the majority, is that you have taken over these countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u33	Thank you. Now Mrs Lidija Ivanuša has the word, but he must prepare himself for the Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u34	Dearly beloved, all together! Today, we have a NLB table occupied by the political-economic elite, which, with its influence on the highest functions of NLB, has expanded its power and wealth. This is how these people took care of their offspring and themselves. Foreignly, the practice is that it is fair to pay for honest work, but in our country, the practice is such that the payment of the contract of employment is paid by bribe, commission, money laundering and collegiate service. The Bank’s political leadership granted high loans which were not adequately secured because the borrowers could not repay the loans. Thus, the bank granted a real estate loan worth about 100,000 euros to the person, and the person was granted a loan of about 150 euros and could not recover the difference in these real estate speculations, so the bankers usually put the money in their pocket. However, there have also been such things as the fact that an honest man was deprived of his property because of, say, unpaid bills. I can say that a person who contributes to the tax box has no protection against greed when the time of the individual’s crisis comes. The Bank has created a loss because it has not recovered the funds, which means that in the past the citizens of Slovenia had to make payments to the NLB, so that the bank was thus rehabilitated and covered the wrong decisions of the political personnel. According to public data, taxpayers have spent several billion euros in the last 20 years to exploit this sector. It is also known that during the previous mandate, the Commission of Inquiry was set up to identify abuses in the Slovenian banking system and to identify the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone, because our largest bank, NLB, has laundered a billion euro of Iranian money. This benefited those who made it possible and supervised, and none of them had been punished to this day. This is where I want to know who filled their suitcases. This is probably the case with all the citizens who contribute their share of the country — where did the money go? Could this money have been used to help the poor, buy some island in the Maldives? I don't know. I don't know where it all went. At this point, I can also say that all state authorities, notably law enforcement authorities and other bodies whose mission is to detect corrupt practices, have cancelled. In the course of today's debate, I would add that it is known which Slovenian decided to purchase a larger NLB stock package. It is this person who has been convicted this year of a criminal offence of causing bankruptcy, fraud and non-disclosure. By buying NLB shares for the amount of 51.5 euros, and if you sell them at today's price of approximately €59 by yesterday, figure out for yourself what profit this person has made. This profit was created at the expense of taxpayers, as NLB was sold under the right value, allowing the creation of the profits of the political-economic elite to be restored. It's not enough that they stole the money by lending the loans first, now they're still serving with speculation on the stock market. Foreign investors also purchased shares, but let us not forget that Croatian pension funds were among the buyers. These two funds did not buy a small percentage of the shares. With their contribution, Croats in NLB will have an important impact on the development of the Slovenian banking system. If an agreement was reached with the European Commission and future buyers knew about the sale and if they knew the final date of the sale, it is logical that there must have been something very wrong in the background so that NLB was not sold earlier when the shares were valued at between €55 and €71. This is where I think it is to bribe those who have kept selling until this year so that future investors can buy shares at a low price. In Slovenia we have experts who have warned that the exclusive price of shares is 51.5 too low and the bank is sold at a real price. Certain investors have already refined their purchases financially by purchasing low-priced shares and selling at a higher price in the same week. Others, however, are waiting for even greater profits due to the favourable purchase of shares and are waiting for the sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrey Shirtzelj, prepare the mag. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! To all those who are sorry for the New Ljubljana Bank, that it was partly sold, let me say that in the last 25 years each Slovenian has given the New Ljubljana Bank a donation of EUR 2 000. If we take how much each pensioner has paid, the pensioner is about 8,000 euros. Each worker and worker also has about EUR 8 000. Depending on who we actually take, which population, between €7 000 and €8,000, these two groups have actually paid donations in the last 25 years to the New Ljubljana Bank. This is easy if you share the recapitalisation of EUR 4 billion with the number of pensioners, the number of workers or the number of people in Slovenia. All those who are sorry. But the New Ljubljana Bank is an economic society, always an economic society. In other words, this means that, in accordance with the Company Act, it was obliged or its purpose was to establish a profit. It's legal. The profit achieved so simply – should not always have been achieved – that it earned on the so-called interest rate margin, which, in other words, simply means that at the deposits of this population, these pensioners and pensioners, these workers and workers, it charged lower interest than on the loan it had given them on the basis of these deposits, and it paid more interest. In a simplified way, during a given period, interest on deposits was 1 %, interest on credit was 3 % and the difference is 2 percentage points, and that is the interest margin. But she did not earn enough money to use that money for appropriate capitalisation or to have adequate capitalisation. No! No! Another 2,000 people in Slovenia in 25 years, from the baby to the oldest citizen, all had to pay through recapitalisation and so on. She paid, of course, on their behalf, through recapitalisation. So much for the success of this bank over the last 25 years. It is true, however, that in the last year or year 2017 she had profit and so on. And if you look at how many dividends the country has received from this bank, you'll see that this amount is significantly smaller, it could be ten times smaller. Which means the taxpayers were net payers twice. Once through depositing and depositing them there and then the bank deserves them when they give them credit, to them or to others, to anyone else, and the second time they recapitalise them through the Slovenian budget. And yes, of course, many times, even in 2012, as mentioned, it was decided to sell a 75 % share and to keep the country 25% plus 1 share. From today's point of view, probably when all these governments that came after 2012, could have changed this decision wrongly, because only 74% of the shares sold and 75% of the minus 1 shares sold are below the price. It's like you have a four-bedroom apartment and you sell this four-bedroom apartment, but not completely, only three rooms. How much less will this cost? That's about how it's actually on the market. And you also say that none of the buyers of this apartment will be allowed to have more than a quarter of the apartment. As none of the investors or buyers of shares should have more than the state, it is more than 25% and one share. Take a four-bedroom apartment, split it into rooms and you'll actually figure it out. How many buyers will have one apartment then? Eight and actually no one will be able to stay or live in this apartment. I'm not going to say it exactly, but we can do it this way. As a result, the price will be lower. And the price is lower because of wrong decisions or because of such a decision by the Government, which it confirmed, because of me, it can have already made a previous decision, but it has not made a better solution. Very simple. Time. See, if you recapitalise an undertaking or a bank, as the country has done, you actually reach out to the European Union, the country is reaching out to the competitive functioning of the market. That's not allowed. This is why the European Commission allows it to do so. This is as if, for example, the French state today said that the perfume industry, the cosmetic industry is extremely important to them, and because one perfumery would go bankrupt, I would say, no, but the country would buy it. I'd go to the market. It is similar in the financial market; perhaps slightly more complicated because financial markets may be a little more complex and may also have a greater impact than perfumeries. But with this – and such rules apply in advance in the European Union – the European Commission commits the country to doing something at a certain time. This was clear when we went to the European Union, and that was clear also when we recapitalised the bank by the State, and that was a commitment. That was the commitment of the state at the time, whatever the government was, it should have done so. But the European Commission said by 2017, it is said that the country had, in fact, all governments had three or four years to do so at the most favourable time. This could also be done in 2017 because a better moment was proved than later when it did so now, in 2018. Why? Because it has been legally stipulated that it must do so by the end of 2017 at the latest, that penalties will be paid later, and because if you do so later, customers will simply find that the price can be lower. Very simple. And, of course, they calculate then what the price of the bank is, what is the price of the shares of the financial institution, the financial advisors based on certain methods. One is a method of future returns, the other is a comparative method. And as has already been found on the Committee on Finance and as it is in the paper, and given this comparative method and the book value, then we can find that during that period certain banks received a much higher price than today, for example, in terms of book value, among others, comparatively considering 1.4 book values. Other banks were listed as well as the shares after which they are sold. And the price of the New Ljubljana Bank is the lowest in this comparative method, if not among the lowest. The Secretary of State has indicated these prices. Among the lowest. Financial advisers have set a price range because of all that the Mira Cerar government has actually done — it is said that it has missed the deadline, it is said that it has decided to dispose of dispersed ownership and so on — this price is as low as it has actually been determined. And in two days, in one day, of course, financial investors earned 10% of that price. Ten percent profit at a time. Because the government as a congregation, if you want, whether it was SDH of course or someone from the finance ministry and so on, the financial investors squeezed because they knew they had to do so, that if it didn't, there would be other measures! Seizure of ownership in other countries of the New Ljubljana Bank, prohibition of business, non-payment of profits. They were just holding them. They were simply pressed into a corner because the government, when it was late for sale, simply lost all possibilities, all arguments to negotiate anything else. One by one. One by one. That's why we have such a price and a manoeuvring today. A manco of those 4 billion given by taxpayers in the last 25 years, or if you want, every Slovenian is 2 000 euros. This has been “smart management” for only the last 25 years. I'm not going back to the year if you want, 1952, when the Economic Bank was established, and so on and so on, and how much of that money was then, just since 1993. A completely different question would be if a 100 % bank or a 100 % bank share were sold today. Then that would be the price for the entire four-bedroom apartment I mentioned earlier, not the pieces. And that is why we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party to determine the responsibility for the lower price, which is already, today, a smaller thesis due to the partial sale, due to the way in which it was sold, due to the delay, because of the decision not to sell the bank in 2017 – the decision of the government led by Dr. Miro Cerar, where he had finance ministers. This responsibility would not be determined by the Slovenian Democratic Party in accordance with this decision, which you have not adopted on the Committee, but by the competent professional institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, don't you care about identifying the mania of taxpayer money? Don't you want the taxpayers to get more from this address, from this purchase? However, when a new law prepared by the Ministry of Finance is on the agenda, let's say the real estate tax law, and then again the rate may be ten, twenty or one percentage point higher so that taxpayers will pay again what the Government or the state or the budget has not received from the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. Then you'll probably vote in favour. And against taxpayers paying more in that case. Because somewhere the country will have to cover it. We have a fiscal rule. And the country will say, see, manca must be the rate of property tax – I now mention this because it is expected to enter into force 2020 – so much and so much, and it will be higher because the purchase is lower. And the taxpayers will pay more. Is that fair? At the same time, it will neither be detected nor wanted to determine the responsibility for why this purchase is so low. Let us say: Is it even lower? I'll say it. But look, there are certain indications for this. I said a few of them here, my colleagues just said them. You don't want this investigated. So, of course, the responsibility goes to you now, and you bear it, including those who voted against the decision to investigate this matter, the decision we have drawn up by the proponents to investigate the matter, and who voted against the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Marko Koprivc, get Gregor Perič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u38	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I must admit that I have mixed feelings about this debate today. I certainly agree with the main point that the NLB sold was significantly overpriced. But that's not the only problem. I would add that the bank has opened 2 major pending cases that may have serious financial implications, i.e. the possible payment of alleged damaged Croatian savers – as you will recall, we transferred this expense to the country at one of the meetings – and the removal of subordinated deposit holders. I would like to remind you of my question raised at one of the previous meetings, whether it is possible for the NLB to be owned by the Croatian financial funds. As you probably know, that's what happened. Let me continue, there is still an unanswered question about the validity of the requirements and obligations for the sale of NLB in relation to the European Commission. By the way, once again, I am asking a public question: Was a legal assessment of the eligibility of the undertakings and sales requirements made? Last but not least, respectable and respected, this bank was full of the taxpayer's money that we invested in it at the time of recovery. At least until all open issues are resolved, the bank should definitely not sell. Let me add that in these days, before the decision is made, it is the sale of the Bank. It is a heartening news or announcement in one of today's media that the finance ministry should nevertheless consider calling on the European Commission or asking for a change in the sales commitment and that the majority share should still remain in state-owned Slovenian ownership. I hope we learned something from selling NLB. But, with respect and respect, I would point out another dimension of this debate. On the other hand, right-wing parties with neoliberal ideological backgrounds continue to explain publicly how we have to sell everything because everything sucks. We've heard that we should just spank the bank or sell it for 1 euro so there's no new hole. How does such a performance affect the value of State property? You know how to stop a bank hole? So that we are good masters, that we are careful and that we act in the interests of this country, its people and its economy. How, though, do those who scream that the state is a bad master, that everything needs to be sold out privatize everything, how do you contribute to the value of state property? How does your performance affect the price of the banks or other companies we sold? I ask you, is the good master shouting how his property is worthless? You know, for a country that manages its assets economically, the price for a system bank is always too low. However, if the purchases of state investments are earmarked for current consumption, the matter is really at odds with every logic. Where's he going? Where are the strategic interests of the country? With the exercise of neoliberal ideology, we are increasingly entrenched in the European periphery. Our largest companies buy Croatian funds, Ukrainian postal collectors from tax havens. This is this singing privatisation, respected colleagues and colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, we have our own country, let us begin to behave accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič has the following word to prepare Mr Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! It is no coincidence that the opposition gentlemen are trying to limit this debate to the period between December 2016 and November 2018, since in this case it is some sort of blurry manoeuvre, by which they want to cover important milestones in the history of NLB that have affected the developments during the period considered. A similar attempt to limit the debate also took place on the working body, namely on the Committee on Finance, where they tried to stifle the parliamentary debate between the president and the debaters. Something else happened. The proposaler of the extraordinary committee himself was not at all at the meeting, so we were all in writing watching what was going on, because if you want to hold an extraordinary meeting on some pressing issue, then at least what is expected is that you are present as a candidate at the meeting itself. When you're gone, you send some very serious signal that your intentions aren't serious, and in fact, we're almost joking, we're making fun of the subject, we're making jokes from the committee, we're also making jokes from the institution of the National Assembly. Let's do it in a row. As early as 2006, when good – or some better – some probably forgot a lot about the NLB event, but then the sale of NLB to the Belgian Bank of KBC took place, and in the current government of Mr Janez Janša the decision that the Belgian NCB in NLB should not acquire a controlling share also fell. At that time, in response to this political decision, the NCBs announced the departure from ownership to NLB by the Government of Janez Janša. So briefly about the price of the dispersed property or about the four - room apartment we had recently heard about. Let's move on. Dr. Jože P. Damian, former Minister of Government of Janez Janša, wrote on his blog on 2 June 2012, quote: “In the period 1990-2007, the country, on behalf of us taxpayers, invested a thousand EUR 560 million in the cost of rehabilitation and recapitalisation in the NLB.” That is 1.5 billion. Then I will skip a little bit, and Jože P. Damian continues: “The year 2007 was the year of the highest growth in the history of Slovenia, the economy was at its peak and NLB had credited more than ever. However, due to the rapid growth of credits in 2005-2007, NLB began to lack capital reserves. That's why she needed recapitalisation. In 2008, the state actually recapitalised it with EUR 300 million, at a price of EUR 334 per share. But she recapitalised it herself or together with other parastatal owners.” The realised sales value of NLB at the time of sale this year was – today we have heard several times – 51.5 euros and the value of the share at the recapitalisation in 2008 was 334 euros. If we compare, this comparison means a six-and-a-half-time higher amount. If the first NLB government had sold NLB in 2008, they could have made a six-and-a-half purchase. If we had taken this decision before 2008, before the bank went into that well-known whirlpool of credit expansion, it would probably have been even higher. When we talk about this difference – so for people's sake – today's external debt of Slovenia is at a low level of 32 billion, this amount, we're talking only about the difference, and it would be 5 billion. This would mean 16.6% in reducing our external debt. If this sale were to be done then, we have heard several times today by the various representatives of the applicants, it was not either true political will or at the end of the stage of courage, not only some political consensus, but today or in all those years that followed, it would be avoided by a number of agonys, which were also conditioned by the arrival of the economic crisis, as well as three additional recapitalisations by 2013. Remember, 2011 we poured NLB with 250 million, a year later with 338 million, and in 2013 we gave it 1 billion 510 million, a total of good 2.3 billion euros. This is precisely what triggered the red alarm in Brussels. Not only is the NLB business situation in the Balkans, which the public has been informed of in particular in the context of Dr Logar's investigative commission, but in particular the devastating practice of corporate governance of the bank, or, if we say very simply and humanly, the tightening of long-term bank policies and the impact on credit decision-making. The bank needed constant recapitalisation because it was a chronic patient. Before this credit crisis, virtually no one could defend themselves, the entire political space fell under the influence, both on the left and on the right. Remember, Zvon 1 Holding, Zvon 2 Holding, Assets, SCT, Primorje, Vegrad, Pivovarna Laško, Mercator, Mercury and many others. Since antibodies of reason have been canceled during this credit crisis, the price paid by taxpayers and taxpayers in Slovenia at the final stage is dizzy. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its opinion – because we are considering a recommendation today – has simplified the content of the recommendation of colleagues from the SNS, NSI and SDS both from a substantive and procedural point of view. Of course, this cannot be understood in the way that the opposition's colleagues do not understand or know the Slovenian legal order and cannot draw up any reasonable recommendation, because when it is drawn up, we also support it in the coalition as in the case of the European Union's funds being drawn up. No, we need to understand everything, interpret it slightly differently – that the purpose of this is no longer to know which extraordinary session is just extraordinary politicisation and extremely unilateral painting of facts. Today, it is crucial when we talk about NLB, in particular something – that the privatisation process is concluded within agreed deadlines, that the state withdraws to the level of the control share, that NLB operates well, exemplaryly and responsibly, that owners receive as much dividends as possible, that the value of the stock on the Ljubljana and London stock exchanges is as high as possible, that investors recognize the interest of investment in NLB and that NLB remains an international regional banking group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Boštjan Koražija and will prepare for Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! If history is a teacher of life, then we are Slovenians, even decision makers, our decision makers, Slovenians, very poor students in recent years. In these few years we have two very similar stories, the sale of the New Loan Bank Maribor and the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, but we have not learned anything from the sale of the first, Maribor Bank, NKBM, and even less in the process of selling or not selling NLB. If I borrow the words of the Bible, I will quote: “At the price you sold your people and did not earn anything.” In 2013, the country invested EUR 850 million in NKBM, and in 2013 it purchased banks with a bad claim of EUR 972 million. New owners paid 250 million for NKBM and paid 16.7 million dividends only three months after their acquisition in 2016. In 2017, owners paid EUR 30.2 million in dividends and this year they paid as much as EUR 45.8 million in dividends. In total, only from dividends in three years is €92.7 million, representing a good 37% ransom. You've already highlighted NLB data. In view of the fact that both banks were built and established by the stings of the Slovenian nation, it is unacceptable and shameful that we are now selling this hard-earned property at all costs and at the expense of the people. It is a shame for a nation that you take away or sell what it has fought for for years, years, years, years, years, years, years, years, years. Of course, it is no less shameful that we had operators who were only concerned about their personal benefit, not the tasks for which they were appointed or appointed, so strict verification by all creditors. That they have been properly trained, we know that they have strictly applied insurance and verification provisions for the loans of natural persons and have abandoned the mandatory practice of large and resounding names. The profits of our sold banks will now run into the deep pockets of foreigners. Regrettably, those who have at least had to bear the burden and pay for mistakes, whether intentional or unintentional, of those who have much. If the same people in the bank can only make a solid profit by replacing the owner of the loss, what does that say about our country as owners? The situation is now as it is. I will also now borrow the conclusion from Mr Vrtovec's speech: I ask you whether we have learned something now and whether we will do something differently in the future. Finally, I will take advantage of the opportunity I have here today to make a positive conclusion to this speech, so that it will not only be a negative connotation. I am proud to inform you that the Municipality of Ptuj has received for the first time in history the mayor, Nuška Gajšek, who was also an associate in Parliament or the National Assembly. And I'm just gonna say, Mayor Nuška Gajšek's mother, honest congratulations! That's it. Well, hello to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u43	Thank you, Member. Mr. Franz Breznik continues to prepare Janja Služa.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. If I follow the practice of my colleague Koražija, I would now like to congratulate all the mayors of the SDS for a half hour and then bring this story somewhere completely different from the essence. Nevertheless, I think the darkness is so sad, so disturbing that it would still be good to come back from the local elections to the story of this unfortunate, I would call it, the state's old iron, not the state's silver, which is supposed to be the base system bank in the Republic of Slovenia. I don't want to repeat because I am a person who doesn't like to repeat what my colleagues are already principles, the chronology of NLB events, the recapitalisation when the Ljubljana Bank went to the New Ljubljana Bank in 1994, when we had to recapitalise it massively, and then that sad period. Of course, I have to react to some of the discussions of colleagues from the coalition – the sale of 22% of NLB to KBC in 2006/2007 and why the first Janševa government did not sell the New Ljubljana Bank. Very easy, see, in the independent country of Slovenia there has never been a right government, let's be realistic. We had a government of 2006/2007 along with Desus and the Slovenian People's Party. Regrettably, the People’s Party had at that time, with respect for colleagues, mostly the strange structure of people who were against the sale, which led to the fall of the government of Janez Janša. If it were up to us, we would be happy to sell this Ljubljana Bank to me, just as we intended. Unfortunately, the electoral system in Slovenia does not allow, we can say, some serious governments, which are made up of as few coalition partners as possible and which, in my opinion, are operationally able to implement those policies that a major party has, we can say, announce or present during pre-election promises. What happened? You know, the NCBs, in the end, gave the country one euro for the KBC, that was 2 million 700, roughly, and as a non-strategic investment, the NCBs left Slovenia with a bitter taste. I could have told you a lot – I talked to several representatives a few years ago, I think in 2013, 2014, when Alenka Bratušek threw herself into the rescue of Slovenia with a so-called home threesome. What I'd like to say right now is that contribution I made to the whole NLB story. I would add to my colleagues who have been preparing this, and I must admit, we still have something to say about Alenka Bratušek, someone who says he is a financier, a textile engineer, and who was solving a Slovenian bank hole with a so-called domestic threesome. Just look at the first overcapitalisation, the subordinates who were literally destroyed in the so-called phase of her rescue of NLB. In particular, I would like to point out once again: if the so-called second Janša government continued to rule in Slovenia after 2013, we would be in a European stability mechanism, the money we would then borrow would probably be at least 4 percentage points lower, you can imagine at 2 billion, about how much this is for NLB alone. So instead of borrowing 5.5%, we would borrow 1.5%. In this way, for example, Ireland also went to this programme and the other Member States, which themselves had some of these problems. If you borrow money for, say, one house, 100,000 euros, you're damn sure wondering if the interest rate is only 0.1% lower or per cent lower. This is already a big difference if you take a loan or a long-term loan with a maturity of more than 10 years or 20 years. The first additional damage in addition to all the amounts you have listed today, the damage caused by a large troika of these so-called left-wing politicians, is, therefore, also Alenka Bratušek, with her bank resolution, where we overpaid the interest and recapitalisation. So we didn't get anything from Europe. That's what you have to say. We did not go into the European Stability Mechanism, but we have recapitalised the NLB, and of course we have been, I can say, under the watchful eye of the European Commission, especially in the last period of Commissioner Margareta Vestager, who has actually communicated and communicated what will happen. Since 2013 or most recently, 2017/2018, the European Commission has clearly given its tasks. Above all, under Commissioner for Competitiveness Margareta Vestager, who actually said that there is no need to sell the bank. The bank must also be sold at a time when last year's government, as colleagues have already said today, decided at the assembly that the banks will not yet sell, that big problems with Croatian savers are, that this is a big risk and that the price of shares is between €55 and €71 and that this is a small purchase. Three, four Slovenian politicians, we can say, have shown their great, intelligent knowledge. They went to some stock pushers that found out what was the right price of shares. I think that in 2017 NLB was ready for sale, and also those who offered such prices were willing to take the risk. Today, neither does this risk, which can be estimated at some 100 million, can be evaluated — then it would be counted as a market share price. And even if you look at the program that we've prepared, so in the fabric, you have on page 3 the movement of the index of European banking shares and you can see some summit that was happening at the end of last year, some tip. In December 2017, this peak was, and then, look, things are starting to fall heavily and you can see here this opportunistic loss that these political decisions have put into effect. That's why it's my addition. In this expensive recapitalisation, the European Union has given us nothing, we have borrowed money in strange markets, I could say, sometimes hidden behind some investors we don't actually know. Here, too, it was suspected that sometimes this money, which had been stolen from Slovenia, was somehow returned, and they lent it to us once again, stolen money, over major bank interest and so on. The losses in NLB are several times greater than those that we presented in this paper today. But the last part of my debate must go into one purely logical decision. Why was the decision so bad in that concluding act? Because the European Commission warned us. It stated that, after spring 2017, the State had to prepare so-called compensatory measures and that it would also require that they postpone the sale. And what happened? Everyone who is an investor – for example, you are selling your house because you owe something because you will be robbed, and you say, because I have time, two years is time, I distance, I will be waiting as an investor for these mistakes. And when the period came, the whole world knew that Slovenia had to sell NLB so that it could follow the European Commission's penalties. According to a number of experts, this penalty is more than 2 billion in recapitalisation. In 2013, it could amount to up to EUR 400 million, perhaps up to half a billion would be the European Commission's punishment. As an investor, you're just waiting. The overcapitalized bank because of Alenka Bratušek and her team, which has never taken over the so-called political responsibility, and then three, I would call it three colleagues who have no idea of finances, of international markets that have never worked in this system and then, look, investors who have thus crossed hands [[shows with gesture]] , turned on the stopwatches last spring and waited: “Aha, what they are putting off is putting off ” [[…]] This decision could be me – if it were a counter argument, I would say, yes, there is now another government. But look, we have a recycled government, the same policies back in the next government. So they sort of pulled you like a red thread, and we can quickly identify them, along with the Secretary of State, who today represents it. And then they got caught about like Ivan Kunović, a pilot of an unfortunate DC-9 plane in Corsica, literally in a wedge. Literally into the wedge. Where the deadline was already, we can say, leaked where all the alarms were ringing, all the systems were ringing, and then the investors were just waiting. They know that force, because of such powers as we have listed today, Mr. Cerar, Mr. Jew and Mr. Erjavac, is completely incompetent, they are only somehow with their hands crossed. [[shows with gesture]] , though uncultured, waiting for this moment. And the moment has happened. The stock price went up. They did damage along with Alenka Bratusek, which I believe is even greater than the one we wrote down. The story is very short, very simple, very clear. We're here today to take on the political responsibility they've been talking about so many times. They should immediately step down with the Secretary of State and be judged, because this money – let me try it again – we will have to take it from the budget again, we will have to take it from the pensioners, we will have to take it from the young people, we will take it through spending to all those who are taking it on vacation, taking it to all the other people who are going to live worse on that account. We take it to entrepreneurs who, due to higher taxes, will not be able to buy better machines, larger robots, to digitize what we're talking about, and so on. Here's the secret to everything else. And they keep going. They caused approximately the same damage to Slovenian Telekom. There's a lot of lawsuits there, too, if we sold it a few years ago, it wouldn't have happened. Remember Webber what he did with Telekom. Today, Telekom is a worthless company. With many new affairs, if you remember – what they follow. NLB, look, a new affair. Remember NLB Montenegro. What happened to NLB Montenegro? Look at Mr. Butcher. Montenegrins could not believe that such thievery existed and that there was corruption in NLB. I also know many cases of NLB Montenegro, including these affiliates. To conclude, it is an old Udbov bank, which has been set up as well, and with approximately the same frame of reference, with somewhat rejuvenated matters, they take their story forward. And through, as Pogačnik said, scattered ownership – this is a very good story, this is my conclusion – these people who were guilty will not be able to come because the new owners are so dispersed that they will not be able to consolidate themselves, through the supervisory board they will not be able to influence the leadership itself and things will continue for years and years before they can clean up and inspect the complete NLB system. Not only in Ljubljana, but through every business in the Balkans. And for that time things will be over, after ten years everything will be obsolete, and those who have done billions of damage to Slovenian taxpayers will never come before the time of justice. And this is an NLB epilogue towards the end, a respected colleague and colleague. Now turn to yourself, give me a counter argument, say, Franz Breznik is extremely wrong. Because you don't have one. I'll stand here and replicate to you all and prove to you that you're wrong. In the end, you can see my performance on RTV Slovenia, I think that was on November 2, 2017, what I said at the time about the so-called European Commissioner's discharges for competitiveness, which she had never given exactly in similar recapitalisations of other banks in other countries that had about the same fate. So look, this is where we think this session is important. It is important because the caravan can no longer go on, we will all bark, we will bark even stronger, and the caravan will once have to stop and take responsibility, and this responsibility must be on Mr Dejan Židan, Mr Karl Erjavac and Mr Mir Cerar. I hope that they will take political responsibility and somehow withdraw, and at least here they show, we can say, part of their humanity to the fate of this nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The next has the word of Janja the Servant, but Jani Ivanusha should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much. If the purpose of today's session was actually to stop the caravan, this meeting would not be because, as the Law-Legal Service has already said, the proposaler actually served purely other levers and would achieve purely different goals than he really wants to achieve today with this show in front of the cameras and with this theater. What has also been exposed by the Legislative and Legal Service, the opposition may at any time, without a coalition, propose an audit to the Court of Auditors. This is even said by the Court of Auditors Act in its Article 25 in the second paragraph, where it states that the Court of Auditors must take into account at least five proposals from the National Assembly each year and at least two proposals from opposition Members. So you really don't need this session today. You don't even need the coalition's consent to react to the things you claim. But if we listen to those discussions from the Committee on Finance today, of course, after the battle we are all generals, by not really a battle, but a war that has lasted a long time, regardless of whether you are restricting the debate in your proposal or just wanting to limit it to the last battle. Of course, politics estimates that the price we have paid for our largest bank is too low, and we can all agree on that. Everybody. I don't think there's one here today that would say that this price is high enough to achieve enough and so on. But why is that price? That's not the price for what's been going on in the last year. That's not even the price for what happened in the last term. The price has been that way since – we know when. If politics agrees that the price is too low, and when we listen and read what experts say, it is not quite so. Dr. Sasha Polanec said in an interview with a right medium that I will not name him: “It’s not so obvious that it’s too low a price. NLB probably did not get the best results on some macro-stress tests, and of course investors knew that. A good 10 years ago, it was not so obvious that Internet banks would take on the role of classical banks, and then the price for NLB would probably be at least twice as high as it was now." And when they ask him if NLB should have sold at the time of Janša’s first government, Dr. Polanec says: “Sure. Absolutely." He even uses that term. Today it has already been mentioned several times what problems you had during the first Janša government with disagreements within the government between the two ministers and how you then denied that the Minister for Development should have given up precisely because the spears had broken down on the sale of NLB. He now wrote this on his own blog to make it clear what he had given up and what he was defending at the time. And yes, a mistake was made by that time. Let's talk about all this time! Why do we limit ourselves to the last battle now? Let's talk, let's tell ourselves what was going on at the time, let's also tell ourselves what the price would be if the bank were sold then before all these things happened inside the bank and before we put these huge billions into this bank. Let's say that again. Such a discussion with the actual show only for the cameras is basically a sermon about you. About yourself. I think your past actions have shown you very well what standards you set for the sale of state property. Did you place them transparent? Have you set them up legally, fairly, justly, for the benefit of the state and for the benefit of the citizens? I don't think so. Let us go back to 2005, when you are already discussing some political responsibility and how state property is being sold. At that time, there was one meeting that changed Slovenia, as reported in the media. It was a hot summer Friday, 2005. A little after 3:00 p.m., the first man, Istrabenza Igor Bavčar, Director-General of Pivovarna Laško Boško Šrot and Andrijana Starina Kosem, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, who was the key operative of the government's human resources campaign, Janez Janša, followed by state companies. One hour later, KD Group President Matjaž Gantar entered the same door. Topic of the meeting: Mercator sale. Behind closed doors, transparent. The agreement concluded that day had fatal consequences at a later event in Slovenia. Like what? Impact on work, the state buy-in of minority KD Group shares in energy, the replacement of long-standing Prime Minister Mercator and so on. What else did he mean? He mentioned the final birth of tycoonization, the process that Janša, after being prepared for it by the time of the LDS, helped accelerate, but then lost control of it, tried unsuccessfully to turn back time. Bavčar and Shrott, together with Mercator, also received leverage for their continued privatisation campaigns. After this meeting, cards began to mix on the political scene. In 2005, Janša took over all the sovereigns in the country, and the collapse of the LDS gave him the impression that at least two mandates were in place at the head of the government. But with Mercator's sale, of course, here he writes, he shot himself in the knee — because of Yankovic, he knows. And then this case happened, the sale was made, and there was also an audit, yes, at the request of the opposition. As I suggest to you today that you make this request and that you do the audit or that it be done by the Court of Auditors. It was then made and reviewed the sale of Mercator's state shares. And what did it find? Kind of an irregularity. Among other things, they stated that no analysis had been carried out of the effects of individual contractual arrangements; the external valuation of Mercator’s shares was old since it was prepared at the end of 2003, sales at the market price were inadequate and so on not reading everything. The Court’s Supervisory Committee, where someone sitting with us today, assessed the conformity of the sales process with the Court’s internal acts without having adequate and sufficient grounds for assessment. The Management Board of the Court gave its consent to the sale of shares on the basis of incomplete information. This was also found. At that time, the opposition that demanded it probably calculated, in accordance with a known method, as discussed by a colleague of Shircel, which you have also now used, that this is a damage of EUR 121 million. This was then called 29 billion Slovenian tolars. 121 million euros. I think it's a pretty similar method to what you're using for these calculations here today. I am glad that NLB did not adhere to these standards that you set, that the sale was made transparently, that the documents were on the table, that it knew what we were talking about. And that, yes, colleagues, is a school case in 2005, how the sale of state property is not carried out. I would say, however, that I would like my colleague Vrtovec, who was quite loud today, to protest in that part of the government he was part of, and to protest even after that audit. In fact, I've never heard you say that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Logar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u48	Thank you. I don't know, it was probably an article from Youth or some similar media source that we just listened to. If I understood Mrs Slug correctly, she said that, in Mercator's case, there was a damage of EUR 21 million and that she was glad that this time it was different, that the NLB did otherwise, that the damage was only – I don't know if it was just – EUR 400 million. Did I get it right? In view of the fact that the sale of the New Bank of Ljubljana has been proven by the statements of persons selling NLB, i.e. foreign participants, was damaged by the unfair timing of 20% of the value and the way in which you sell NLB, a 25% discount due to the IPO or the dispersed sale. And these are two political decisions made by the government of Mir Cerar, however you take it, if you read so badly. And I don't know what Mercator has to do with the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, but I'm just telling you, Lady Servant, that you have old data and that you are basically misleading the public. The Mercator sale case was here in the National Assembly, an investigative commission that did not find the infringement, if I am not mistaken, in the conclusions that were then proposed to the National Assembly, and you will not believe it, you will not believe that Zoran Janković, who always wins in court, sued Mercator twice that it was an injury – what you are now referring to – and you will not believe that he lost both. He lost both times in court. Both times he was rejected because he was rejected, nothing is said about it. But if you tell me what the damage was, by a court order, I can tell you that there was no court decision on the matter. Twice, the court ruled, last time, I think, in 2017, because Mr Jankovic defiantly resisted and prolonged and sued every time, and I think, even as a private one, he was burned before a court every time. So your word or your source from that newspaper goes to the court’s decision — let me believe the court in this case. In view of your implementation also in the previous [[…]] I agree that the damage to NLB was not caused only by the decisions made during the previous government, that is, during the time of the Government of Mir Cerar. I agree. We found this at the end of the investigation committee to identify abuses in the banking system. If you're making this an argument here, I just don't know how you voted for this report if you haven't read it or how? We've already poured ourselves some pure wine, and we don't need to stress that again. There's nothing wrong with the one who suggested it. However, the method of selling and timing of sales has been proven to give us an additional EUR 400 million to taxpayers. You can't go beyond that responsibility! It is interesting, however, that in reading these two unwise political decisions, you are also sided with those parties who have nothing to do with it, which is unusual. I must say this that you are able very much to convince them that they have also grabbed the bag and held with you and are in fact now responsible for this damage to taxpayers. But beyond the guilt of Mira Cerar, Dejan jeedan and Karl Erjavac, we cannot go. It doesn't work if you're turning around like that. By your political decision you have done so, sooner or later this will prove to be true at the end of the day, however. However, it is important that the public knows three names that are key and the main responsibility for the damage so far, in addition to what we have already thrown into this bank for the purpose of recapitalisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u49	Thank you. Reploco has Mrs. Janja Sluga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u50	Thank you. Perhaps, however, the coalition parties agree with us that the government of John Janša is to blame, but they may therefore be behind it. And don't take my word for it, because I wasn't talking about the damage, I was talking about the findings of the Court of Auditors and all the mistakes that the Court of Auditors has found in the audit on Mercator's sale. And when you talk about rejecting the court's decision, it was a private action that was rejected, it is said that the court did not rule on it at all. When there will be an audit for this procedure when you request it – and I hope you will – and when the facts are known, then we can talk about some of the damage that you have just calculated. The difference is that Mercator was selling under the table, not at the NLB, but it was consistent with the law of the market at that time. But why that moment came, and you know so much better than I do.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Logar, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u52	President, because I think you could explain the difference between being rejected and being rejected, so the colleague won't talk nonsense. I believe that's what I believe you all agree that it's John Janša's fault. And I believe that you agree that it is not only for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, that it is probably also responsible for the warm autumn weather, that it is for global warming. I believe that's what brings you together. This brings you together to come together, despite 400 million damages. But the thing is, it's not right. That's the problem. That on the basis of the evident evidence that I do not know, on the basis of the opinion of international audit houses, on the basis of the opinion of those who have made the sale, you still see the guilt in Janez Janša. That's the problem. The Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance sat at that SDH meeting, where I sat alone, where sales were discussed, about the one that made 400 million holes for us taxpayers. And they know everything I'm explaining. They probably didn't tell you, so you defend yourself so franticly and you see the culprit elsewhere. But the guilt is clear, as I said, in timing and in sales. Because Mr Dragonja wants to maintain the leverage of the decision-making process in the New Ljubljana Bank, that is whether taxpayers cost 400 million or not. For you, it doesn't matter. The blame of past governments for lowering the price of NLB was very well worked out and without a vote against we accepted in the investigation committee to identify abuses in the banking system. There we have processed this part and also taxed the personal and non-personal responsibility of individual governments, and in this part we find the responsibility of those three men who decided to sell NLB to foreign owners based on this decision. Here the guilt is necessarily proven, only the problem is that in this national assembly we obviously do not know how to pour pure wine, and you still decide on the basis of these political preferences and you do not see any arguments. Sooner or later, these arguments will come out, even if there is some other investigative committee to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Jani Ivanuša has the floor now, and Mrs Violeta Tomić is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u54	Nice greeting, Madam President! Mr. Secretary of State, all present! I also have to respond to these last replicas now, because in this paper, what Mrs Janja discussed, there is no connection with Mercator so far, so it would be good to stick to what we're here for today, if we don't just share everything by midnight, what happened 15 years ago. In general, today we have a meeting and a debate to at least partially try to come to an assessment of who is to blame, that this bank was not sold in December 2016, 2017, and, of course, sold before a month or November 2018. The bookkeeping evaluation said that the bank was worth about a billion 400, a bookkeeping estimate. Also at the extraordinary session that we had in the autumn, it was said that if we received the book value with the profit that would be included in that price, we would be at that price. But we have now found that we have reached 670 million purchases. In 2015, this has already been heard today, this strategy has been adopted by this state ownership management and then also by dispersed ownership, which leaves as much dilemma in the assessment as it would then be the price, or if it were not for dispersed ownership or if it were any other form of ownership. We've heard a lot about numbers today. It was interesting on the Committee on Finance, Mr Horvat, he had a huge position, I don't know, I think it was really big because it was – it seemed interesting to me, but today he's talking about 41 million euros, and some estimates say we're up to 400 or up to 460 million. These differences. And there was a good description of who the mercenary is, these are Slovenian taxpayers. We would like to assess today whether, instead of these names or Slovenian mercenaries, taxpayers might give someone else up. That's the point of this column, or maybe someone else will write it instead. In the Slovenian National Party, we have always opposed the sale of this beloved Systemic Nova Ljubljanska Banka. Privatization is harmful and forced. Here I have to agree with Levica – it is unbelievable that we agree that we are at the same point of thinking, and this is very commendable – that this is where we were for this system bank to remain in state ownership. The bank, how many times has it been rehabilitated, last of all with a billion euros, been cleared, poor claims went to DUMB – and what has now come to light? Now this bank is starting to behave. The fuses work, says Banka Slovenije, and each year there are profits or more than 200 million. If we put this on a ten-year deadline now, it would be about 2 billion dollars and some profits that we could then cover back, which was being remedied. Ten years from now, the bank is at zero, and it's still state-owned, Slovenian. This could stay, but unfortunately it's not, we've made some commitments or we've heard who. Unfortunately, this commitment has dragged on, and here is the difference, and here we are looking for responsibility. That's all we're talking about today. 2016, 2017, 2018, all that has been said before is already, I could say to this, ballast. I only agree with Mr Möderndorfer when he mentions that this Slovenian bank, NLB, was not oriented towards the economy, and that was the SID bank. That's right. Let's also remember this Logar investigative commission. That's a great thing. We've come up with the names of who they were giving, who they were taking, unfortunately, they're not epilogues yet. It is interesting, however, that this disease of ours that is emerging, this modern disease or modern disease, the dementia, has come to the fore on this investigative committee. Everyone forgot who came to visit as invited, they don't remember anything. I don't know, these are obviously big signs of this disease, Dementia. Mr Marko Kranjec, the so-called then Governor of Banka Slovenije, the chief security guard in the credit balloon, is obviously the sickest. I'm sorry. I can also mention money laundering, a billion washed through the New Ljubljana Bank, and today they ask the man who comes with 500 euros, where he has 500 euros. And you have to pay the commission today. That's what they're asking you at the bank today. However, when the billions of euros were washed away, there was obviously no question. And the question of whether any responsibility will be accepted. We still have Abank, which is also state-owned. I hope this story doesn't happen again with her. In the past, we had the Maribor Credit Bank, 800 million of which we saved, and we sold it for 250 million. Here you have to ask yourself who's crazy here. There is no other question to be raised here. We sell everything from the courtyards of Slovenia, from the country of Slovenia. Banks, companies, companies, I don't know what else is left. Where does that lead? Shall we be slaves on our land? For the damage done in this case, I'd like someone to answer. Otherwise, today it's just a debate, there can be no conclusions, I don't know if it's going to be an accusation that there's going to be such an epilogue at all, because this is where the story will end. This is where you should replicate Mr. Han. He said we were blurring the story back, talking about some fog, I don't know, and he's talking about a decade ago. It's a matter of responsibility, and he wants to take the matter down for time-table over 10 years ago, and here I can't tell him that it's even normal for him to advertise like that. Mr Möderndorfer said this was a political account. I don't know. That we're being unprofessional. As far as I know, he was unprofessional 14 days ago, when we broke up the meeting for two hours, we didn't even know why. I mean, we know why, but if I was professional, at least one of these excuses or he, I'd say, I'm sorry, I just had my bad day and so on. I don't think anyone's ever apologized in this case. Two hours. We know the cost of two hours of the National Assembly, and from personal income, we will see if he will ever enjoy what he is. Mr Koprivc says that we should go to the country, he obviously does not know that his client has been ruling for so many years, so many mandates, so that Mr Perič has shown us politicisation. [[…]] If there are some 100 million minus politicisation for him, it is sad that he is running the Committee on the Economy. That's it. I think I'm running out of time now, so thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. And I'm just going to lean on my predecessor, Mr. Ivanusz. Wait a minute, don't leave right now. You said, "It's amazing, we even agree with Levica here." Yes, your head Member Victory Noblemen here at the speaker stage actually quoted the words that Levic repeats all the time, quoted even our program, but interestingly, you call a meeting with SDS, which speaks in a diametrically opposite of you. In fact, you're talking, we're not even for sale by Slovenian banks and companies, while they're for privatisation. Here you need to know that he is not always your opponent's opponent but your friend. You have to make a little distinction, too. But unfortunately the Noble One isn't here, and there's nothing to remind him of. Now that I'm listening to my colleague Logar, it's like – we're a little older than we used to watch cartoons sometimes – Kalimera, you'll nod, older heads, wiser, young people don't remember. You know, it was such a little chicken with a white hat on its head that was walking around, all the time his guilt was happening and he was saying, "This is guilt, this is guilt, but wait till I grow up, you'll see, you'll get back." And in this style, we keep listening. Right now we're having a meeting with a thief, and the SDS wants to point at others with a finger. We've been selling NLB for 20 years, and we need to listen to how incompetent we are because there are outflows and thefts and thefts and how bad the country is the master. Who's the state? We're the state. And instead of stopping the looters, we'd rather sell everything and lose everything. Aja, so if we're servants on our land, then we're safe, because if we have anything, we'll have a bad mastery. You know, it's a servant's mentality. But what's interesting is that for 20 years public opinion has been loosening the very political elites whose pals have made the biggest bank hole. Let me just remind you that one of the biggest bank holes has been dug by a variety of church holding companies. They have created as many as €560 million of a bank hole. And when a colleague from New Slovenia, Mr. Horvat, here, oh, so empathizes with these 270 thousand poor who live below the poverty threshold, for which, by the way, Levica, who is the only party to Christian values in this House, always takes over, because whenever we propose anything – where are you? On the side of capital and exploiters. Always! When we say raise our wages, you're on the side of capital and exploiters. When we say, feed the hungry children, you're on the side of capital and exploiters. Now don't point your finger at Levica, please. Because now what we're holding the bag all of a sudden. Let me remind you how we do not hold the bag on 8 November 2018. This is before we sold the bank, we called for a meeting of the Finance Committee, and under the first point, Levi asked for the cessation of forced privatisation of the NLB and the Bank. I will not repeat how much we have invested in getting this bank back in 10 years, as the SNS has already identified several times. No, we'd rather sell it. And here we face the great developmental handicap of the country. If we imitate the Germans, they have three-quarters of the banks of the country or of the cooperatives. And this is not something that would be a relic of socialism, as we would like to continue to be thrown away, but it is simply wise management. The sale of NLB, as we pointed out at that meeting, was forced on the basis of the misuse of European Union law. I am very sad that we do not have experts in Slovenia who are responsible for negotiating with the European Commission, but we are just nodding and, on the basis of some estimates from another time, we are fulfilling this commitment. Yes, the sale is non-economic, we have saved it with public money and we should know that it was not State aid in NLB, because in 2013 the bank was 100% state-owned and recapitalised as owner, it was not recapitalised by the State. Here we have also highlighted the problem of Portugal, because negotiations with the European Commission have been held for several months and have managed to keep their CGD bank in state ownership. On the basis of this experience, we could also call on the European Commission to revise this and to immediately stop this harmful sale, but not. Of course, those who deliberately inflated our financial distress and called the troika could also accept responsibility. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Some of the following panellists [[…]] Mr. Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u58	Thank you. In 2013, when the balance sheet was inflated, only so much was the government of Alenka Bratušek. I believe you could find responsibility in that government as well. Now I only have one dilemma. Indeed, there are different starting points, but in the end both in Levica and in some other parties we find that the bank was oversold. Now you explain it to me because I really can't understand it. Why, then, does Levi not support the determination of responsibility, why was it oversold? Why not? No matter what your starting point is, either the bank needs to be sold or the bank can't be sold. If it was oversold because of the political decisions of a government, why do you not want to determine this political responsibility? Just explain it to me. Is it because you're a super-coal partner or because you don't want to burden your coalition partners? Or is it just because for some rights, I don't know, you're fighting with a fig in your pocket, or are you strong in words, or are you weak in action? That's all it is. Because if we find that the bank was oversold, if here, in the National Assembly, we can do something about it, but we don't, yes, we're just as responsible as those who did something. It's in the Penal Code that if you find out about negligence or a crime, you don't report it, you're a co-conspirator. That's all. This was the only reason for calling this meeting and this was the only basis for this proposal for a decision. In fact, my only pain is that this decision is not going forward, so that responsible institutions can identify it, not in the National Assembly, but in the responsible institutions. This is a purely normal logic of parliamentaryism, and I think it is the responsibility of all those elected by the electorates and voters who are ultimately financed by taxpayers to do everything they can to ensure that the taxpayer's money is spent economically. In the NLB case, I don't understand why we're not united in finding out who and why they were spending that money. That's all. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u59	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to replicate the esteemed colleague Violeta, who poisons the Slovenian public and New Slovenia - gives Christian Democrats the label that we are a church party and that we have something with Zvonov. Look, this is a poison coming from the Left very often. But more often, we have to respond because we are adherents to the truth. Those who are at least a tiny functional literate know what church institutions are, what are, after all, economic societies established by this or that diocese and so on. New Slovenia was founded by its members, is a political party registered under the Political Parties Act and has nothing to do with Zvonov. However, if anything has happened in these companies and even hundreds of others, we are the first to reach the time limit. What kind of gentleman is already sitting, as far as I know, from this area that is so close to you and at heart, Mrs Violet. Once again, I hope that the conclusions adopted by the National Assembly will also be implemented when the Logar investigative commission's report has been examined. But, dear colleague, that's not gonna happen. Why not? Why not? You will find the answer if you answer the question of who is running the justice department today. He won't. Much has been done by the parliamentary commission of inquiry, including your colleague Hanžk, the names are known, the parliamentarians have been identified as responsible, but these bankers will continue to be able to fill their pockets in the field of energy, or they may continue to fill their pockets in the field of energy. I ask so kindly that, as far as the Christian values that we defend are concerned, we have them written down in the basic programme, and I invite you to write these Christian values, human values, into your program. Leave us here. Please don't encourage any unnecessary tension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u62	First of all, I don't poison the space, you haven't heard my debate and you've gone wild inside, you're talking in mind. You have Christian values written down in the program, we don't need them written down because we're following them. And we're never [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, I never said they were church clients!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u63	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u64	I never said you were a church client. That's a lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u65	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u66	But I said [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u67	Please. Please. Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u68	No, no, no. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u69	You will have the opportunity to re-apply to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u70	He used incorrect data and this is my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u71	Please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u72	Excuse me, you're stopping me. [[advertising from the hall]] No, you've got me all wrong, Comrade Horvat. Look at the magnetogram, and then you can answer it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u73	Mrs. Violet, this is not a replica and you don't have it. Thank you very much. Let's keep going. Many of the debaters who have been reported do not see in the hall, so now he has the word Alenka Jeraj, to prepare the Black Bell. Here you go, Mrs. Alenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u74	Procedural. President, I've been announced by Mrs. Violeta. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u75	How?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u76	You told me to prepare myself for Mrs Violet Tomić's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u77	I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. Here you go, Mr. Rajic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u78	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone! This debate will not refer to who belongs to any church or sect, but rather to the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not recognize the responsibility of the former government. It is therefore an instrument for determining the responsibility of the current government and it is carried out through a confidential or non-trust or interpretation. And I understand this initiative, or this proposal, as a single pain, that the success of the government, which has just completed its mandate, is still somehow visible, that it cannot be forgotten and that must be done in this way. Of course, this is how you try to influence people to think in black after they leave. But you probably all agree that a key error was made and that it happened when the commitment was made and made that a greater proportion of the New Ljubljana Bank, which is owned by the state, would have to be sold, and this happened in 2013, when, if you like, Mr Cerar was teaching at the Faculty of Law and he probably had no idea that he would start running the government next year. This is how I do not understand these attempts to determine the responsibility of this government – and this government is no longer because it has completed its mandate – and its results remain visible. I also understand that a fog has to be dropped, and all the cannons have to be hit, but I don't know what the ransom and the result of all this is going to be. The Government of Mir Cerar also, if you remember, rejected the proposed minimum price for the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank in June 2017 and stopped the sale and stopped the sale in order to try to obtain a better purchase for this bank in some other period, so that taxpayers would get more money back. Therefore, no one, nor the Government of Mira Cerar, could predict what the situation on the capital market would be for months, almost a year later, so I think that, if we think about it, we should agree that it has acted carefully, that it has treated Slovenia with protection and that it has acted primarily on a market-oriented basis. This injury, which is determined, is not sufficiently substantiated because it is not possible to establish with certainty what price they would have achieved in this sales process. As it is known, there was a very high risk of transferred foreign exchange deposits in Croatia last year, and if you imagine an even case of a desperate seller, you know very well that someone who has to sell something that is extremely tight and that the buyer is almost blackmailing him. As a result of this speculation with sales in 2017 and with 160 million, it can by no means be portrayed as some kind of chronic sin, because it simply cannot be, it is hypothetical 160 million, we do not know how much it would be – no less, no more. My colleague Logar had a very good, populist to some extent, a parable of a car that was broken, must be repaired and then sold. I would fully agree with that if I were to complete this story to the end. This car, without having to or deciding whether to sell it or not, you have to sell this car because a commitment has been made to sell this car, or you will be expelled from the community, or you will suffer abnormal criminal measures, and in that sense this story needs to be completed if we want to be honest. It's not just a screw-up engine. This is the truth and these are the conditions, these are the circumstances in which the New Ljubljana Bank is located. 760 million recapitalisation, a billion 510 million aid, and if this did not happen, this sale would then be followed by the return of these billions of 510 million, penalties, exclusion, isolation, not least criticism, which Slovenia cannot afford at the moment. Let me just turn this board around so we can deal with one political manoeuvre, if you want, with the duality of the careful opposition. The concern for these millions that have so erupted is tremendously great – if I remind you of the twelve politically imposed referendums, if they took 38 million, but there is no will to be talked about, so I will only remind you of the last six: the referendum on RTV, the archives, the Family Code, the Law on the Protection of Archive Material, the Law on Marriage and Family Relations and, lastly, the second track of Divaca-Koper, all referendums. So, both SDS and related parties state for themselves, in principle, they do not support anything the government proposes. We also have a very fresh example that they do not, in principle, support the government's proposal to limit interest to the obligors, of course we know that they have no sympathy, no understanding and never had it. When the government suggested that interest should be limited and that it should approach the payment of compensation, some 26 million — no! They insist on keeping interest, so that the damage done by the government — just as they see it — was even greater. So I suggest and ask, when are you going to start counting damage due to your own actions, because of your deception, because of your desperate speech, when you don't have a basis for it? And how long will Cerar, because of the success of his government, be the target of your hopes, because it does not benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The text is by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u80	However, this debate was slightly under the belt and it was unworthy of these discussions in the National Assembly. Well, that's something to admit. Because of our own work, we are making a political manoeuvre and we are duplicity because of the success of the Government of Mir Cerar. The success of the government of Mir Cerar has been demonstrated in the elections, from 36 Members to – how many? - Nine Members. This is the success of the government of Mir Cerar, a certain success of the government of Mir Cerar. Mixing the referendums with the damage caused by the political decision is unfair and subversive. As you know, after the stop, the referendum is signed on the basis of the initiative of the electorate, not the National Assembly. 40,000 people, you've listed six referendums now, 6 times 40,000 is 240 thousand people. You have now put 240 thousand people to nothing, Mr. Honourable Member, who have been chosen to elect voters and voters – who are paid by taxpayers! Their direct democracy, which is expressed through the referendum, not indirectly through you, but directly through the democracy set out in the Constitution, you have put into nothing. Do you even know what you said? You are against the fundamental postulate of this country, against which you have tried to defend an unwise business decision or political decision of your party's president. You're going so far, you're going so far as to put 240 thousand people in nothing to defend Mira Cerar because of a foolish political decision that has caused up to 400 million euros in damage! You said some nonsense that the constitution doesn't know the institute of responsibility of the former government. Yeah, how's that?? All that is not directly prohibited is allowed; therefore, the responsibility of the former government is allowed because of an unwise political decision. The problem is that you and your coalition partners are all now taking this political responsibility. That's the problem, and you have a majority in this national council, and that's how it goes. It is not possible to determine what the price would have been if it had been different, I don't know, classification if it were a different way. You've been through a lot here! It's very over. The sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, the Secretary of State will know, was conducted under the so-called code name Project goldsmith. Two companies have made a valuation and in appreciation of the PVC that your Minister of Finance has, which is owned by your Minister of Economy, originating from your party, is clearly written, “because of the political decision on dispersed sales, the price is 25 per cent lower”. Of course. Black on white! With this awareness you went to sell this bank, so it is your political decision; also you, when you voted here, on this facility in the previous mandate of 13 July 2015 to adopt such a classification or strategy and you have thus assumed this responsibility. The only thing we want here, however, is to establish the responsibility of the relevant institutions, that it will not be a political dialogue, that we will have a black one in white, and that we will then be able to discuss the following political responsibilities, which I believe will not be the resignation of the President of the Government, because, given the election result, you no longer have, but that can mean the dismissal or withdrawal of the Minister for, I don't know, Foreign Affairs as President and the most responsible one who has made such a political decision. This, however, can be accepted by this body — political responsibility. And don't mix things that don't belong with you and confuse the truth. Once again, 400 million euros of damage has been caused to us taxpayers by two political decisions: delays and decisions on how to sell the New Ljubljana Bank. It's written down, proven in the files. I have them, I have them, I can give them to you then, no, I can't protect you because I have to keep a business secret, but I'll tell you, I assure you, they're in there. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I see that the next one is also present in the Chamber today, Mrs Mateja Udovč. And behind her is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We probably all know the Latin expression and the legal principle taken into our legal system: Pacta sunt servanda – contracts must be respected. It is also right that they should be exercised in good faith. In 2013, the government of Alenka Bratušek entered into a binding agreement with representatives of the European Commission on the sale of the capital share of Nova Ljubljanska banka in exchange for the granting of State aid for the rehabilitation of the bank. The concrete commitments of the agreement were never fully known. Key data on the extent to which the Bank must shrink, in which sectors and under what conditions it can approve new loans were classified and not publicly available by the European Commission and the Ministry of Finance. This situation with the next government of Dr. Mir Cerar meant only the continuation of the sales process or the respect and implementation of the agreed procedure. Of course, in this process, the government also pursued the interests of the state of Slovenia and the taxpayers, who recapitalised the bank. However, the fact remains that this decision was a necessity in the circumstances at the time, as shown by the financial and macroeconomic indicators. The government of Dr. Mir Cerar encouraged new negotiations with the European Commission in the area of economy, reduction of public debt. The government has negotiated the objective of NLB remaining a strong national regional bank and that sales will be as favourable to taxpayers as possible. The government of Dr. Mir Cerar has pledged that the state will maintain a 25 per cent ownership share plus one share and at the same time determine how to sell that none of the buyers will be able to exceed the share of the country. On the one hand, the State has protected its influence in the bank and, on the other hand, has waived the acquisition premium for the purchase of a controlling share in the bank. In any other period, it is likely that they could actually recover more for the share, but public sales have revealed the situation on the market. In addition to the sales price itself, we need to take into account the broader aspect of the fact that the Republic of Slovenia, as the sole shareholder of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, has already received dividends totalling EUR 380 million in the period following the granting of the State, that the implementation of the sale has a positive impact on the preservation of the country's credit rating in international capital markets and can have a positive impact on the movement of budget financing costs, that the implementation of the sale gives a clear signal to modern markets that Slovenia today respects the commitments. At the same time, we must not forget that Slovenia, in its discussions with the European Commission, has achieved that even after privatisation in the bank, the country will be able to maintain a control stake of 25 per cent plus one share and will remain a regional player in the Balkans. The former governments, including the government under the leadership of the champion of the current opposition, had the opportunity and opportunity to sell the NLB but did not. Why? So are they also politically and indemnity responsible? The government of Dr. Mir Cerar has re-examined only sales, and has undertaken the sales of NLB in a responsible manner by following the interests of taxpayers and countries. I will not comment on the Government's recommendation, but I will support it even less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is "Alenka Jeraj." Get ready. Sorry. I didn't see you. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u84	Look, presidents, you're running this session as it goes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u85	Okay, thanks so much for the heads-up. But first, raise your hand so I can see you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u86	I've held it, and I've shown it to you like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u87	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u88	Thank you. Dear Mrs Udovč, this has not been proposed by the Government, otherwise you are against what the Government is proposing – the opposition has proposed otherwise. But I'm glad you probably see us in the role of government. But this is what I will say to my colleague of the Widows, because that is exactly what she said, what we are showing in this document, or what we have put forward in this request for an extraordinary meeting. [[…]] In fact, Mrs Udovč said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was the main reason for the decision to retain the largest share and thus the impact on decision-making in the NLB, that it had renounced the takeover premium. Yeah, that's it! You have given up consciously taking over the premium, that is, the taxpayers' funds, to maintain your influence in this bank. There's no better evidence than what we're saying today, and you're also aware of yourself, and you're just looking for reasons to blur things out in some way. Thank you, Mrs. Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Now she has the word, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. We have a lot of problems tying ourselves to something, and then we try to avoid it. Also because some apparently have few Balkan practices; when you say something, but the word does not have to be kept and we will somehow come through. A colleague said Cerara's government did it with care and so forth. I don't think she was working very hard, I think she was stalling, because she wasn't interested in selling NLB all the time. There's more to it than that. Of course, at the end of the day, there was nothing else left because they were actually constantly waving in front of our eyes, because you committed yourself and decided to do so yourself. By 31 December 2017, we should do this because otherwise we should not invest and rehabilitate banks, which we have already rehabilitated several times. My colleague Logar also found out on his committee who was responsible for this, that we had to rehabilitate the bank again. If the rule of law were to work with us, probably a few of these gentlemen would be coming to court every day, and probably the same as it would have been at the Age. But with us, we persecute those who are not guilty and then we have to let them out of prison, those who deserve to be there, and we do not persecute them, or at the National Investigation Office do not know what to do and how to get them. Despite the fact that the Commission provided evidence to them, despite having all of these people's hearings. So, the wrong state would say that the investigative commission has to carry out the work of investigators in this country, who are, of course, paid for it. I still don't know what they're doing on the banking system or on these abuses in banks or not. Doesn't sound like much. We may see one action again, they will go to some home, but it will probably happen in the same way as in health care, where my colleagues Jelka will also find out about the abuse, in a row will write companies that have taken advantage of it, but of course the National Investigation Office and our criminals will carry out house investigations and call or call for questioning the least three, but not the three biggest – those who have abused the most have earned the most in this business. Why do I not believe that the government of Mira Cerar has acted with care? As early as spring 2016, SDH selected consultants for sale and then nothing happened for one year. It shall be dragged again until March 2017. It was further stated that the price would be significantly lower due to the decision to go on a dispersed sale, that the condition was the dispersion of ownership. Our fellow Members pointed out that this would be a problem, not only for fellow Members, but also for the studies mentioned, but for the Government of Mir Cerar to decide otherwise. He also warned that the time for sale of the bank at the end of 2017 was favourable, you did not want to hear. We are obviously only bringing you the wrong proposals, which you are happy to reject, even though it turns out that we were right after one year, but of course you will never admit it and say that we were right and warned about the right things. At that time, the price could be 25 percent higher than it is today. And that, again, your care and caution and so forth, you don't care who's responsible. You proved this because you did not support the recommendation we proposed, you rejected the proposal of SDS, New Slovenia and SNS because you are afraid. You're afraid some independent authority would find out we're right and find out who's responsible for selling the bank too cheap. Well, that's, you know, a double personality. Conclusion: The Commission's report on bank abuses was adopted unanimously. So we hoped and believed that we wanted to know what was going on in the banks and that we wanted to solve these things. Now it's working again like we don't care what happened to the NLB and why it happened. I am so sorry that this recommendation has not been adopted, since sooner or later, what has happened and who is to blame.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Get Blaž Pavlin ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u92	A nice greeting to all present from my side! Today, we are talking about responsibility in the National Assembly, or we are supposed to talk about responsibility and the facts that give rise to this responsibility. With regard to responsibility, this part of the hall on my right is usually very loud when it comes to the exercise of responsibility in certain minor matters. Today we are talking about responsibility not for some 10 or some 100 euros, not liability for a few million Euros of damage, but we are talking about responsibility and that this responsibility has not been established for a few hundred million Euros of damage caused to people, because because the failure to sell the New Bank of Ljubljana has been the most felt by those who pay higher taxes on their skin, have lower pensions and must contribute significantly more to the state treasury than would otherwise be necessary. If today we are being listened to by those little thieves sitting in the Age, where the damage was a few hundred or maybe even a few thousand euros, they are probably surprised by what we are talking about today, because if we had a normal legal state, then this debate would not be necessary today. Responsible for several hundred million damages only in this particular case of sale of the New Ljubljana Bank would sit at the Age and not discuss what we are talking about here today. However, you have gone so far as not to support even the conclusions which would require that the competent, paid for it and who must ensure that criminal acts are sanctioned do their job. You were not even prepared to accept these conclusions! By doing so, you take on your share of responsibility; I do not know if you are aware of this. This responsibility after today is no longer only the responsibility of Mira Cerar and his government, as of today it passes this responsibility on all of you; because some average citizen cannot understand how the rule of law works with someone who steals an hour or so in trade, how the rule of law does not work in those who are responsible for some hundred million euro damage. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when I listened to some of the debates, don't mind me, I think you've drawn the wrong speeches out of the drawers; the speeches you pulled out when you were defending the New Ljubljana Bank, how it's a national interest, how it can't be sold in this national assembly, in this reference you talked about, a bank that was proven to be a multi-million-million-dollar money launderer, which proved to be a credit to the pretty eyes and so on, from which the average citizen had nothing, except that for decades he would be paying higher taxes than it would have been necessary. It is important to walk a little through the chronology of how this matter has taken place, but with regard to responsibility, I would like to say that in this country authorities can exercise responsibility. I will tell you a specific case that took place years ago when the share of the General Navigation was sold. At the time, he was Minister of the late Bajuk. Since one of the tenderers was not satisfied that this share was not sold to him and purchased by another German tenderer, initiated proceedings and criminalists, the prosecutions, the courts have been grinding the story for several years and are likely to be grinding it today, it is not closed. Where this share was sold at a public invitation, at a public invitation or at a public invitation, the tenders were first made and, after the process could have been completed, because the purchase was reached extremely high because the share was sold at the time when the conditions for the sale of the shipowner were favourable, the auction was still carried out and this purchase increased, but for some in that country it was not sufficient. For years and years, on the basis of the application of one of the tenderers, the procedure was followed, that the state property had been damaged and that a higher purchase could be achieved. Really? What about in this case when we have data on the table; the data that has been proven to indicate that the time was right and that this purchase could not be only 400 million higher, probably once again in relation to the banks that were sold in 2017 around us. I think it is right to take a quick walk again through these facts, which speak of the damage being caused here, that it is tangible, that it is visible to everyone in sight, and I expect that the Special Prosecutor's Office has already started the procedure and the National Investigation Office, as we speak publicly about it, the facts are on the table, everything is recorded and recorded. I wonder if this procedure has already begun, it was yesterday, it will be today or tomorrow, because it's not going to work. As a result of this, confidence in the country is falling, and people's trust in the institutions is declining, resulting in people's confidence in the National Assembly, in the Government, in justice and everything else. That's why we have the system's erosion because in the Age, those who stole the pate in the store don't sit down who caused more hundred million damage! And as long as it is, there will be no trust. He won't be here! I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 12. The undertaking was adopted in 2013. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 12. Since measures have been taken to ensure the long-term capital adequacy of the New Ljubljana Bank and the commitment given, as a result, that bank will be sold by the end of 2017 until 31. 12. 2017, and at that time it was stipulated that the State would maintain 25 plus one share. As already stated, in spring 2016, the selected consultant initiated the procedure, after the Government of Mira Cerar proposed that this sale be made in two steps; 50 per cent by the end of 2017, 50 per cent by the end of 2018. This decision was already bad and harmful. It is already this decision, since every average literate economist is aware that this means a weaker position for the sale of the bank and thus a lower price and a lower purchase. In May 2017, when the share range ranged between €55 and €71, sales stopped. Then there were several months left in 2017, and the price was now below €55. Less than 51.50 euros. At that time there was a range between 55 and 71, and the government of Mira Cerar refused to sell the bank at such a price. Then the months ran, our colleague Susana Lepi Šimenko warned in October 2017 on the question of the Member State, that the situation was favourable and that the procedure should be continued. Don't say it wasn't a warning! They were also from the sentinel benches! Why did she keep that in mind? Due to the fact that a few kilometres north of us were sold in Austria by the bank – BAWAG, where the purchase was 1.43 times the book value. In those circumstances, therefore, if the New Ljubljana Bank were to be sold, the purchase would be EUR 105. 105 euros, so twice what you've sold the bank now, right now. Let's leave it, maybe the circumstances would not be such, but it is undeniable that the bank has been sold in inappropriate circumstances, that the responsibility for this sale has been borne by the government of Mir Cerar, and that by protecting this decision today, you are taking this responsibility. And you're also taking over because you sold this bank at a price that's not right and that's bad and harmful to this nation. You sold it. List of Marjan Šarcas, Mir Cerar's party, Democratic Party of Pensioners, Social Democrats, Alenka Bratušek Party and, of course, the first Supercoalic Left. You have sold this bank for the price we are talking about today and have caused the damage we are talking about today! And you can't get rid of this responsibility. You've been defending this decision today, and you've confirmed your inappropriate conduct. In the past, we have already had the case of a bank that is no longer bearing the Slovenian name today. At that time, we heard great words about national interest, just as we listened to them here at the New Ljubljana Bank, as we listened to them at the brewery in the past, where a similar story happened. Until the humble comrades came to tell who they could sell to, of course, these companies did not sell themselves, and then they were at a significantly lower price than they would have if they had been sold by good masters. I'm talking about Banka Koper. The Bank of Koper was first taken over by the state, taking over the burden of the General Navigation of its own – something similar to what you did when you took over the burdens of Croatian investors' claims to the New Ljubljana Bank, where you also reduced the purchase price by over 300 million euros with this. This burden fell on the country, not as it would have been right and could have happened in the autumn of 2017 in order to take over the burden of the one who would have bought the bank. The same thing happened with Banka Koper. The burden of the General Navigation was taken over by our country, the bank was cleared, the old boys on the Coast – that is, the comrades’ directors concentrated ownership in some of their companies that they controlled – and the Bank of Koper was sold to the Italian buyer for some time, Sanpaolo IMI is today called. Nothing more is Banka Koper! Sanpaolo IMI. Who did this? Those who are the loudest here today and in all these days, in the past on the protection of national interest, take care of the little man and so on. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. For the gentlemen you represent here in the National Assembly are those who are not only in the case of the New Bank of Ljubljana, even in the case of Bank Koper and many other companies, this country and this taxpayer have done the most harm. Today was an opportunity for this, a new coalition, under the leadership of the List of Marjan Šarc, which was considered to be a new face, for a new policy, to show and demand established responsibilities in this case. However, it turns out that if you pour a little more of the well into some jar with mud water, even if this well is clean, that water is still the size of the mud, a little less, but nothing is cleaner than it used to be. This is what is happening here today by preventing the decision to require the competent authorities to exercise responsibility for several hundred million damages in the case of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much! The word is Blaž Pavlin, and Daniel Krivec is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u94	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! I agree with some in today's debate that the New Ljubljana Bank should have been sold much earlier, and I regret that this has not happened. If they did, they would probably get a substantial higher purchase and it would not be necessary to recapitalise the banks as the responsible owner would ensure that the bank would not lend its loans without coverage. I must also touch on today's opinion of the Government, in which the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Methods of Dragonja, said that last year the Government could not have known that the price of 2018 would be lower than that of 2017. This may be true, but the government or the state could learn something from its mistakes in the past when individual parties protected their national interest in the sale of individual companies and then did not sell themselves in time. Is it not the interest of the State to make the most of its assets and then use it wisely for the benefit of its citizens? Let me remind you of the sale of Pivovarna Union in 2001, when signatures were collected after the National Assembly against the sale of the brewery to foreign brewery and the protection of national interest, or for the sale of Telekom in 2007 and 2008, when the sales were opposed by two coalition parties and now at the end of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank in 2016 and 2017. What are the consequences of these cut-off sales? In the end, next to the Union Brewery, we sold beer to foreigners. The price of Telekom's shares fell to €65 today from the estimated sales price of around €500. And we sold NLB with a negative EUR 400 million. Is this really in the interest of the state or are these the interests of the background individuals?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Prepare the Victory of the Elinčič Tribal and Mr Alexander Reberšek, because I see that there is no victory. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I am listening attentively all day long to the debate, and there have been many concrete things that have been said in our proposal for an extraordinary meeting, which are also explicitly stated. It is very interesting that in the coalition all the time try to move things a few years ago and talk about some things that are outside the context of the requirement to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which is in some ways also a good sign, because you realize that the topic is unpleasant for you or that it has weight and therefore you are trying to change the whole story and talk about things that have been gone for years and years and where the sessions have already been dedicated to individual things, as well as investigative commissions and so on. This means that you are very disturbed and troubled by the matter. You cannot avoid that there has actually been some damage, which is evident from these available studies and which are also listed in the material. My predecessors have already warned that in the past we have pointed out that the dispersed sale of shares will definitely mean a significantly lower yield, which has proved to be in the end. Also, the fact that sales have been slowed down for several years, especially in this last period, meant that this would definitely be a lower price. It is interesting that in some way you defend and say, there was no other solution, but see, the Minister of Finance in the previous government and even at the beginning of this government, somehow invited to resolve this situation, in 2017, suggested that a guarantee be set up for transferred roles of Croatian taxpayers. In the National Assembly, we have even considered the proposal to resolve this through constitutional law. That's when the government stopped it and moved the sale and lowered the price. Interestingly, this year this National Assembly has virtually established a guarantee for the payment of these applications and has thus transferred the burden to the country. What's changed? The same person advocated at one point, whether the same government or the same government, in which case it is now recycled, did not listen, but this year, when shares were already falling in one way or another, it was, of course, absolutely acceptable and permissible. From this point of view, someone has to take some responsibility for an inappropriate time to sell a bank. And that's what we're pointing out, and you're trying to bring the whole thing back 15, 20 years ago to some period when our government had the opportunity to sell, of course, but you're forgetting that at the time the opposition and the general public and other stakeholders were significantly different, there was no consensus. In the case of sales last year, however, even the opposition helped in the context of protecting the transferred roles of Croatian taxpayers, provided you with the opportunity to establish this guarantee and then the Government did not decide. Apparently, the price was too high at the time, and some apparently could not buy these shares. Therefore, it was necessary to delay and reduce the value of the share in order for suitable and genuine buyers to gain this asset, which is now regaining value. This minister, who then advised you and negotiated in Europe and tried to sell the matter at a time when she was still of some value, you also asked to participate in this government, and apparently there was no proper hearing, and eventually you replaced her as a secretary of state, but in this year you took over the guarantee in the same way as last year. So someone made a political decision about it. There was no technical or professional argument that this had moved and therefore some responsibility had to be put on. In this National Assembly, we have had many meetings on the subject of bank holes, responsibilities and taking responsibility, as well as the search for some persons who will at least be formally responsible for certain procedures. In this case, when we explicitly write this, when you have black on white, that someone has decided on behalf of the bank, the government, the states, the taxpayers, you do not accept this and reject all the content of the story a few years ago. It was also interesting your discussion, however, to have this initiative at another instance to verify the actual responsibility. Thank you for your advice, but this may also happen and the responsibility of those who have stalled with sales will be checked and caused a huge hole. The estimate is 400 or more million, which someone will have to cover in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Aleksander Reberšek has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The state is not set to manage banks, businesses, the state has to take care of measures to help economic growth and ensure that employment is as high as possible. Cerar's government, together with all coalition parties, knew exactly that it would have to sell the bank, but decided not to sell the banks before the elections for purely political reasons and for collecting political points before the elections. Although the European banking stock indices at the time were high in May and June 2017 and the time was favourable for sale, the then government decided to continue the sale of NLB. The share price was at least €55 at the time, and today we have spent €51 and a half for the stock. So the difference is 3 and a half euros per share. We sold 59.1%, says 11 million 820 thousand shares. If we multiply this times 3 and a half, it means that you robbed taxpayers for at least 41 million euros. Well, that's a minimum grade. Taking into account the issue of Croatian savers, we could find that we could have endured much more for the stock. Almost half a billion. All so that coalition parties can go to the elections in peace and, of course, we have presented the bill to our Slovenian citizens. I'm curious, former coalition, you knew you'd have to sell the bank. Why did you postpone your decision and not sell when the time was best for it? Last but not least, I would like to know who will be responsible for the damage to all taxpayers by €42 million in this country. But in the end, I don't want to warn you about anything. If a citizen commits a road traffic offence on the road, he is responsible for it and must pay for it if the President of the Government damages this country and makes a 42 million hole, he becomes the Foreign Minister for the prize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u100	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The key question is why the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank has been delayed. In fact, the European Commission decided that the stake in the New Ljubljana Bank should be sold at the end of 2013, while Nova Ljubljanska Banka was sold one month ago – in 2018. So, what have you been up to in the meantime? I personally believe that the main responsibility in this sale lies with the government of Mir Cerar, the coalition of parties of the Modern Centre, the Social Democrats and Desus. The fact is, when this government took over the exercise in its own hands, it had a European Commission sales decision on the table. And of course nothing happened. I'm sure you were aware that you were aware of the issues within the coalition. Here at least two parties were absolutely on the side that Nova Ljubljanska banka would not be sold, the price here is not important, and not least would I say that a few months before the flag fell, you withdrew and sold the matter at the lowest possible price available at the time. Today we have listened mainly from coalition Members and Members that after the battle it is possible to be a general. Look, there are at least 25 generals here who, in their previous mandate through parliamentary questions, have always asked both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance and even earlier Minister of Finance, Dr. Maramor, not least I would say a few questions which were addressed to the Government. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when the Modern Centre Party was most praised in the management of state property, we were also alerted to its adoption. This is a national asset management strategy. In fact, this tied your hands together that you did not have to sell your stake in Nova Ljubljanska banka in 100 percent, but that you sold it 75 minus one share. Most of all, what is said in here is that the leadership of the Slovenian State Holding – I think there in 2016 – has warned the Ministry of Finance and the Government that the strategy adopted by that coalition or in the National Assembly by members of the coalition is inadequate and poorly written. The current Secretary of State of Methods Dragonja promised to amend the strategy for September 2016. It wasn't any of that! Despite the fact that the management of the Slovenian State Holding noted that the strategy was flawed. The most obvious is, of course, this – and I am also personally convinced – that it was mainly a problematic way of selling, both a time component and a share that you decided to sell. I am convinced that sales could be more efficient and also an inflow to the budget and could be significantly higher for taxpayers if they decided to sell a 100 % share of this bank. On the other hand, you have decided to sell 75 percent minus one share and then you have accepted another restrictive criterion, namely that none of the buyers can buy a higher share than the country has. So with all the restrictions, you've also reduced your stock price. I'm sure this coalition should accept this responsibility. They are responsible for such a low price for the New Ljubljana Bank, in particular the President of the previous Government, Dr Miro Cerar, and the President of Desusa Karel Erjavec and the President of the Social Democrats, the current President of the National Assembly, Mr Židan. It seems to me that they have a key responsibility. I am sure that for the New Ljubljana Bank, with a different way of selling, a different time component could survive significantly more. However, it is also true that, during this interim period, Nova Ljubljanska Banka had to take a number of compensatory measures and a number of restrictive measures, which have consequently reduced the price. Last but not least, we cannot talk about the successful sale of the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank, because you sold more than 50 per cent, but 75 per cent minus one share was available and because of the failure to sell this whole share, Nova Ljubljanska Banka will now have to sell the stake in the Vita life insurance company and close some of its businesses. So we certainly cannot talk about the effective management of state property. I personally believe that Nova Ljubljanska Banka is a school case of how state property is not managed and the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is a school case of how state property is not sold. I'd just like to mention one more thing. From the time of the decision of the European Commission until the conclusion of the sale, three presidents of the management were replaced in the company responsible for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, the Slovenian State Holding. During this interim period, the Slovenian state holding company at the time of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank had never had complete leadership and had never had a complete supervisory board. This is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with Mir Cerar, because the Government of Mir Cerar was also the Assembly of the Slovenian State Holding. The sales consultant, who was selected by the Slovenian State Holding Company, said Deutsche Bank would not start the sale process until Nova Ljubljanska Banka had full leadership. 100% owner of Nova Ljubljanska banka Republic of Slovenia, Assembly of Nova Ljubljanska banka, Government of the Republic of Slovenia led by Mir Cerar. This means, always – whether we are looking from the left or looking from the right, or looking up or looking down below – the responsibility in the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank goes to the government led by Miro Cerar and the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government and the representatives of the proposer are given the floor. The first one has the word Method Dragonja, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We have listened carefully to all the debaters, the views of the parliamentary parties on the proposal of the proposer. Otherwise, the aim is to identify the political responsibility of the former government. Today we have worked together mainly to obtain additional opinions and suggestions and assessments from political parties, Members and Members on the governance of state assets. I must say, the General Secretariat of the Government has suggested that we do not attend this meeting because the Government has not accepted the position. However, we felt responsible for this segment in this part where we direct and have the Ministry of Finance within the Government to manage state assets, to adopt policies in this area, so this debate is relevant to us. It has shown that the views of political parties are different, in particular as to whether it was right that Nova Ljubljanska Banka stood in the process of privatisation. Above all, there are conflicting views as to whether, in the past, this sale should have taken place or should not have come to a sale at all, the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. Here we estimate that positions will never be unified. Above all, how this process was carried out, how it entered and what objectives were pursued. and above all, I will give my opinion and the opinion of the Ministry on whether the objectives of selling the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank to the stock exchange have been achieved, and therefore also on whether State-owned property management is effective. As regards the management of state assets, the National Assembly has received a full report from the administrator, the largest part of the state assets of the Slovenian State holding company, and the parent labour bodies have already discussed this and will be able to discuss it in part. Thus, some flat-rate estimates that the management of state property is ineffective, poor, and untransparent, these arguments in whole or in such an assessment – we think they are flat-rate and unfounded. Since the adoption of the new Slovenian State Holding Act and the management strategy, the management of state property has improved significantly. This is based on figures concerning key indicators, which are set and which are also comparable to key indicators for the management of state assets in other countries and which are in line with the recommendations of organisations such as the OECD Organisation for Economic Development and Cooperation, which sets good practices for both the management of state-owned enterprises and, above all, corporate governance standards. The most difficult thing is actually to measure, not so much for companies, their current results, in influencing their operation and then the volume of dividends they pay in the budget or consist of public financial revenues. In fact, the most difficult assessment in the segment relating to company availability is to have a shareholding in companies, whether the results achieved are good, and these results are mainly reflected in the value realised in the case of privatisation procedures. The value reflects the type of circumstances, the price of the shares, and the nature of these processes is that the sellers are largely dissatisfied with the price and the purchaser. In fact, the seller looks back on what he has invested, what he is giving up, by withdrawing from ownership. It is important to know, however, that the price then shaped in some balance with expectations, with customers, with investors. The buyers are only interested in the future. Today the debate went 100 percent to the past, to the past. However, the buyers expressed their interest through entering ownership primarily through the documents presented in this process. Through the prospectus, through projections, through strategy and through the ability to implement this strategy, which is reflected in the competence of management and also in the stability of the economic environment – not only of Slovenia but also of others in which the bank operates. I estimate that the impact of the sale and placement of shares of Nova Ljubljanska Banka will have long-term positive effects on the Slovenian economy and, secondly, that Nova Ljubljanska banka – and this should all be appreciated – is successfully placed on a stock exchange quotation on the London capital market and on the Ljubljana capital market is the only Slovenian share or ownership certificate that is listed on the international capital market and has the potential to grow and to ensure value for its investors, and in particular that it can also work successfully further. This is said to play its role as a systemic bank and financial intermediary in this environment. This is now expressed, for a short period of time, through the stability of the stock value, which has been formed after placement in this short period and, on the other hand, through the credit ratings of that bank. Those Members who have been bankers in their careers know that the rating is a key statement and some operations and ratings of the New Ljubljana Bank have essentially been corrected after being placed on the stock exchange. We have looked at: Moody's credit rating NLB, although for the assessment of long-term deposits in domestic and foreign currency with Baa2, raised to Ba1 on 4 December. This is the maximum rate in rating classification B. This is said to be the case, the Ljubljana Bank came after this indicator practically to the threshold of the rating class A to a large extent also because of all the measures that have been taken. It is now practically in the upper part of the rating rankings: BB, B+. Moody's, who is relatively strict, has made a very strict assessment of the credit ratings of this financial institution during the financial crisis, has practically now ranked the best among the three credit rating agencies that assess this bank. The price, as established in this procedure, is a reflection of the conditions under which the procedure was conducted. As I said at the outset, there is also a reflection of the strategy; the strategy is not a document that we have actually invented or designed only at the Ministry of Finance; the strategy has been the subject of extensive coalition coordination in the previous government and has been the subject of very careful consideration. This was indeed not only pursued by values, price targets, but also by other objectives presented in the introduction. The assessment of whether this sale was now effective or economically viable cannot be concluded solely on the basis of the price achieved. In the introduction, I said that this was also the result of the profits paid by the state during the interim period, and this is also the result of the position that we will have through this way of selling through the operation of this bank in the Slovenian economic area through the effective implementation of the role of the financial intermediary, notably through security for savers and investors on the one hand, depositors and through the competitiveness of the loans that this bank will provide to the economy and the population. Thesis on whether or not the sale was economically viable will certainly be assessed. Under the circumstances, the Ministry of Finance estimates that it is a healthy compromise for all these aspects of the goods and that, above all, it provides a good perspective for this bank and provides investors with the potential to manage it successfully and efficiently. One of the important reasons why the European Commission imposed sales on the Republic of Slovenia as a compensatory measure and was negotiated up to a certain threshold in these negotiations, up to 75 per cent minus 1 share, were also weaknesses in corporate governance. That's what you have to say. Corporate governance during the period around the financial crisis, during the financial crisis, was then associated with weaknesses in risk management in this financial institution, with weaknesses in lending, which created losses, and measures for granting or granting State aid were also linked to addressing these weaknesses, and commitments that were made changed and complemented in several stages. Now the key question is – in fact, there are two elements to assessing the economy or the impact of this privatisation. The first is a premium that was not realized because it prevailed or the concept of diversified ownership was defined. This premium is largely offset by the fact that Nova Ljubljanska Banka will be able to effectively perform its functions as a financial institution to run these operations here in Ljubljana and that we keep these key functions in Slovenia. The sale under the principle of 100 % sales would, however, give a higher price, give a premium, but on the other hand it would mean the transfer of a large part or an important part of the bank's management activities to the new owner. We've already told our mother's work body what happened in Vienna. Banks, Austria, which were once important regional banks, transferred a large part of their business functions in post-acquisition procedures elsewhere, that is to say, to Milan or elsewhere, to other financial centres that now manage these financial groups. This has been prevented in this process and this method of sale has clearly its price and this can also be measured and cost-effective and can be argued on the one hand and on the other, if this needs to be further cleared. The second key element is sales time. Whether this time, in view of the trends on the stock exchange, was actually an element of the lost opportunity, as far as the value is concerned, whether this lost opportunity is damage or not damage, what is the economic definition of damage, the legal definition of damage — whether it is injury. Now it's starting to happen that this is a major damage. This may, in my opinion, be – otherwise I am an economist, not a lawyer – a lost opportunity that was lost at the time for some of the reasons stated by the then decision-makers, but I think it is more important now to look ahead in assessing this whole situation, that by this method of sale, and also by the financial and economic effects achieved and the wider effects, we ensure that this financial institution will work successfully further. The role of the State as owner with a 25 % stake is quite limited. All those who know the principles of operating companies with a 25% glocary share can practically influence the status of the company in particular. It is said that this company cannot be divided into smaller parts so that it cannot be transformed at the mercy of the owner. This is said to, in fact, to balance the will of the new owners, if they are dominant, in some way. In fact, this 25% share of capital does not have a function to influence decisions on the management and management of this financial institution, but mainly has a decision to ensure that this financial institution continues to be managed in Slovenia and that its systemic role as a systemic financial institution will be ensured in this economic area. This is also worth stressing. This is again to be stressed because this was also said in the opening presentation, but this is not something that the Secretary of State invented, but this was a goal that was set when the management strategy was being put in place and this objective was achieved by this method of sales and with this result that was also achieved. So I must say that as far as government is concerned, we are not blushing. We have the results that are the results of the professional hard work on one side of the operator who manages this group of state-owned enterprises entrusted with the Slovenian State Holding Act, including the strategies that make sense, which have produced results, and which are mainly through indicators set up to measure these results, are also recognised wider in the international space in terms of the monitoring provided by the OECD, as well as in terms of these periodic assessments of economic developments and the economic situation in Slovenia carried out by the European Commission. Thus, in this part of these institutions recognise the progress that Slovenia has made in this area, and as far as the New Ljubljana Bank and this first step of privatisation are concerned, we do not need to blush at anyone. Whether or not we have achieved a value that is appropriate under the circumstances is a legitimate discussion and we do not avoid it, and we will continue to make an appropriate argument and a professional basis to the extent that it will have to be ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Ange Logar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u104	Thank you. The Secretary of State also, like colleague Udovč, said that the price that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or SDH had paid for the New Ljubljana Bank had been managed as a result of the strategy adopted. In short, it's a political decision. He also said that the strategy was the subject of coalition coordination. So here we are with this heart of problems: the proposal for coalition coordination. The subject of the Mir Cerar coalition, Karl Erjavac and the SD president, the current president of the National Assembly. The difference between this strategy, the emphasis was on coalition coordination, and the previous strategy, which was drawn up in 2012, is that it was coordinated within all the parties to the National Assembly, and this strategy is only on the side of the coalition – for state ownership of state property, which is owned by all of us. In short, a parliamentary majority, a coalition majority, has taken political responsibility for the entire political system and the result is lower purchases. This is the result, and this purchase was then lower because political coordination with the opposition did not take place. If we were to comply with the opposition at that time, this strategy would be adopted unanimously and we would all have political responsibility, and I believe that it would be significantly better and significantly more targeted for taxpayers to receive State property than in the case of only three men coordinating this coalition. The Secretary of State will boast that after the sale, the credit rating – was corrected by Nova Ljubljanska Banka. Maybe it'll improve because it's no longer in majority state property, maybe that's why. And the rating of the New Ljubljana Bank would also be adjusted if it were sold for one billion, but it was for 600 million. So this is not the reason or the result of the sales price that you achieved when selling the New Ljubljana Bank. This does not reduce the responsibility of the three men. In the introduction, the Secretary of State said a very interesting matter that the Secretariat-General had proposed not to attend today's meeting. Can you imagine? The National Assembly notes and discusses responsibility for the taxpayer's money, and the General Secretariat of this Government, which has carried out the branch of government, gives a directive or proposal: Do not participate in this debate! Can you imagine? But we're talking 400 million! What government leads the Republic of Slovenia, if it proposes to its members, do not participate in a debate on the issue that cost taxpayers EUR 400 million? Now, the Secretary of State has also said that they have achieved their objectives with this sale. What are the goals? No targets. That's right, no goals. The New Ljubljana Bank’s restrictive measures remain the same as before. Because you didn't sell 75 percent. Same. The price you've reached has been low. Low average. Take a look at the set or review of IPO sales that took place in 2017-2016, and you will find that the banks were usually not sold at the bottom of the offered price range, but somewhere in the middle. Even if the sale were then the one between 55 and 71, it is not necessary for it to occur at the lowest price of 55, as some discussers then found that 41 million euros of damage was caused from this title. It would probably be higher somewhere, but because in the meantime, because of the first cancellation and the adverse time, Slovenia was cornered, investors knew that they would come to the bank if they offered the lowest possible price. In some ways, it is understandable why the government’s interest was to reach the lowest possible price. In fact, the original interest was that a significant proportion of these shares of Nova Ljubljanska Banka were purchased by domestic funds and again became owners of Nova Ljubljanska Banka through the feedback loop. And cheaper than a bank, it goes back to state ownership, then not to SDH, but to individual red or different barons that have influential groups in individual state-owned companies. The plan did not fail because the ATVP then issued a position when she said they should not do so. Today we have a sold bank at a price with a majority in this National Assembly, which does not want to identify political and potential compensation for such political action. Personally, I think this is the wrong way. Personally, I believe that we, as representatives of the people, are called on to defend every euro that has been invested in the Slovenian banking system and to look for all those who have influenced the fact that the recovery and return of tax money is lower than it could have been. Anyone who thinks otherwise does not, in my personal opinion, represent the electorate or represent taxpayers or taxpayers. Once again, I am sorry that you have not confirmed the proposal for a decision to clarify this. Perhaps another procedure will be needed, but in any way with today’s session, you too have assumed this responsibility so that you do not want to explore the reasons for such a low purchase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I see quite a few hands. One of the representatives of the proposer of the recommendation and representatives of the Government may also apply to the discussion by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. Each report shall be given after 5 minutes of time. The first is Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] How?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u106	As a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u107	Yes, you can. So, Mrs. Ludmila Novak is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I listened to this debate all the time. When I listened to the position of the Desus Group and my colleague, I was not really quite sure who its extensive criticism was intended for. Why I'm pointing out Desus, even though I'm getting along with my colleagues, there's no problem. But they still sound in my ears the words of President Karl Erjavac on some television ommis that he was reading to me and he said that Ludmila would sell her god when we were talking about selling state property. I did not sell any state property in my political career, and Nova Slovenija was not included in the sale of state property. Why did you put it off like that, and you didn't want to do it before the elections? Yeah, that makes sense! Because you've been telling your constituents all the time how it's state silver, how it's a national interest, how the state needs its bank. I wouldn't mind if this state property and these banks were really well-managed. Here, however, we cannot agree with the Secretary of State who says they have been well-managed. Yeah, then how did a 4-billion-dollar hole come about? Yes, something helped with the financial crisis, but we listened to Logar's report, where we heard how loans were shared on vampires, how 100 million loans were granted, and then came from the bank a polite letter, whether you were going to settle this loan or not, and there was no answer and a similar story. When the new state of Slovenia was created and we closed the old Ljubljana Bank and created the New Ljubljana Bank, I said, and finally now we have our own bank, which we will manage fairly and we will no longer settle these imported credits or what politics has done and non-transparent management. Unfortunately, I was wrong because these practices continued. And since you've always told citizens how a state-owned bank needs it, how important it is, then we find that this bank has often been an ATM for certain customers, for certain powerful people who robbed us. The position also showed that this hole covers the annual budget of several ministries. That is why I always say that hypocrisy, when the same people are talking to me, people from the same parties who were involved in the creation of this hole are talking about the social state and with the necessary social assistance. I say that they would not be necessary because they could provide normal pensions because they could grant higher scholarships because the state would function better if this money instead of in these imported loans and banks could invest elsewhere. This is what we have been stressing all along why this state property should be sold. If it were well managed, it wouldn't be necessary. But it wasn't, because we have proof! Look, we're a ski nation, Slovenians, we all get to know each other on ski jumps, thank God we have good jumpers, sometimes they're better, sometimes they're worse, and we all know how important the jump is, even if we've never jumped, and now we've learned that. Ten seconds, maybe even less, is important and in which direction to bounce. That's exactly what this is about! Since we have put so much time off, proposed, and we all know that when there is time pressure, we are forced to sell more cheaply than when we have plenty of time. The former government, in which you are sitting, which you were also in the previous government, took too much time and missed that convenient moment because you were selling then, but now we have profits, and now we can't sell. Yeah, now we had to sell! Why does Europe make us do this? In order not to go into the same crisis again, in the same way as in the past, just because of that. That's why you've done so much damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First, after all we've heard, it's clear that our taxpayers, Slovenians and Slovenians have been injured. For once in this national council, it is right to pour ourselves pure wine. Dear citizens and citizens, as long as Mr Dragonja comes to the National Assembly, the government is led by Cerar, Jerjavec, Bratuškov, and Mr Židan has come and led the National Assembly, so long, dear citizens and citizens, we have nothing to expect. Nothing will change in this country and in this society! With all the old boys coming from Forum 21 with them paid by the regime media, so long, believe me, in this society, for people, for a simple and poor man, nothing can happen because no one is responsible for anything, no one is to blame. They cover each other, and the state money that goes through one way or another into their pockets pays all these servants, I can call it, who are behind them, to let the Slovenian public know only what they want to tell them. Well, the thefts will continue. People will suffer, and like I said, no one will answer for anything. Now it is clear to all those citizens and citizens why they fought so fraughtly, this government coalition, you probably don't have so many MPs, you haven't had so much influence, and these key people who are now the presidents of the parties sitting in the government to hold this government or this position. I don't think there's anyone in the National Assembly who wouldn't miss it. Of course, they knew that the Ljubljana Bank would be sold. They knew, and that's why they said, and we can't let this prey out of our hands, it's 400 million euros and more, which has landed somewhere in one way or another in these relationships that I've talked about before, in my pockets. Therefore, it is necessary for citizens and citizens to be told the truth and to pour pure wine. There'll have to be a change here. I only expect from the Members and Members of the Coalition that you will not continue to hold the banners of such scoundrels, such people who are there alone and solely for the sake of personal interest and all that this personal interest assures them that they can live as small gods in this society. But here we are in the National Assembly, unfortunately, in the slogans I say, “we are fighting about the backdrop of the shadow”. This is incredible, unacceptable and very sad. I really invite you, all Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, let us no longer allow such people, as I mentioned earlier, to come to the National Assembly or sit in positions that provide them with ministerial chairs. This is a complete destruction for the nation, and this must be cut down and changed.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much! Igor Zorčič has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues! I don't know where to start after this exposition! I am sure that today's meeting was not meant to be in such a way as to discuss just one specific period. Unfortunately, I have found that the proponents only want to focus on the exact period of our bank. Of course, because our bank has its own black history, which goes back to a few governments. I am convinced that every time we talk about it, about all the pigs that have happened there, about all the places and then about filling the bank hole, that some in this national assembly will be interested in talking only about certain years, just about certain governments, some maybe even none, but in the end we always come up with one and the same truth; that there are some customers here who, with what has happened in the history of this bank, that they have virtually nothing and that they now want to do with what is supposed to be a better sale of NLB, are dropping a fog on what has happened in the past. We have indeed had an investigative commission, this has shown a lot, but I think that even if we have a final report from this investigative commission from the previous term, this does not mean that we cannot talk about these things now, in the context of this sale. I would like to point out that the sale of the bank is actually just the saddest part that we were forced to do on occasion. But I think it's more perverted that today it's been operating on numbers like this all along, first there was 400 million potential lost purchases, then it was kind of a fixed price, then it was just evidence. I think we've heard that word 20 times today, and it's trying to get on with the clients of the former coalition. I don't want to defend anyone here, not even the former government, I don't actually have any basis for this, but I want to point out that we are talking about the fact that we want to be informed here that there should be some kind of price that has been lost. Some kind of lost opportunity. I am sure that if this opportunity existed, today those who want to accuse and judge someone from a previous term would also tell them who was willing to pay that price but did not. We are guessing this on the basis of some bank prices, average prices on some markets, but if a buyer has a higher price of EUR 400 million or a higher price of EUR 400 million, let him say so. It's 4:51 p.m., after five, six hours it would be right to hear who's willing to give 400 million more. Let us not forget what happened to the savers of the Ljubljana Bank in Croatia, those judgments, executions, subordinates and the like. Thus, it is more than obvious that today, while it is in one way legitimate to talk about the prices of sales of state property – I am in favour of being conservative in this process, but also here we have adopted a strategy on the management of capital investments – that it is more than evident that it is then at the end of the day, at least as evidenced by today's debates, the purpose of all of this, that there is a fog and that this whole sad story of NLB, which has been going on since independence, turns into the mandate of a government. That's what we witnessed today. I hope that viewers and viewers have seen this, but it certainly is not some kind of journey for some future sale. I hope that in the following cases, if they occur, we will behave perhaps more uniformly and probably a little more conservatively. We are probably no longer being forced by circumstances like perhaps one of the previous governments because of the economic crisis or because of state aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go, Private.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. I'd like to join the previous speaker. It's a really sad story, as it's ended now somewhere with this sale, at least from my point of view. I remember the Ljubljana Bank, which was a regional bank, a reputable regional bank that worked well and was one of the pillars of Slovenian sovereignty and also the transition to independence, to financial autonomy. Then we went to smash it, politically decided to make the New Ljubljana Bank, even though there was a great solution at the time, which was agreed and offered to save Croatia and so on. During a period of which Polnar has been talking about, which is not currently between us, there is a financial structure, financial operators, not only those financial intermediaries, such as the bank, insurance companies, but, above all, foundations, and they have lost their minds on the markets from desire for profit, from desire for growth. We've also lost our minds in a period of time, and I'm going to say, we thought by the Fukuyama system that now it's an eternal system and that everything will just grow, grow. At a time when my colleague Ludmila, whom I also greatly appreciate, is reminded, but she was also in the government when in Slovenia they were in this nonsense – borrowing credits, lending, banks offered, I know – at the time I was the director – with what offers they came. In 2004-2008, this was the worst. Back then, our gross debt grew, with Drnovšk under 5 billion, something had already grown under Robbery, under the leadership of the SDS, and also your party, which was then named differently, but it jumped to 40 billion. This had to be repaired, done and somehow gotten out of it. We must all be aware, this is indeed a sad story, but in the world we are in a monetary economy and financial intermediaries are extremely important. And there are financial institutions yesterday and today – that is, the financial sector deserves more than the real sector. They come higher, so that money moves there and power moves there and we lose money institutions, financial intermediaries like banks like insurance companies, because some have already sold, are losing the foundations of our sovereignty. That is why we really need to look at and look at the future, and I also stress this debate that we are not wasting these institutions, that we are not underestimating them and that we are wasting them so cheap. Thank you very much. [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u116	Since my colleague quoted me or addressed me directly, I must answer. It is true that from 2004 to 2008, Nova Slovenija was in government, then Nova Slovenija, which was established in 2000. I was a European Member at the time, and I was sitting in the European Parliament. But anyway, then the finance was led by the finance minister, our then president, Dr. Andrey Bajuk. You all know that we adopted the euro in 2007, so he had to be very careful about what Slovenia's debt would be, or he was very careful about it. And it was very low and it was also awarded as the finance minister of the year – I think it was in 2005 – and at that time it was the lowest indicators for government debt. What you've been talking about is companies that have over-indebted themselves. This cannot be affected by the financial minister himself if they overestimated or did not plan or know that such a financial crisis would come. That's why he can't be responsible. But all the indicators were very good for Slovenia at the time, in addition to lowering taxes by the then finance minister. That's why we can't talk about it. [[…]] Why did these bank holes come about? Because of such credits that we heard about in Logar's report, when they gave loans, they were lending to vampires when they were putting credits on their eyes; and very large loans. And not exactly companies, individuals who don't know how this money is, so, with fraud. [[…]] This is about fraud! They deliberately bypassed the rules on lending. The second is that companies have been accredited, which was economic growth and did not count on the crisis or whatever. At that time, the Minister of Finance was extremely good at taking care of state finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The following word shall be given to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Method of Dragonja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would just like to give Mrs Ludmila Novak a brief explanation, because you probably didn't listen very carefully to me. My claim was that, from a certain point of view, the management of state property has started to improve. That is to say, I would not like to comment on the past problematic situation to the measures taken by Banka Slovenije to ensure the stability of the banking system, but my claim has been made: since 2013 when measures were taken to ensure the stability of banks, and since 2015 when a framework for the management of state assets has been set up. The two pillars of this framework are the SDH Act, which has been upgraded, the first and the Management Strategy. I'm looking for this motivation and some motive for work in that I do what I do for my grandchildren. We have the same old grandchildren, and the same age are so tiny. Indeed, the property we have, which has been created, we are managing for the next generation. Because it was a misunderstanding; that is to say, we do not want to give back to anyone any forgiveness for mistakes, abuses and so on, but we are working to improve it in this segment. However, this is the most difficult part of the work relating to these procedures, where it is available and where privatisations are available. Second. I wanted to, but Mr Logar has already gone, to say that he has either not listened carefully or deliberately turned around. This claim that it is the Government's interest to allow the sale of this bank at the lowest possible price is a grave disqualification. That's what I have to say. I'll take it from him myself. Throughout the period, SDH and all those involved with the consultants worked to optimize the value, but in the context of the gauges given. The claim that none of the objectives of this privatisation have been achieved is also an inappropriate conclusion. In the introduction, we highlighted three key objectives that were pursued in this difficult stock placement. Firstly, to the extent possible, the State budget will reimburse the funds that have been invested in this bank and will be able to produce this account when this process is completed. We are in the first stage of this process. The nature of these processes not only in us, but elsewhere in the world, is that some have lost significantly more than we will have lost — in these processes where state aid was involved. For these processes, it is virtually impossible to realise the value of banks that have not received these processes. The Bawag transaction is completely incompatible with this NLB transaction. But it will be a comparable transaction when Addiko's bank is privatized. Her predecessor, here in Slovenia as well as wider in the region, was a model of bad banking practices – I have already said this in Parliament several times – bad banking practices, lending and the performance of her function, which in fact also greatly damaged the functioning of domestic financial institutions in this area. Second objective achieved to maintain the country's influence on the management of the Ljubljana Bank through this minority blocking package of 25%. And the third objective is to preserve the New Ljubljana Bank as an important financial institution and business group operating in this region. My assessment is that these objectives are firmly pursued at this stage and can be achieved once this process is completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. As a last resort, he has the word Joseph Horvat as a representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u120	Vice President, thank you very much. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues, for your discussion. Thank you, too, to the Secretary of State, who said a key sentence, which I am firmly convinced of and I know, and I hope that the citizens also understood that this meeting was still meaningful. In the previous performance, Mr State Secretary, who is an economist, a wise man, said about such a way that the sale of shares of the New Ljubljana Bank would have long-term positive effects on the Slovenian economy. He also mentioned credit ratings going up and down. The new Slovenia and the right part of the opposition have been talking about this for at least four years. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Why this meeting was, and I regret that the recommendation – very innocent in fact, but for the citizens right and right – was not accepted. As it is said, “The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government and the competent authorities – the Commission to prevent corruption, detection and prosecution authorities – to investigate and determine, within their competences, the political and compensation responsibility of the Government of Mir Cerar as the SDH Assembly, which arose from December 2016 to November 2018 in the sale of the country's capital investment in Nova Ljubljanska banka, d.d., under the IPO public supply programme.” That's all we wanted. I just need to look at the papers. I'll tell you one thing. Last year’s Miklavžev – said exactly one year ago – Evening: Erjavec hopes that the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank will be delayed after the elections. Is that understandable? It was a political decision because it is pleasing: we do not give ours because it is ours, but let it cost as much as it wants! At least two billion more! We wanted to talk about this today, and we heard that we were right for four years. »Sales of shares of the New Ljubljana Bank will have long-term positive effects on the Slovenian economy.« That is why in New Slovenia we want state-owned companies, not all, to have more responsible owners. And yet once in this temple of democracy, we would end the marathon debates about two, three, four state-owned companies and talk in a business environment for 200 000 companies or business entities in this country. For 200 grand, not one bank! We regret this, but we understand why this recommendation is so simple, so easily understood by all, it has not been accepted. Because you have to protect yours. Even those of you who gave your credits. Because of this Logar report that we've all adopted here, it's not going to experience any epilogue where it's supposed to. We've done everything. We've done a lot. Everybody. Everyone has taken decisions, including that we need to set up a special court to deal with bankers, so to speak, in our jargon. The decision was taken in the National Assembly, but you said no; you beat yourself – of course in the previous term. I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues who have been sitting here since the constitutional session. This lesson that lasted — how long? – five hours, six hours, is extremely important because we have learned that the sale of shares of Nova Ljubljanska Banka will have long-term positive effects on the Slovenian economy. Can we learn from this also in the privatisation of Telekom and so forth? All those companies that this National Assembly once placed on the list of companies that the State will privatise. We have charged 41 million; that indemnity is responsible for the 41 million three presidents of the previous coalition. However, if we sell in June 2017 not at the lowest price, i.e. EUR 55 per share, if we sell 60 euros, that is the difference. We need to fix this universal payment order to a hundred million dollars. A hundred million, ladies and gentlemen! And that was today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-05-SDZ8-Izredna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and also the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I'm informing you that in 15 minutes, this is at 5:25 p.m., the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly begins.
