ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 39th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Iva Dimic, Suzanne Lepi Šimenka, Anja Bah Žibert, Mag. Bojana Muršič from 2 p.m. on, Marija Bachič from 12 p.m. on, Andreja Potočnik, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 11 a.m., Eva Irgl, Vesna Vervega until 14 p.m., Vlasta Wait, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer from 2.30 p.m. to 17 p.m., Mariana Kotnik Porotat from 14 p.m., Urška Ban, Dr. Jasna Murgel from 3 p.m., Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Roberto Battelli, Franz Breznik, Benedict Kopmayer, Tomaž Gantar, Uroš Prikl, Matjaž Han, Ivan Škodnik, Danilo Anton Ranc, Dr. László Göncz, dr. Bojan Dobovšek, Jani Möderndorfer, Miha Kordiš, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Franc Laj, Igor Zorčič, and I am a percentage of myself since 18:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, it is firstly a proposal for a law to provide funds for some urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. The draft law was tabled by a group of eighty Members and Members, first signed by Dr Dragan Matic. With regard to this bill, a group of 13 Members and Members, with the first signed by Dr Dragan Matic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Creating opportunities for coherent civil and cultural development in Slovenia and ensuring the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage are our constitutional obligations. We have also committed ourselves in the coalition agreement to implement measures to provide emergency infrastructure for the functioning of institutions relevant to culture and the preservation of cultural heritage, and it is therefore necessary to renew and financially support the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture or the so-called cultural euro. We all know that the area of culture has been severely reduced in both financial and organisational terms in recent years, especially after the end of 2013, when the third cultural euro law expired, and the next in 2014, due to the austerity policy of the past governments, it was not adopted. Despite the upward trend of our government, the Ministry of Culture has failed in the final adoption of the so-called cultural euro, which would, inter alia, provide additional resources for the rehabilitation of the most vulnerable and most important units of cultural heritage and public cultural infrastructure. Therefore, Members of the SMC, with the support of the SD Group and Members of the Desus Group, decided to submit to the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. In doing so, we have been led by the central objective of ensuring equitable development in the field of culture. In the SMC, we believe that the preservation and strengthening of Slovenian cultural identity and accessibility to cultural goods and cultural heritage must be defined in the long term. The objectives of the law resulting from this direction are: to ensure public interest in the field of cultural property intervention and protection, to preserve and protect cultural heritage, to ensure the permanent storage of digital cultural content, to provide urgent public cultural infrastructure for the functioning of public cultural institutions and to maintain and equalise the level of development standards of spatial cultural conditions across local communities and youth cultural activities. Under this law, the Republic of Slovenia would provide an additional EUR 122 million for the period from 2020 to 2026, in accordance with its public financial capabilities in the state budgets. Investments in culture and cultural infrastructure have many multiple positive effects mainly on the economy, tourism or cultural tourism, which is the fastest growing sector of the tourism industry in Europe. The World Tourism Organisation predicts the greatest growth among all forms of tourism. Only enrollment on the Unesca list means a 40% increase in the tourist visit. In the light of all the above facts, and given the recovery of the economy and the better public finances situation, it is our direct responsibility to take care of the area of culture, which, as has been said, has been severely reduced in both financial and other terms in recent years. The adoption of this law will have positive effects at several levels, and it will also solve a long-standing delay in the preservation of culture and in particular cultural heritage, and I propose that you support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of Culture who carries out the current business, Mr Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u4	Dear Mr. President! Honourable Members and Members of the Parliament who are proposing this law! In its opinion, this proposal supports the law, while noting that public funding can be provided taking into account the fundamental principles of public financial planning, in particular the principle of medium-term balance of government budgets and the precautionary principle in the planning and assessment of the volume of revenue and expenditure, and provided that such investments are recognised as a priority in the national development policy programme to be adopted in accordance with the law governing public finances. The Government, as already stated in the explanation for the bill, is aware first of the fact that in recent years, especially after the expiry of the previous similar law and after the expiry of the previous financial perspective of investments in public cultural infrastructure and in the restoration of cultural heritage, with the exception of the most urgent, unavoidable maintenance works, has not been practically possible. After several years, for the first time this year, we launched a minimum tender to co-finance certain investment works in the field of cultural heritage. But a really minimal call that ensures only these most urgent interventions, while solving such problems as the Ljubljana Drama, which is practically collapsing, some castles, some buildings in the area of immovable cultural heritage, as you know, have already been talking at the meetings of the National Assembly about the cases of Viltush, the cases of the Turks and similar castles, as well as the day-to-day collapses and threatens them, as was the subject of yesterday's meeting of the two Committees of the National Assembly, to create the appearance that, in fact, the state as owner is actually waiting for the buildings to be demolished and then it will be possible to remove them. On the other hand, the law touches on certain investments that are developmental in the field of culture. This is the area of digitisation, the area of libraries, bibliobuses, the areas of purchases of national important cultural art collections and other values, which has recently been very topical. Many of the collections they have collected in the previous decades want to disinvest in some way and offer them at other acceptable prices, but still such that they cannot be managed by the Ministry from an integrated budget. That is why, from the point of view of the Ministry, this law is necessary, in fact, a condition that the cultural heritage that we like to talk about, the public cultural infrastructure that exists, not only could we think about building something new in this area, that we can even think about it and rely on it, as stated in the Government's opinion, that the public financial conditions will be such that the law can be realized. I would also like to say this because it is often obvious that in past cases these laws have not been implemented to some extent, let's say they have been realised 30, 40 percent, that this law is better in this case because it allows for a different approach. In the previous year, funds were earmarked in advance for certain projects, which in many cases were not feasible because there was no right to build or anything like that. That's why there was no realisation. While this law builds on a different principle, in particular as regards municipal investment, it is said that only projects with conditions for implementation will be eligible for application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament and Mr Minister, a nice greeting! Although the coalition exists only on paper, the Desus Group continues to carry out its mission in a responsible manner. Let us recall that at the beginning of its mandate, the then Minister for Culture of Desusa mag has sent a proposal for a cultural euro. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. The proposal contained an accurate proposal of the necessary means to remedy the most vulnerable and all of the highest quality units of cultural heritage owned by the State and the municipalities and other legal and natural persons, including the necessary means for their recovery and preservation. At the same time, it contained an overview of all the most urgent investments in the field of culture. Funds were also provided for the construction of infrastructure for Slovenian language in the digital environment, funds were also provided for the preservation of Slovenian film, audiovisual and cinematographic heritage, for the digitisation of archival and book materials, for the permanent storage of digital content and for other emergency programmes in culture. The Minister drew attention to the lack of European funds for cultural heritage, as the former Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not prepare the areas of culture to obtain European funds in the financial perspective 2014-2020. Noting that the law would have financial implications, the law was also opposed by the current Minister of Finance. This was the reason why the law was stuck in the handover of the proposer and the Ministry of Finance. In the first half of 2017, the Ministry of Culture, under the leadership of Minister Persak, again attempted to harmonise the law with coalition partners, but it stopped again. So where does the green light of the government now come from with a proposal that is more than €27 million heavier than its legal predecessor? The draft law of the then Minister, which is already on the third basis of today's proposal, has identified cultural needs which would finance a government proposal of 100 per cent only in buildings owned by the State. Is it just a calculated attempt to collect political points or is it personal offense? Who, then, is responsible for the failure of the cultural euro law to realize it? In the Desus Group, we have always heard about culture and are aware of the importance of cultural heritage, and we will also act in the future. We are aware that the existence of culture is not only a matter of the Committee on Culture, but primarily of the Government, which is responsible for providing the means to preserve and develop the identity of the people of Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we will listen with interest to the argument in the course of the debate and finally vote at our own discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have before us a law that has survived for 14 years in its previous version. It was a joint commitment of more than two thirds of MEPs and Members to improve the infrastructure and programme situation of Slovenian culture. It was created by the Ministry of Culture and was then put into the legislative procedure by a group of Members and Members, with Sam Bevk, the first to be signed. From 1999 to 2013, on the basis of the so-called Cultural Euro Act, an additional €95 million was provided in state budgets for Slovenian culture for investment in public institutions, libraries, amateur culture and cultural networks. The amount represents more than half of the resources allocated to culture today by the state budget. Since the historical memory is relatively short, during the period of validity of the Law on Cultural Tolar or Cultural Euro there were greater investments in the National Gallery, the presence of Ljubljana Opera, Modern Gallery, Slovenian Ethnographic Museum, Restoration Centre, renovation of the old hall of SNG Maribor, Puppet Theatre Maribor, Landscape and Study Library Murska Sobota, Historical Archive Celje, Film Studio Viba Film, renovation of the Slovenian Philharmonic, construction of libraries in Velenj and Kranj, and at the Ravnah and Museum of Slovenian Film Players in Divaca. Followed by successful projects such as the Jable Castle at Mengš, the Delavska barracks in Jesenica, the church in Olim, the church of St. Spirit in Črnomlje, Ptujska Castle, Strmol Castle, Turjak Castle, Tonovc Castle, Piran City Core and St. Jurija, Dominican Monastery on Ptuj, Ptujska Gora, synagogue in Maribor, cod core in Kropa, Stanjel, castles in Podseda, Metlika and Ormož, Base 20 in Kočevsko Rog, monument in Dražgoša, Hospital Franja, memorial houses of Trubar, Gregorčič and Prežich. In view of the importance for Slovenian cultural space and the wider scope of the previous mandate of the Group of Social Democrats, we have advocated an extension of the programme in which we would spend some more than 56 million euros in the area of culture in five years. Unfortunately, the proposal did not come across the understanding of the largest parliamentary group at that time, but the opposition did not. This has created a gap, a gap, which today also reflects the fact that the culture of public financial recovery feels in a very limited part, as it would if the law actually did come to life. In this mandate, it indicated that the law would be adopted, however, since the proposal had remained there since the first half of the mandate at the Ministry of Culture, unfortunately because of the negative position of the public treasury administrators. We have therefore joined the parliamentary initiative in the Group of Social Democrats. We believe that it can make important progress not only in rebuilding buildings, but in particular in improving the conditions for the cultural participation of the population and the population. The law also follows technological progress in the area compared with the previous one, in particular by stressing the importance of information and digitisation of language, heritage, archives, music and literary material. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will propose further consideration of the use of cultural euro funds to public institutions for the purchase of equipment, not just the regulation of basic spatial conditions. Without the possibility of updating obsolete and defective equipment of the main purpose of the law, this is the preservation and strengthening of Slovenian cultural identity and accessibility to cultural goods and cultural heritage, it will not be possible to achieve our opinion. Respected and respected! As a representative body, we are obliged to create the conditions for a coherent civil and cultural development of Slovenia. We are also obliged to care for the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage, and we will therefore support the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u9	The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u10	A nice welcome to all together, in particular to young visitors on their way out, which I hope will be more cultural than this call from the National Assembly. From our first point of view, we heard that we were in the Seven, in the White Landscape we would say on lipstick. From another point of view, if I followed him now, I would start to point out what we created in culture by the people who make Levica, in most cases without state money. And I could start with Violeta and some documentary from my colleague Mate, and I wrote some book, etc. But unlike the predecessors, there's a point of view. I'm on it. In Levi, we will support the marriage in the first reading. Since 2009, culture has lost more than 50 million, additional resources are necessary, otherwise we will push more cultural workers and workers into poverty, we will lose important heritage, and culture will become less accessible, affecting the cultural and spiritual level of all peoples and peoples of Slovenia. Of course, important questions arise. First, whether there will be a vote in this mandate on this bill and, secondly, what will be the actual realisation of the funds under this law. The government emphasises that they will only be provided with a quote, “principles of the medium-term balance of the country's budgets and the precautionary principle in the planning and assessment of the volume of revenue and expenditure and on the condition that such investments are recognised as priorities in the national development policy programme”. End of quote. If I translate this and say it in my own language in human language, the money for culture will be, if the finance minister opens the scrotum, not entirely, because the fiscal rule forces us to permanently tighten the belt. In the area of culture, we have drawn attention to three key problems in this mandate in Levika. First, the poor social situation of self-employed people in culture, secondly, the play of non-governmental supported culture, thirdly, inadequate protection of cultural property. All these problems are a total lack of budgetary resources for culture. In any adoption of the budget or the budget rebalancing, we have also proposed an increase in the resources for culture on the most critical items, but none of our amendments have been adopted in this area or in any other area. In fact, the area of culture, with the exception of certain exceptions in this mandate, is dealt only with by the Left. That is the objective assessment of the situation. The coalition assigned the Ministry to Desus, who does not have very clear views on the regulation of the cultural sphere, since we have never heard much from Deusus in the DZ. Both Minister Bizjak Mlakar and Minister Peršak were unsuccessful in their work. Of course, all responsibility is not theirs. Of course, the Ministry is also a large number of officials and other employees. But if we can draw the line, we have to say, the Ministry of Culture is weak, weakly operational and overly intertwined with different stakeholders and individuals. In addition to the lack of resources, cultural areas face uneven development and under-accessibility and inclusion of the wider population. The tightening of neoliberal policy has pushed too many cultural workers into permeable working relationships, making it impossible for them to live a decent life and quality of work. More than half of the self-employed in culture do not reach minimum wage and one third live below the threshold of severe poverty. I'll do it again. More than half of the self-employed in culture do not reach minimum wage and one third live below the threshold of severe poverty. In recent years, public institutions have also not been adequately co-financed by the founders, which often do not provide the necessary coverage of the costs of salaries and general costs, and the programming resources remain below pre-crisis levels despite high economic growth. The tightening of the cultural belt must, of course, stop. This means at least restoring cultural resources to 2.2% of the budget, as was the case in 2009. Among the countries that have raised cultural budgets even in times of crisis are Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Malta, Belgium, Austria, because they realize that culture is a condition of quality living, that they raise all other spheres of society and that it is not a cost, but it has positive multiplier economic effects, from a strictly economic point of view. Without culture, for example, it is not possible to think about the development of a quality tourist offer that was discussed during this reference. Cultural policy must support the needs of the entire population and strive to be as involved as possible in its creation. It must be possible to develop an evenly cultural and professional culture, both institutional and independent. For its development, accessibility and quality, appropriate conditions at national and regional levels must be ensured. Culture and art must not be subjected to the partisan interests of every single local or state policy, not left to the market. That is why we are committed in Levica to stable public funding and we are opposed to privatisation and commercialisation of culture. We want to preserve the diversity of cultural producers and create normal working conditions for cultural workers and workers who will receive fair pay for their work and also have social security guaranteed. As I said in the introduction, the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture will be supported in the first reading in Levica. Because I have time, two more comments on the position of this city. There was an interview recently with Mrs Colležnik, who said that a civilization without art was barbaric. We are in this sense quite a barbarian civilization. In the history of this country, we like to talk about infrastructure. Everyone brags about what kind of infrastructure he's made, let's say the previous position of SD. However, two things are forgotten: infrastructure costs and infrastructure needs to be filled with content. "Ablast" has not been smart enough to do this. From some of the positions we're listening to, the coalition only exists on paper. What you're doing right now, and the excuses you're going through, it's not childish, it's infantile. And we no longer need such infalile cultures in Slovenia. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished minister, nice greeting! Culture is highly undernourished. The law we have today is a tangible prospect for her better times. The Act on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture in the Slovenian area is not new, since it was initially a law on cultural tolary between 1998 and 2013. During the entire period of validity of the law, culture was richer by almost €95 million and resources were spent on many urgent and successful projects. What projects were there, we heard in the SD position, we wouldn't repeat them. But do you imagine what the cultural image of Slovenia would look like without these investments, and if we add European funds, which in past perspectives have helped to restore our cultural heritage, cultural homes, libraries, galleries, museums, youth centres and cultural societies, NGOs in the field of culture and more? Without the above-mentioned financial injections, this image would be truly claustrophobic and sad. And that's what she's going to be now if we don't make a thorough change. Since 2009, we have seen an enormous decline in investment and development investments in this area. With the proposed law, however, we want to ensure that the most urgent fires are put out first and then evenly developed in the future so as to ensure greater access to cultural goods through the implementation of cultural programmes, for which additional financial resources are urgently needed. We cannot implement them in decaying castles and cultural homes without adequate technical, information and digital equipment and without museum and gallery exhibits. That I don't talk about the working conditions of the people who do this at all. We have a digital age ahead of us, museums are interactive, people have different demands and desires, the world is changing and I am changing with it. This brings us to the core objectives of this proposal for a cultural euro law: the preservation and strengthening of Slovenian cultural identity and the long-term definition of accessibility to quality contemporary cultural content, the preservation of the cultural heritage of Slovenian national boundaries and their placement in cultural supply. Given the recovery of the economy and the better fiscal situation, it is our indisputable responsibility to take care of the cultural field, which has, as has been said, been severely reduced in both financial and organisational terms over the past period. And if we are in an economy that allows us a better public financial situation, let us add a well-known fact: culture is an immense economic potential. Investments in culture and cultural infrastructure have measurable multiplier positive effects and cultural tourism is a big and very untapped opportunity in our beautiful, green and culturally diverse country. If we provide an additional €122 million 600 000 in state budgets in accordance with this law between 2020 and 2026, we have greatly improved the opportunity to take advantage of these opportunities. Creating conditions for the coherent, civilisational and cultural development of Slovenia and ensuring the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage are our constitutional obligations. It is also one of our coalition commitments. Since it is also imperative to adopt the bill before us today in order to fulfil these conditions, we will gladly tear it down in the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u13	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u14	Nice greeting, fellow Members, Minister! The proposed law, which we are considering, is therefore intended to provide additional funds for the Republic of Slovenia for certain emergency cultural programmes. The funds are thus intended to rehabilitate the most vulnerable and most important cultural heritage units, to regulate basic spatial conditions for certain central public institutions in the field of culture, to support the development of modern library services in the traveling libraries, to maintain and restore Slovenian film, music, ballet and dance heritage and to sustain digital cultural content, to build the infrastructure for Slovenian language in the digital environment, to preserve the level of development standards of spatial conditions and equipment of local culture, which is very important and to buy cultural heritage and contemporary art. In order to finance the programmes, additional funds totalling EUR 122.6 million in accordance with the public financial capabilities are to be provided to the specific item of the Ministry responsible for Culture in the period 2020-2026. Let us little recall how the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture has been implemented so far. The provisions of the law have never been fully implemented, as the municipalities were generally unable to guarantee their financial obligations, and there is real participation in the implementation of their projects. Nevertheless, the effects of the law are not negligible. There was a whole type of cultural infrastructure in the country, and at the same time a set of proposals were made that were considered necessary. The new law will also oblige the Government at all levels to make greater use of the opportunity offered and to implement projects as soon as possible, especially if European funds are also activated. Otherwise, it is necessary to start a new investment cycle, which was largely discontinued after 2008, as investments have also died to a good degree. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that a longer-term investment plan should be prepared, which will be realistically assessed and then implemented. While the proposed law brings positive solutions, there are several issues and dilemmas that are open, they are largely in the face of numbers, as they are particularly low in the field of local communities. We will not oppose the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Dragan Matić has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. First, I would respond to what was heard in the presentation of the opinions of the members of the groups, and then I will try to narrow down some of the points of content that relate to the law itself. In view of the nomination of the representative of the Desus Group on possible motives, or of some of the political points that our group is supposed to have in relation to this law, this must be strongly rejected at the outset. What's this all about? This law was provided for in the Coalition Agreement and it should be pointed out that until now its predecessors have been in the form of sent-off laws. In this mandate, the Ministry of Culture has been tasked with carrying out this as a government law, which inevitably runs into interdepartmental coordination and meets the Ministry of Finance, which has always been, and this has to be fair, quite macho. Both in this mandate and in previous mandates. In this regard, we can be completely honest with each other, and it is clear that there was no understanding. Not so much as talking about these kinds of intervention laws, but about systemic laws. For example, the introduction of a specific fund for the restoration of cultural heritage or a monumental pension, where it would be in principle that everyone living from cultural tourism living from a cultural monument, every innkeeper, each innkeeper, would give at least a share of their profits to the restoration of this cultural monument. This principle cannot be applied to us in any way. Although it is very well established in the neighbourhood, in Croatia, in Europe, France, everywhere, we have this eternal mantra, that this is an integral budget, that this cannot be done. And that's what we've been listening to in a series of mandates so far. That is why it is not so much to condemn the Ministry of Culture that, at the end of this mandate, it has not been possible to bring this law down through the government procedure, but we are using this similar mechanism as our predecessors, and we are investing this as a parliamentary law, which is legitimate, and I believe that all of the coalition's parliamentary groups agree on this, and I believe that even in the opposition, at least as I hear it, there will be no opposition. However, I believe that there are many Members who have a sense of cultural heritage and who are a true patriot to support this law. Regardless of all our nation, it is based on culture, cultural heritage and language that this law allows the national identity of the Slovenians, which is based on culture, to continue to be preserved. With regard to the law itself, when it was said by a fellow Member of the Desus Group that this was all before the time of Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, however, it would have to be noted that there were some differences that we had already pointed out at that time. Once again, it must be made clear that we did not oppose this law in the parliamentary group, but we have warned of certain shortcomings or certain difficulties. In fact, this law did not come into coalition coordination until the end, because it was already stuck in the Inter-Resort. What was the problem with this marriage? The problem was the one also directed by Minister Peršak. This draft law provided for a specific list of cultural monuments or cultural sites to which they would invest. Here we are again at this old mystery to which the Minister has pointed, and it is that the funds were already linked in advance to the restoration of an object of cultural heritage, and then, in large cases, they were not realized for various reasons. Compared to the then law, this law, which we have today, is better because it does not provide for a specific list, but that, on the basis of precisely defined criteria, it will be assessed which project has real potential to be successfully completed. These criteria, as it is said, are the completion of the project, the complete project documentation, then the share of co-financing, then the threat of the monument, this must already be at the start of the precondition, and the known purpose of what will eventually be when this is restored. Unfortunately, we have a lot of these cases when we have a restored cultural monument, which is empty, without function and unfortunately failing. That's the most important thing. For every investment that we launch, either with integral or with European funds, we need to know already when we go to it, what we will eventually have, whether it will be a facility that will be in use, which in some way will also be able to maintain at least some of its own revenue, at least running costs, if not already an investment. Unfortunately, in the proposal of Minister Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, it did not appear that it was going in this direction and in this logic. That's what we've been alerting you to. For example, there was a Viba film in Piran on this list, which the country had sold for quite some time. Also on this list were castles offered only a few years earlier by the state for long-term rent or for sale, Dornava, Brežice, Gradac Castle, Negova. It seems that the country does not have a cultural monument management strategy at the time and also today. When a minister arrives, he decides to offer something for sale or for long-term rent. When someone else comes back who has other views on such a problem, they would invest everything in an unselective, scattered way without some clear vision of what they really want to do with it. In fact, the state should have a strategy, which of the cultural monuments itself will restore, what is that zero value that the state must keep in its management, owned, and must unconditionally invest in this, where it will seek out some strategic partners and what matters it intends to sell. Cultural monuments, if they are owned by someone who is responsible, who can manage them in a way that cultural monuments themselves will have something and that the local community will also have one of these, I think this is one of the options that, unfortunately, has not yet experienced any serious epilogue or in this area, should be considered how to proceed. The failure can only be definitively stopped if the object is functional and has an administrator who implements a programme that also generates sufficient revenue. As I said, all of these lists were not visible, and today's law introduces some other criteria and is therefore more acceptable to our Group of Members. The fact that the situation in the area of cultural heritage is worrying is more than clear. From 2002 to today, 830 units of cultural heritage have been lost. In order to halt this trend of disappearance and loss of heritage, we must focus on integrated and complex conservation measures of the most important and most endangered cultural heritage, and we must also bear in mind this broader aspect of which I have spoken. This is the first set that talks about cultural heritage.The second set, is very important, is the regulation of basic spatial conditions for some central public institutions in the field of culture. The public cultural infrastructure they have in the management of public institutions in the field of culture is in very poor condition. In recent years of the crisis, the country has focused only on providing funds for wages and for the programme. But that's much less than pay. For investment maintenance, however, virtually nothing. Every average citizen also understands that if you do not invest in maintaining your own house for a number of years, then you will eventually be hit by a very thorough and very expensive investment. Ignoring cultural infrastructure is something that will cost us very dearly in the future. The working conditions in the premises in which public institutions operate are inadequate, in some cases also endangering the performance of activities. The rooms are wet, hygienic and safety inappropriate, the walls cracked, the equipment is outdated, worn out, partially destroyed, etc. I wouldn't talk about Drama, probably Comrade Tabakovic will talk more about this topic. I'd rather talk about the archives. Archives are a specific problem. I know this firsthand because I've been in the archives for a number of years. It's not just about cultural infrastructure. This is the cultural infrastructure that is in charge of protecting the cultural monument, which is the archival material. It's the DNA of the people's records. We have a terrible backlog here, as far as this cultural infrastructure is concerned. We have 78 kilometers, running kilometers of archival material in archives, and over 40 kilometers, we have it on the ground, under impossible conditions, many times with the creators of the archival material unreposited, where it is threatened and is about to disappear or fail. Ignoring archival deposits is something that is the most outrageous thing that is happening in our country. I had the opportunity to visit many countries that were sometimes in the so-called socialist lager. For example, in the Czech Republic, over 50 archival new buildings have since the time of socialism, so far we have not produced any archival new buildings. Not one. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia is located in the Baroque Palace. What's with the statistics, the micro-climate situation, the working conditions, I'm not going to explain. The second largest regional archive of the historical archive of Ljubljana is located on the magistrate. Also, the building that comes from the Middle Ages, where it is not a question of all kinds of material, when it will collapse, but the question is only when will it come to a strong enough earthquake. These are the realities we are facing when we are talking about cultural infrastructure. Speaking of museums, we're the only country where the Natural History Museum doesn't have its own building. He's shuddering along with the National Museum. Colleagues and colleagues, if we think about it, all I'm talking about is national disgrace. Here, unless we do something serious about out-of-budget resources, systemic resources, because obviously the integrated budget is too small if we don't even think about increasing the integrated budget to reach at least the sustainable level achieved in 2009, when 200 million was available for culture, then we can find with full responsibility that the Slovenian bit or culture and language is poorly written. What will this cultural euro be used for? In order to support the development of modern library services, traveling booklets, I do not need to explain. It takes six Bible buses to provide library services to residents from more remote places. Then maintain the relationship of Slovenian film, music, ballet and dance heritage and permanent storage of digital cultural content. We are talking about digitisation of film material and it must be pointed out that we cannot finance it with European money, but it is meant to be integrated national funds. And in this area, we are far behind. We know that the film is a highly non-existent material, that it will fail under inappropriate conditions in depots and must be digitised so that it can be secured and also accessible to the public. It is also important to note the rich musical and dance heritage that is currently scattered across different institutions and it would make sense to link this to at least a virtual collection which would constitute a single information window to be accessible here for research and also for the rest of the public. Then digitisation of archival material, without which it will not be possible to implement a directive on the re-use of public sector information, which also includes the re-use of data by cultural heritage institutions, is called libraries and archives. So that's more than justifiable. Then there's this very important thing that I've been reminding you of over and over and over and over and over again. This is the construction of infrastructure for Slovenian language in the digital environment. According to the European Centre for Excellence for Language Resources, we are lagging behind in the development of language resources and technologies. If we do not invest in them, the proportion of Slovenian in the digital environment will fall. What this means both for the economy and for the development of the Slovenian language, I do not think there is a need to put too much emphasis on it. It is necessary to develop and upgrade tools for voice communication with computers and the Internet, speech synthesis, speech recognition, online automated information search tools, to accelerate the development of computer processing technologies, text interpretations and communication tools for people with special needs. Without this in the world, Slovenian has no chance of survival or will become a museum language. If in the future we have to talk to domestic appliances and cars in English, but not in Slovenian, then the new generations will slowly lose the feeling that Slovenia is a modern language in which in the future an intellectual can communicate at all, because there will be no individual expressions in Slovenian, and in the future, as I said, it will become a kind of language that will be a kuriosity or museum specialty. The sixth objective is to maintain and equalise the level of development standards of spatial conditions, equipment of amateur culture by local communities and youth cultural activities. There's no way to lose words here either. We advocate that culture is as accessible as possible in all parts of the country, and we know that the situation is similar as before when I described the situation regarding cultural infrastructure. The same applies to regional cultural centres, youth cultural centres, cultural societies and their halls, which have been neglected for many years. And seven more sets, buy back objects of cultural heritage and contemporary art. We know that it has not been for many years, but I think that this time can be measured in decades, that the funds for buying up museums and galleries are so small that it is simply not possible for all galleries and museums to provide these important functions. There are a lot of art on the market at very affordable prices, so with additional resources for this purpose we could buy national important projects to complement and enrich museum collections. Current items sold appear on auctions or are privately owned and are intended for sale on the international market. If the museum or gallery does not have sufficient funds available, then this item is a painting or some other art may be irreparably lost for Slovenian national collections. There is also a number of years of national damage going on here, which we are not aware of very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think the law needs to be adopted. The reason for this is more than enough. 122 million 600 000 in seven years is not some kind of special money, I hope to say, regardless of all possible interpretations that have been heard even in the media, if what Members are now putting pressure on taxpayers before the end of their term of office. If this is not some well-founded investment for the future, then I don't know which other investment could be more justified. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u17	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! When I listen to Mr Matic, it seems to me that he has forgotten for four years that he has been sitting in this government, that he has presided over the Committee on Culture, that he has a Prime Minister, that he has had a finance minister, that he has a Parliamentary President, that is, all the instruments that make the law or greater financial resources for culture long overdue. For the last two budgets, I have personally tabled two amendments, each 10 million a year for the restoration of cultural heritage. They were both quickly rejected. That is why I see that, in addition to increasing cracks in our cultural heritage, there are increased cracks in this law among coalition partners. I will not defend the Minister for Culture, but I am sure that if SMC and the Minister of Finance gave money to the Minister for Culture to devote more money to rebuilding various monuments. That's why I'm curious, Mr. Minister, whether you didn't want to withdraw this list from your marriage, or whether you didn't want to modify it, or whether you didn't want to accept any amendments, that your law had failed, as it were, already prepared by your predecessor. Were you not cooperative? I now see this law as an election campaign for Mr Matic, who simply forgot that he has been sitting in a government for almost four years that did not want to increase funds for culture. In New Slovenia, we will support this law regardless, although we doubt that it is best prepared. Why? Because we support the restoration of cultural heritage, we support culture, because we are well aware of how important it is for the Slovenian people, for the preservation of our heritage, for the development of language and so on. On a proposal from the European Commission, April 2017, the European Parliament announced 2018 as the year of cultural heritage under the motto Our Heritage, where the past meets the future. I am sure that the cultural heritage and culture is the one that best marks the Slovenian nation, which allowed us to also realize that we need our country, that we can keep all of this going, develop, and that somehow marks us the most. We also need dictionaries, the production of dictionaries, the support of an institution that cares for Slovenian language, because we constantly have new phenomena, new expressions, and if we do not immediately find the corresponding language in the Slovenian language, the corresponding professional dictionaries, then our language or the future of our language may be compromised. I therefore agree that more money must be devoted to this area as well. Furthermore, the restoration of cultural heritage objects. I kept a letter from a newspaper saying: “The prisoner manages the teeth of time, no one’s state monument, the pavilion of Jož Murka... ” and so on. Not to mention Plečnik's stadium, the Church of St. Michaela in Bar and other important monuments, the Dornava Castle, to which I have repeatedly pointed, the Studenice in the municipality of Poljčane, is such an important monument that the congregation itself cannot restore. The invitation to tender failed. And the Trate Castle, which is also owned by the Ministry of Labour, if I am not mistaken, and in which the enthusiasts are housed with the Museum of Madness, but no funds are provided and the real destination of this castle. We regret several times that we have restored certain objects of cultural heritage, and then we do not find the right programs to even support these objects. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that we know in advance what we will continue to develop in this facility what programmes we will develop. Finally, it is a private partnership, and a state-owned private partnership can be a good example of the resolution of such facilities. Tourism in Slovenia is increasing, and it is therefore the cultural heritage objects that can greatly help to increase the tourist offer, of course if we know to make the most of it, to continue to restore it and to devote the right programmes to these facilities. There's another problem I'd like to point out. It is often the case that certain objects of cultural heritage are privately owned, that the state lays down the conditions for renewal, and that it does not provide for funds or tax reliefs. Therefore, owners often cannot restore these objects, the facilities fail until they collapse and then we can remove them. So it's not a root, but not a stick, so it's an appropriate control. Indeed, it is difficult to punish someone if we do not restore something, if we do not help him or give him tax breaks, but if we do not give him some of the necessary resources to rebuild such monuments. We all know how expensive it is to rebuild an old building so that they can rarely afford it. Yet this is the legacy of our ancestors with some story that would suggest that it be restored. To give my colleagues some more time. In Novi Slovenija we will support this law, but I cannot go beyond the criticism I express to my colleague Matić and to the SMC party. If we gave more money for culture to rebuild our cultural heritage, we wouldn't be in such a mess right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u19	Replica, representative of proposer Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u20	Mrs Ludmila Novak, because I understand that it is pre-election time and that you are also pre-election actors, but it would be good for the cameras to have a precise choice of words. You said I was sitting in the government. I'm an MP. I'm not in the government. I am a member of the coalition and have often been critical of this government's ministry, both to the Ministry of Culture and to the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, it would be good to remain correct despite pre-election time. As far as numbers are concerned, we also need to be precise and clarify this. The first proposal, drafted by former Minister Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, consisted of 185 million funds. That's how it was supposed to be. It was later reduced and in the latter version slightly increased, but it is not at all that the funds are now being increased compared to the original proposal, as you claimed. I have to fix you here, too. As far as the procedure is concerned, when it comes to the parliamentary bench, I've already explained. This was the ambition of the Ministry of Culture to bring in as a government law. If we had an agreement at the level of the coalition that this should be carried out as a bill of departure, it would probably be earlier in a procedure where, as we ourselves know, it would also be easier from the point of view of cross-cutting coordination. But it's a reflection on another level. I wouldn't comment on that any further, and I wouldn't hand it over. So much in explanation and a little in explanation to all those accompanying this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u21	Wait. There's no replica to the replica. He took the replica, which is unusual for the proponent to take the replica, because he can take any time, but he did say the replica and he limited himself to three minutes. Gradually, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u22	I apologize to Mr Matić for his inaccuracies. But we all know that I thought you were a member of the government's party, president of the Committee on Culture in Parliament, so you had a wide open opportunity to secure this law and more money before. And if someone's doing an election campaign, it's exactly what you do with this law when you impose on a government that comes later.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u23	Since it was an integral part of this procedural apology, we will accept it and move on. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mrs Janja Slug and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear and venerable all present! Culture in our society, even I think, is very neglected and malnourished. I am therefore pleased to explain that despite all the perceptions that have taken place in this law or in its predecessors – two laws – today we are considering the law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. We have also heard from our delegation's DeSUS report on this law that our Culture Minister, Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, has already passed the Cultural Euro Act, but that the law has not been supported by the Government and the Ministry, including the SMC, but we would not lose words about it. It's been heard a few times today. The new Minister, Mr Tone Peršak, has also tried to bring the law through the procedure and has failed himself. It has broken down at all these levels as it did with his predecessor, Mrs Juliani Bizjak Mlakar. The law that we are considering today was tabled by Dr Dragan Matić at the end of the term, also signed by some members from Desus, and I will be happy if this law is adopted. However, there is a fear that we are at the end of our term of office and that regular meetings will no longer be unsuccessful here. I would also like to point out that the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia has pointed out that the problem of providing funding for culture, in particular for cultural heritage and proposing a substantial increase of funds for local communities, in particular for point 1 which is in the works, is the restoration of the most endangered and most important cultural heritage units, and for point 2, this is the provision of basic spatial conditions for certain central public institutions in the field of culture. I myself agree with this view of the Community of Communities and support the provision of more resources in this area, and I am pleased that it is moving in this direction. There is something else I would like to say about the treatment or attitude of cultural heritage. In our society, in our country, I believe that this relationship is all but appropriate. Important and precious objects fail and are left behind, in particular, fates that lead them to an ever-increasing decline, that they eventually collapse when they fall, and we will remove them, and they will all be wiped out. Somehow I feel like we're really just waiting for these objects to collapse themselves and then they won't worry about their maintenance. In doing so, I would like to draw particular attention to certain objects, such as the Viltuš Castle in the Municipality of Selnica ob Drava, although I come from Ruš because it is a truly beautiful architectural pearl, which has been falling for years and years. A denationalisation request was also lodged for him, but the beneficiaries did not prove their nationality and was therefore not returned. In the meantime, the castle collapsed, and the vandals defiled it, robbed it, and later a sponge appeared in this building, in a way that man cannot understand, but so it is. There have been some rehabilitations in the meantime, but the facility is still falling apart, and I really don't think that's right. The same is true of Ricky's villa in Bled. If you ever visit Bled, you see this sad image of this beautiful villa, which was privately owned and, of course, this owner has done nothing; now I have no information whether it is still private or state. Something should be done, because I think this facility is a real shame to Bled. There are other objects, Mrs Ludmila Novak has also reminded them of them, so she would only join in and not waste time because there are others who would like to say something about this law. I would also like to say that cultural heritage is important for every nation, so it is also important for the Slovenes, especially since we are a small nation. To conclude, I am pleased that we are considering the law, and I would like to see the procedure carried out to the end and to adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u25	Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Prepare Mr. Joseph Horvath and Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. I am glad to see that we are finally all in agreement on this law and that there is somehow a promise of support for it. I think that we are the only ones here, that the content for us as a nation is very important and refers to just the things that have proven extremely problematic over the decades, and we have once more, on the other hand, less successfully addressed. Let me say that the crack mentioned by colleague Ludmila between the SMC Group and the Ministry of Culture has been ringing virtually since the beginning of this mandate. We've never hidden this in the SMC Group. The members of the SMC Culture Committee have always tried to make a difference in the area of culture, in the area covered by the Ministry of Culture, and perhaps in a different way than was the case. The law in question is one of the ones we SMC Members have been working for since the beginning of the mandate. Unfortunately, however, there was no listening to the President of the current Minister so that we could somehow reconcile ourselves with the content contained in this law. Our dilemmas went in the most direction, as already colleague Matić pointed out today, that the first criterion for the allocation of some intervention funds is the threat to the cultural heritage itself, but of course it is of course very important mainly the content. Instead of investing in walls and only walls, for the first time, you never get to the end, the second time, even when it's restored, then it goes down if it doesn't have the right content. This was exactly the stumbling block of the draft which we received at the tables for the time of Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. For when we examined that content at the time, we somehow did not understand the criteria for the projects that were selected there in that context, namely, in that draft law. Since somehow this key of choice in the SMC Group has not been understood, we have repeatedly addressed this issue to the then Minister. I will now mention her answer after memory, but I think that she is close enough to the exact quote that came at that time as an explanation from her side in the SMC Group, namely, that whoever came to her, and he is inside. I'm sorry, this is not a criterion for me that would include millions of investments in some kind of draft law. Because we were not able to reach these criteria, and because this was the only explanation we came up with, we tried to change the contents of this law. This effort is on our tables today. I think that's the right approach now. Mate Matić has already explained what the approach is now, what the criteria are and how it will be chosen. But these criteria exist and will be all the same and appropriate and will be known in advance, and this is the right approach that we think should be used in the SMC. Once again, to go into reconstruction of something that will not have predetermined content to live on, in our view, the object itself does not make sense. And that's the content that has to be highlighted. During this term, we have seen quite a few successful renovations that are all filled with content. An excellent example of this is, say, the Villa Vipolje, is the Town of Strmol, etc. I can say that even in Celje we have excellently renovated castles, I am talking about the Old Castle, where the fruit of this work is also reflected in the visit, but I am also talking about the Lower Castle in Celje, which is perfectly filled with contents. I think that this is a unique case of reconstruction, despite the fact that it is being reconstructed in part, European funds are being used successfully. I think that's a good example of how to make this happen again. Of course, there is always a problem when local communities simply do not have enough financial resources to deal with it more and more. Rakushev's mill is still the pain that I believe could be solved by appropriate intervention years ago. Unfortunately, the situation is now as it is. But that's exactly what has to teach us to move forward so that things like this don't happen anymore. Then there are also completely my own stories of existing cultural institutions, which we all know are in what condition they are in, that I do not lose words about the Ljubljana Drama, which I myself, when visiting the Celejan Theatre in Ljubljana's Drama, was able to convince myself of its condition. Also, I must say that a more extensive renovation took place in 2008, when the municipality rebuilt the roof, which is not a small financial supply, it also acquired a small stage, because the cell theatre had previously worked in really impossible conditions when the big stage was above a small stage and it was at the same time impossible to use both spaces. But these are not the only investments that would be so badly needed in the celery house right now. I'm talking about extended sanitation, prolonged building furniture, electrical installations that are practically deadly, and so on. Cultural institutions throughout our country are in a similar state. He also mentioned archival material. I also have personal experience with this, and I know that archival material or documentary material is, while still in use, the one that really comes last in line and that many houses don't get to edit it or have no relation to it. I think there is a great deal of people here, given that there is no financial means for these purposes at the moment, and it is the people who have made the difference, whether a particular house treats this material properly, that is aware of its importance, regulates it as necessary, hands it over to the competent archive or not. Even in this area, I think the corresponding financial injection could substantially change matters. We are aware of this in the SMC, and so is this law. However, let me say that we are committed, and we have also put this in our new programme, to introduce a tax relief of up to 5% of the annual income to invest for these purposes. We think that this is the right way, and we think that this is at least a small incentive that would somehow help improve the situation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u27	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mrs Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for culture, it is time for cultural creation, it is time for cultural enjoyment and it is time for a parliamentary debate on the financing of the necessary programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. Is this time for a parliamentary debate properly set now that we no longer have a government, when Parliament is practically just before the dissolution, a question to which voters and voters will answer. As I recall, Nova Slovenija was not invited to co-sign this bill, so obviously some in this country own their own culture. When we tabled concrete proposals last autumn, specific amendments to the 2018 and 2019 budget, we were overtaken by the signatories under this law. Perhaps not those who were not in the hall when we voted on the amendment. What a duplicity! I am pleased to have the Minister here, and to invite him to the floor, given that the selected architecture is part of Jožet Plečnik, which the master created, we know, in Prague and in Ljubljana, and the Slovenian and Czech Ministry of Culture will be working hard to enter the UNESCO World Heritage List right this year, I am interested, Mr Minister, where we are. I have here, as far as Master Plečnik is concerned, a very bad experience, and I will say it here for the last time in this term. I've worked my ass off, and thank you, Minister, for giving me your support. I was trying for one very simple thing – to put the directional link between the church of Plečnik, this is a monument registered. That the Slovenian public will not think that the Member of Parliament can do anything. The MP cannot influence the government, nor the Ministry, in order to set up a single directive. And that, be careful, in Plečnik's year. So much for the relationship to culture, to Master Plečnik and so on. But I will support this marriage, my colleagues and my colleagues in my first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u29	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bacič and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Please welcome Mr. Toneth Persak. Colleagues and colleagues! I would not discuss the importance of culture on my own today, because I think we have discussed this subject many times and talked about the need to fund culture. I've done quite a bit on my own at this point, so what I'd say today would be almost superfluous. As regards procedural matters, i.e. the whole procedure in this mandate, I must say once again what has already been written in our position. We had a programme for the cultural euro, and the ministry rejected it in the hands of the SMC. I will read because I simply cannot do otherwise because I see that some do not want to believe what Dr. Marble has answered Mr Mahnic's question about this cultural euro. Dr. Marble said: “That is why I do not think it makes sense to continue to establish a list of projects for unrealistic financing dynamics. There is a third part of the budget... In our view, there is sufficient reason not to adopt or extend the law.” When Mr Mahnic protested a little, said Dr. Marble, "These intentions are meaningful and also in other areas and need to be weighed between infrastructures, roads, railways, more money for education and so on, in short, the areas are very large." And this was the position of the Ministry of Finance or SMC until one month ago when Dr. Matić introduced this law, which was a continuation of this thinking. I must say that the problem is that, in fact, today is in some way, not just in this law, but in any other case, the last moment with the left hand of 125 million, with the right hand of 180 million, that is probably something that I'm actually wondering whether this is really some act of state-of-the-art action in these last two months before our dissolution. However, I would like to mention the third fact. Because we have even agreed with the SMC that the Youth Book should be given from the list of companies they will sell, because all publishers and Slovenian writers agreed that the Youth Book should be saved because it is a channel for selling the Slovenian book, no matter what publication it appears in. But that was the government's position, that was even the position of the Committee on Culture in the National Assembly, but nothing happens at the Ministry of Economy. And that's where the matter lies. Our sales experts will be happy to sell to you, and we have no guarantee, and I stress that both the Government and the National Assembly have concluded the other way around. Who's the government now is on its way out, and she'll say she can't do it anymore. [[…]] But until today or yesterday, when Dr. Cerar resigned, this point was not made, which should have been in spite of our agreement. Of course, I have two more things to say. Some like to criticise this cultural mandate, but I must say that in this mandate it was achieved that in 2022 the Slovenian book will be an honorary guest of the Frankfurt Book Fair. It was achieved that in 2021 in Bologna the Slovenian Youth Book will be an honorary guest of the Bologna Fair. I simply point out that it is not true that nothing is happening in the cultural field or that nothing is contributing to the current situation. Not the rest, but so much, because this is some point that some consciously miss or forget, and I wanted to point out. As far as my approach is concerned, I don't have to sign it, like some people do. I am joining New Slovenia here, and I will vote in favour, because I think the matter is necessary, regardless of the burden on the new government, but I only point out that some of the same cultural behaviour is not fully followed, and I say that I do not have these customs and will absolutely support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u31	Replica, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I must now respond to these statements regarding the first cultural euro law, which has now been stated once again that the SMC ministry has opposed. I told you what was the main problem with the contents of that marriage. The problem was that individual projects were listed without criteria under which they were included in the law itself. And that's exactly what the then finance minister's response was. It is true that there are no evident criteria and that we do not know whether all the conditions are met so that these projects can then be implemented. As far as financial impact is concerned. Both the draft law and the one we have on the tables today would in any event burden future governments. That one was a seven-year-old man, too. With one important difference – that the financial impact of that draft was then 185 million. Now this is 122. This is a significant difference, but in any case it is a burden on future governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u33	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, everyone! As you all know, 2018 is the European Year of Cultural Heritage. In Slovenia we have 350 castles, castles and castles. The aim of the European Year of Cultural Heritage is to encourage people to discover and experience cultural heritage and to strengthen their sense of belonging to the common European space. The slogan of this year is Our Heritage, where the past meets the future. Cultural heritage shapes our identity and our everyday life. How much money have we invested in promoting our cultural heritage? I'm guessing there's nothing on one piece of information. I also ask what is the state of our cultural heritage, our precious cultural monuments, protected buildings, archives, public institutions. Are we going to show them with pride, or are we going to keep them a secret? Two days ago, we had a meeting of two committees, where we heard a lot about our country's attitude towards cultural heritage. Even so, it has been said that owners usually let our building fail, then it is beneficial for the demolition, and if it is money, then they build a new building. But that new building loses its historical value. It is true that there was no money at the time of the crisis, even though it revolves around money. The cultural euro law has also ceased to apply. However, if we had a vision of what needs to be done, we would gradually make a thorough recovery of our wealth. If I only mention our northeastern Slovenia. The castles are falling annually, the owners are really waiting for the buildings to collapse. If I mention the castle Viltus, which has already been mentioned, in the Municipality of Selnica ob Drava, for which our colleague Bojana Muršič has always fought and fought. The castle is a beautiful park that was renovated by a local tourist society, and the castle has a new dimension of tourism. The municipality of Selnica has seen this as one added value to the development of cultural tourism. She asked the Ministry for a part of the building, the chapel, to have rooms there and to invest. But because of the poor condition of the castle, because of the bad static and the danger, the ministry refused to allow it. However, I think if the congregation were to invest in this part of the room, it might still work out. Once again, without a vision, there's no success. If we're talking about money, let me say that Austria's Koroška gives more money than our ministry for the restoration of cultural monuments. That is why we like to go to Styria, Austria, where we see these castles and enjoy them and also their tourism flourishes. In order to strengthen our culture in order to get more money, I certainly advocate the law on the cultural euro. If you listened to my point of view, you could sense how much it was built with the help of the cultural euro. And since culture has mirrored our society, we don't allow the stepmother's attitude to culture, because we need it. If I end with the words of Anja Golob, who says that there is nothing without culture. It's about as if we're asking why we need air. Because we can't live without him. Of course I'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u35	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Matjaž Hanžek and Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I must admit that I am enjoying the conclusion of this mandate, because it is true that the representatives of the people are proving that we have authority, that we are elected representatives of the people and that we want to work for the people. We do not subject ourselves to interests that normally affect the leadership of political parties, and consequently to the restriction of Members. This law is one of those. When we talk about EUR 122 million for a programme as extensive as the proposalr himself has already presented, and I will not repeat because I have very little time, I would just like to illustrate how much damage is done in Slovenia by the sale or sale of common property. When we're talking about 122 million here, let me just remember, Nova Credit Bank Maribor was recapitalised with 870 million, sold for 250. Approximately 600 million differences. Five times as many as we've given three of the richest Americans, and here we're wondering if we're going to do something for our culture, for our peoples' sakes, if I may say so. I would like to add to this what the proposaler has already presented very vividly, we have a completely unresolved storage of archives. What is in Slovenia is uncontrollable is in a catastrophic state. I can present a similar picture, and I was also informed at the Ministry of Defence. Completely inadequate storage of the archive at this Ministry. If I recall that the vast majority of the archives connected to the Slovenian state are still in Belgrade today, this issue is even worse. Yet there are those papers, the archival material that is also our birth certificate. A country without an archive is, in fact, a country without its birth certificate, without a family tree, and this is one of the priority issues to be addressed in the future: to arrange an archive already in Slovenia, and to transfer as soon as possible the entire archive relating to the development of Slovenian statehood, including from the Belgrade archive. Many things are also happening to us because we do not have a proper view of the archives and many times the Slovenian state is then in a subordinate position with the interlocutors, because it does not actually have its relevant documents. And when you don't have the documents, you're not a reliable conversationalist. That is why Slovenia also loses much of its ability to talk to its neighbours or to talk to the international community, in short, we cannot exercise our sovereignty, our independence and independence because we do not have an orderly archive. So one of the key priorities in the future is for sure that we do this as soon as possible. One of the sites, which is extremely important, is also exposed in this material, which the applicant has prepared, that is also a fact, I will quote, as stated: “For decades there have been plans to build a natural museum in Slovenia in the biological center. There is a very successful, so-called Slovenian campus, a center with universities or colleges, which is also built by the Museum of Natural History.« We have documentation, we have everything that needs to be done, but no funds are provided. Here I would like to draw attention to how uncritical we are. When we talk about banks, as much as they require, they get that much, and something else over. When we talk about what we need to maintain our identity, then it's a fiscal rule and I don't know what kind of restrictions they're making. Wrong approach to development. So I'm going to support this marriage. And we certainly have the resources to do so, but let's just stop but sell out our common property already. This must bring us, not Americans, the richest, for example.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u37	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Koleša, then we are moving to the final part of the debate when the Government representative and the representative of the proposer have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! The bill, which in fact wishes to ensure at least a balanced development of cultural infrastructure in its guidelines and, as a result, preserves access to cultural goods, of course, I will support it. This saga, which has been for many years, not only in this mandate, but in fact for more than ten years, twenty years if you want, has been drawn in the field of investment in culture, not only in the programmes, but also in the facilities themselves, from public institutions to facilities that we have recognized as cultural heritage, is really worrying if not already alarming. First of all, and here I agree with the proposaler's explanation, because the priorities on these issues have always been easily entrusted to different policies which I think were not looking for solutions in an integrated or ambitious way, but mainly through some personal preferences of individuals who were covering the area at that time. The problem itself is not only through some prism of poor funding, i.e. the flow of money if you want, but in particular the lack of a vision, including a value system, which should really be the policy of maintaining buildings as well as their development, if you want to offer people some cultural artistic program that will already be better or better due to working conditions. In fact, this is the divisive problemization that has today been exposed to the version of the first and second laws. As far as cultural heritage is concerned. The situation in the area of cultural heritage is poor. Since 2002, we have lost 830 units in one way or another. And that's a number that's essentially catastrophic. Two days ago, at the initiative of the Levica Group, we had an urgent meeting of the Committee on Culture and Infrastructure, where we discussed the event that took place in Cyprus, where the various circumstances and facts caused the collapse or collapse of the Renaissance building. And it seems to me that the bill certainly responds in some way to this kind of problem. In order to halt the decline in cultural heritage, this trend is, in fact, a solution offered by the law, halted in a way that will be most important or very important to the recognition, as well as the endangered buildings chosen on a public call or call based primarily on criteria and criteria to be determined or assessed by the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage in relation to the threat of the building itself. In this regard, however, there will be important criteria for completing the investment and for the purpose of restoring it. These are also, in fact, those criteria that we simply missed in the SMC Group in the first version of the law. Public cultural infrastructure, which is in the management of public institutions, is also in extremely poor condition. Here I can say firsthand what is the situation in the Slovenian National Theatre Drama in Ljubljana, which is certainly a central drama theatre, both in production size and in terms of its role, with regard to the preservation of tradition and the development of some aesthetics in our theatre space. This is demonstrated by both the awards for performances, for directings, especially for the work of players, as on the other hand the number of tickets sold and, if I am a little bit deficient, even the applause at the end of the show. But the conditions of work in this house are extremely poor, and the technical equipment of the house is lacking, at the bottom, if you ask me. People just don't believe me when we talk about what the working conditions are. If I illustrate, booze – this is the technique that binds to light and scenery in the play, a certain part of the booze is on automatics, but most of the time we have a rope, the technique comes, the rope pulls and the script moves. We do not have automatics or at least not developed to regulate this completely automatically, after some automation, on the basis of some technological progress that this country has certainly recorded in these 25 years since independence. This actually means, as I said, that the technician is simply standing by the stage while the play is played, and is just doing his job. The number of reflectors is also limited. And what happens when some reflector burns, then they simply don't have the means to buy a new light bulb, but they change the lamps, which means that from some reflector, which is, say, indispensable, they turn the light bulb off and put it in another reflector. This is a real picture of the technical equipment of the national theatre. Speaking of working conditions for the production. The exercises are usually prepared on the so - called left stage, so we called it the members of Drama. This is the space that is at the main stage, and this is essentially the space that was once formerly a storage facility for scenery, a space that has no window, has no ventilation and no lighting. In that space, in fact, players and directors create new performances because this exercise room, if I may say so, changes only two weeks before the premiere, when we actually players and the whole team step on stage and create a performance, that is, just two weeks before the premiere, but by then we are on this so-called left stage or former warehouse, where we are just shoving and pushing the old boards. Don't make any mistake. Drama is not the only cultural institution marked as some kind of poor cultural infrastructure. These institutions or institutions are huge in Slovenia, and I am glad that we have before us today a proposal for a law that can certainly resolve this issue to some extent. As far as the preservation of the film heritage is concerned, I would say that the preservation of the film heritage in a manner of digitisation is certainly in the public interest. However, what has been heard from the debate is that this archive should somehow be unified, because it is scattered across different institutions, part of it is, for example, privately owned. I know the case of Mr Rok Vever, who keeps the recordings or the entire archive of dance art, but it is difficult to say that he is professionally involved, more loving, because there is simply no hearing to deal with this issue comprehensively with some exhibition space and also digitisation. When we talk about digitisation, we can certainly say that some old feature films, which have some special aesthetic value, must certainly be digitised. There's no doubt about it. But of course we also have certain videos that have some other added value, if I may say so. I had been searching the archive of the Theatre Museum for some of my personal needs, and I also ran into a video, that is, a film tape of eight millimeters. This was a recording of the performance, someone filmed exercises from the performance Who is afraid of Virginia Woolf?, in which she played a great Slovenian actress who unfortunately due to her early death did not get neither Prešeren's prize nor Borštnik's ring, but still I think one of the biggest Slovenian players – Soul Wait, where is the video with the exercises, how she played this role anthology building, how she made it. We don't actually have a picture of this play, only some old photos are kept. I also ran into an old tape, i.e. 8 millimetres, footage of Destructives in the Šentflorjanski Valley in the direction of Mile Koruna, where the main role was played now by the late, another great Slovenian player, Polde Bibič and Mojca Ribič as Jacinta. The performance was definitely an anthological performance for Slovenia's theatre space, as far as aesthetics are concerned. These existing videos would also be equally valuable for digitisation, because we are certainly talking, as we say, about another, perhaps a different added value, which our cultural space certainly recognises. Speaking of which, I am only talking about the fact that the bill actually offers a broad spectrum of how to address the additional provision of resources which the country is increasingly providing in the budget, in view of the needs which, due to the diversity of the concept of culture, are increasing. I will support the law, and I also hope for the wisdom of this call by the national assembly, that the law will also be adopted in this reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u39	Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much. What we have heard now from colleague Tabakovic is what the Minister said at the beginning of his speech in the National Assembly on this point of the agenda. In all these years, there have been no investments in culture, except for some maintenance works. We all know what that means. It means that these institutions that we are talking about are in decline and that we must certainly not allow as a society. At the time of my mission, I was a member of the Committee on Culture in a large facility which was restored – and we spoke earlier about Villa Vipolje – perhaps another – either from the budget or from the European Union. We have to say that these are extremely good stories. One of such very good stories is the Museum of Military History of Slovenia. It is not just about being willing to invest in such institutions, but also about the willingness of some local communities involved. We have here, as I said, very good stories, but of course we also have devastating stories. Unfortunately, there are more and more of these, and we have to put a dot here. I think that marriage is a very good way to really stop this collapse. Yeah, it's also true that this marriage has some sort of trap that's been talked about. It's called public finances. And priorities are always in the hands of politicians, in the hands of decision makers. I must say here that I am very sorry that, in this mandate, we have not recognized the power that culture has for our Slovenian nation, that we have actually not been able to invest any more in institutions and programmes, and that it may also in some way be my eternal journey even in political life, but whatever it will be. However, we know that decision makers in the past have recognized this importance of culture and that it is precisely because of prioritisation that a decision has been taken on investment, on the so-called cultural euro, first of all on the tolar in the past, that is to say from 1998 onwards, that somehow gives me the optimism that it will be so in the future. Each of us, who has worked in one way or another in the field of culture, has been able to add some of his own experience regarding his own actions. I've been doing a little bit more myself with the beginnings of some cultural creator. I am talking, of course, about the amateur cultural activity that usually starts in school benches, starting with young people, and it is extremely right to start with this recognition here as well, who will also be more involved in culture in the future and who will contribute to both personal growth and cultural integration, as well as to the recognition of important social values. Later, those who are actively engaged in or at least engage in one way or another in cultural life, including operators and users of cultural goods, are so important that they get to know each other early and are part of this cultural space. Of course, you are also the fastest to get involved in different cultural societies. You can trust me that it is very important that these cultural societies, which operate exclusively on the basis of volunteering and lovemaking, have the basic conditions for their work. This period of a permanent or very stable part of financial investment in this area was also of exceptional importance for amateur cultural activity. There was always little money, there was never very much money. I understand the fears of local communities today that funds are relatively small, that they are limited, that they may be too small to invest within local communities, where the municipality usually adds certain funds. However, I know from my own experience that the most useful river in this area is, in fact, the path where there is will. I never asked anyone who came to me with any desire to implement a particular programme for money, but first we talked about how important this program is, how important this activity is to them in the future. Only after we realized that this was of exceptional importance and that money should also be provided did we do this second part. You could say that this path has never been unheard of. So that in the event that important projects are identified as such in this area, the local communities will definitely participate in these programmes. That is why these resources, even though we know that they are not very large, we rejoice or are especially happy with these lovers in cities and in our countryside. Once again, I would like to stress that it is imperative that we adopt the law. I would mention that in such cases, any pre-election or anything I know of is inappropriate for my taste, because it seems to me that the purpose and purpose of this law is significantly more important than the question of who now has greater, less or no credit for this law. We have adopted thirteen laws on cultural policy in this mandate. Maybe we can avoid the curse of a bad number, give it to the 14th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u41	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. The first is Minister of Culture Anton Pešak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the support of the law is, however, wider than it can be understood, and the promise that the law could also be definitively adopted as we have heard it. However, I would like to respond to some of the topics that have been opened up as some kind of reference theme, since the law itself does not really make sense to repeat what has been said. It was mentioned that the numbers that are now set by this law are somewhat too low. I would say that in some reasonable management of these investments, it is necessary to count on the co-investors' shares of municipalities where the municipalities are owners, that it is necessary to count that other owners who would run for these funds to open up opportunities, and in some cases there are already opportunities for European funds, in particular in the field of digitisation, so that, in my opinion, these funds can double or triple if we know that in the future. I would also like to respond to some subtextual evidence that we are burdening the next governments. Type of legislation, type of decision burdens the following budgets. Even if we are talking about investments in public economic infrastructure, it is generally about investments that take place for five years or more, and they also bind future budgets. This is part of some strategic reflection, because if we always think only in the context of current mandates, then there will probably be no development. Several reference themes have been mentioned, which are very important. I would not repeat what has been said with regard to some absence of a strategy of conduct, in particular with a immovable cultural heritage. I agree with that. However, let me say that it is practically ready for a cultural heritage strategy procedure, which also touches on this issue and will be made available to the next minister at the time of handover. If he agrees with her, he will be able to turn her over to the next government, or he will adjust her accordingly, if he thinks it is necessary, and within a few months, he will take her into action. Some of the problems that I believe have been mentioned were due to my own conviction, and I have had too little time for these things to be principles, but we have tried to make them known in the draft national cultural programme for culture, which obviously will not be adopted in this mandate. It is a matter of some rigidity of legislation in this area. We have a lot of hands-on for some specific cases, such as how to rent and manage immovable cultural heritage objects. I must say that the obstacles that have been put at the level of legislation in the past are much more than the possibilities. Sometimes I have to say that I was surprised myself, because I thought it was normal for some things to be rented instead of renting for renewal, but this is not possible by law and so on. There's a lot of things waiting to be saved. I would also like to agree with warnings about the importance of digitisation of heritage in other areas, such as film heritage. We can currently make one movie, two maximum annual with integral means. But we do know that movies are failing, those that were normally shots with a very big rush. If there are no funds, there will be many [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dr Dragan Matić also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. If we consider some of these pre-election tours of individual debaters, which are, however, a period in which we are, to some extent, understandable, I can express my satisfaction, like the Minister of Culture, that there is a great deal of support in the National Assembly of this Law, but in any case not opposition. The circumstances in which the financing of the cultural resources is currently being implemented or the situations in which they are not at least pink are worrisome. We know that, in particular, investment in European money infrastructure is no longer foreseen for European funds to be earmarked for so-called soft content, and thus we cannot preserve cultural heritage or provide investment. As with integrated means, I will not lose words, they are incontinuously shrinking or falling from year to year and are at an entirely insufficient level. That is why this law is more needed and also comes after my assessment, although it will be implemented as Mr Minister himself said, with synergies and other co-sponsors, I believe that it is not too late and that we will be able to make up for a lot of things with the adoption of this law. I am therefore pleased once again with the general court and I hope for support both in the first reading and in the further proceedings in the National Assembly and the State Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u45	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I find that no, so I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 27 March, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timing. I also interrupt the 16th item of the agenda. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on the amendment of the legislation on gassilence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. This is the same proposal as we proposed in the intervention law to remedy the damage caused by natural capture a few months ago. That's when you all said, because these solutions are good, they would have taken these solutions if it were a fire-fighting law, because that's part of the fire-extinguishing law. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a fire extinguisher bill ahead of you, and now prove you're keeping your word. What is the point in this proposal? Firefighters are always the first ones to help. Firefighters are an integral part of the protection system of the state of Slovenia and are people who sacrifice their time, their health, sometimes unfortunately, their lives to help others. It was in the Churches of Gorenjsk that I came from that end, and I was elected there, that was unfortunately the last case of such a tragedy, when the firefighter unselfishly helped empty the cellar flooded by stormwater. There was a short contact, and unfortunately she demanded his life. This is said to be the state's attitude, not only in the words we always hear and we all thank the firefighters over and over again, but in actions he admits what he has to do. It is said that the firefighter is a noble mission, that it is in the public interest, that it is an extremely important part of our system and that, therefore, under the appropriate conditions for their work and the conduct of firefighters, the country is also in debt. We propose three sets of solutions. The first refers to the relationship between a voluntary firefighter and a employer. Here, of course, now that the system has changed, what has worked for decades is no longer working well, when it comes to the fact that private property was gone. Today, a private employer in the company hardly misses a firefighter when he goes on an intervention. Especially if there is a key position and if the natural environment is larger, so that there is a few days missing, such as in the case of a storm or in the case of an acorn a few years ago. There are also production distortions, company disturbances and therefore this needs to be properly regulated. Many volunteer firefighters thus have difficulty in their employment or in their work. We therefore propose that this should be done by stimulating the employment of firefighters by reducing insurance premiums and introducing additional tax reliefs to the employer who employs a voluntary firefighter. We then propose that the state take over what some municipalities are currently governing, in order to finally provide funds for the insurance of operational firefighters and to provide funds for the preventive health checks of operational firefighters. That's a small sum, a small amount, and a large gesture that says you respect the work of firefighters. Finally, we propose that the State provide voluntary operational firefighters with funding for additional health insurance and additional pension insurance for each day of the public fire service. So it's two key sets. One refers to the fact that the state would stimulate the employment of voluntary firefighters, because it is also in the public interest, and, at the same time, it also repays the firefighters for everything they sacrifice in their work for others. On the other hand, in order to additionally introduce the financing of all those funds, it is for insurance, preventive checks and, when it comes to operational work, for the days when firefighters are called upon and carried out in the operational part of the public fire service. At that time it would be an additional pension insurance as well as an additional health insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely small amount and it would be extremely inappropriate if the debate went like this, with 50,000 euros for Ahmad Shamieh not being a problem, and 50,000 euros for voluntary firefighters is a problem. I think firefighters deserve a lot more. Not only in words, but in actions. It's time for action, for firefighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u47	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence of Mags, for the introductory explanation of the proposal. Dear Biszak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u48	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Firefighting in our country is the foundation of rescue services in the face of the many natural and other disasters we face. Without fire, we cannot practically imagine a system of protection against natural and other disasters. In the opening, I should like to point out that the Government, which runs out of mandate, has been committed to improving the situation in the field of firefighting as an important humanitarian activity in the public interest, including the improvement of the status and rights of both professional and voluntary firefighters. In the sense of the latter, on the basis of the negotiation process with the Trade Fire Trade Union in the context of the elimination of wage imbalances between the so-called authorised officials, it has also established a proposal to supplement the Firearms Act at the beginning of March this year, which is more appropriate and comparable to other uniformed professions, regulates a permanent allowance. The Ministry of Defence also prepares the starting points for the new Firearms Act, which also places great emphasis on improving the situation of firefighters. The Government considers that the proposal for a law on additions to the Firearms Act, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jožet Tank, is substantive and nomotechnically so weak that it cannot be supported. Let me briefly explain these points of view. We believe that the proposal for a law in the main does not follow the principle of certainty. Since the first proposed solution relating to the addition of Article 4(5) of the applicable Fire Action Act (the current proposal is Article 1 of the bill), it is thus not at all clear which insurance premiums are to be reduced for employers, nor are they to be facilitated. It is also not clear from the proposed solution whether the proposed solution concerns only newly employed firefighters or already existing jobs. A similar assessment of the indeterminability of the proposed solutions is also applicable to the completion of Article 26 of the Firearms Act (Article 3 of the bill). It does not make clear what health insurance is to be provided to voluntary firefighters by the State — either complementary or additional. A reasonable equal question is also raised with regard to the provision of pension insurance – whether it is compulsory supplementary pension insurance or supplementary pension insurance. In terms of the substantive assessment of the proposed solutions, it should be clarified that certain status issues in the case of firefighters are also governed by the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. This Act already provides that the costs of health, disability and pension insurance and the rights set out in the preceding paragraphs of this Article shall be borne by the State or local community if the person is not insured on another basis. The law has already provided for the Protection and Rescue Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to provide for operational volunteer firefighters and other rescue workers who, on the basis of national and regional protection and rescue plans, can be deployed from less vulnerable areas to the area affected by the accident and to take over the costs of health checks in the implementation of training programmes for particularly difficult rescue tasks. Firefighters' insurance is also governed by the Firearms Act, which already provides that operational firefighters must be insured in the event of death, permanent loss of general working ability and temporary incapacity to work caused by an accident in the event of termination or resolution. However, professional firefighters shall have the right to recognise an insurance period with an increased or compulsory supplementary pension insurance in accordance with the general rules. The Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia shall, in accordance with the laws and regulations, implement the provisions on the protection of firefighters, both professional and voluntary. For this purpose, the Ministry of Defence shall have a contract of insurance for insured persons, including operational firefighters and other rescue workers, which may be sent from less vulnerable areas to the area affected by the accident. It follows from the Law on protection against natural and other disasters that, in the event of a natural or other accident, forces and resources of local communities are first used, only in cases where, due to the large extent of the accident or threat of force and resources of the local community, the State is not sufficient to ensure the use of force and resources from the wider area. This principle is also followed by the financing of protection against natural and other disasters, including the financing of firefighting tasks. Each law must also contain an assessment of the financial implications for the country as well as for local communities. The proposal for the law under consideration does not have this assessment, it is only stated that it will have them, but precise assessments cannot be made because of the nature of their rights. The government considers that this is not enough and that the proposed solutions should be so clear and precise as to allow for a proper assessment of the financial consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u49	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for her Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u50	Dear Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's a little harder to count you today. Whoever you ask today is who is the first to offer assistance in all kinds of natural and other accidents: firefighters. Whether they're voluntary or professional, they're the first on the scene. They often risk their lives to save the lives of others. If you ask who of the uniformed professions – police officers, members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army, firefighters – should be best rewarded for the job, the answer is the same: the firefighters are the ones. In Novi Slovenija, we have already, in the mandate of Alenka Bratušek, and in this mandate of the Government of Mir Cerar, highlighted the unfair and unacceptable moves that have pushed firemen and firefighters to the brink. In 2013, in the process of adopting the Real Estate Tax Act, we proposed to exempt all protection and rescue facilities, notably fire houses, from compulsory taxation. In 2016, we proposed a new Act on tax clearance of accounts which would exempt voluntary firefighting companies, which as humanitarian societies are largely financed by voluntary contributions and donations from legal and natural persons, as debtors under this Act. We have noted that the important income of these societies is also raised from events, especially firemen's cheers. The funds collected from these events are mainly intended for the purchase of fire-fighting equipment and fire-fighting vehicles. In December 2017, when the new Law on the Public Sector Wages Scheme was adopted, we also pointed out the urgently needed correction of the entire public sector payment system, in terms of the comparability of individual titles, professions and professional groups, taking into account their complexity and the responsibilities of the work burden. We drew attention to a group of professional firefighters when the government saw the biggest problem in paying 122 out of a total of 665 firefighters, representing only €150,000 per year. Firefighters are actually under-rewarded, you might even say they're neglected. The government only promises to improve their status. This occurs most often in the event of major natural or environmental disasters, when they are doing the most difficult and life-threatening work without delay. Remember the fire in Kemis on Vrhnika. How did the state repay them for their servitude? With promises! In Nova Slovenija we welcome today's proposal for concrete solutions that provide additional health and pension insurance and preventive checks. The solutions are welcome for employers whose state will reduce insurance premiums and allow them tax reliefs, while operational firefighters will have the right to preventive health checks and additional health insurance, and for each day the public fire service will also have the right to supplementary pension insurance. These measures therefore resolve the status of firefighters in a concrete and immediate manner, and most importantly, not at the expense and burden of the municipalities, as envisaged by the Government's proposal. The Government has submitted a new amendment to the same Firearms Act for parliamentary consideration, which provides professional firefighters with a permanent allowance after five years of carrying out operational tasks, but is essentially in detail. The government imposes this obligation on the municipalities in which public institutions in the field of professional firefighting are organised. It is therefore a matter of further burdening the municipal budgets, of course the easiest thing to do is to resolve the sentences under the strike agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Trade Fire Union on the shoulders of the municipalities. In view of the above, in New Slovenia we will support the proposal to supplement the Firearms Act proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u51	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The novelty of the Fires Act intervenes in an article that complements the status of an operative firefighter. They believe that the relationship and status between employers and operational volunteer firefighters could be improved by reducing the insurance premium and granting tax relief to the employer when hiring an operational volunteer firefighter. They also propose that the State provide funds to provide for operational firefighters and funds for their preventive health checks. Following a proposal, the State would provide an additional pension insurance to a volunteer firefighter for each day of the fire service. The financial assessment of the proposer of this novel is as follows: "The adoption of the bill will have direct implications for the state budget. An accurate assessment of the financial implications of providing voluntary operational firefighters with the financing of additional health insurance and, for each day of the fire service, additional pension insurance is currently difficult to provide. To this end, resources are provided in the State budget under the budget line The operation of the system of protection, rescue and assistance within the framework of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue." In our Group of Members, we ask why no proposal is made to indicate which tasks should be reversed so that funds can be made available for the solutions proposed. Your Honor! Social Democrats are aware of the importance and respect of the work of firefighters and firefighters. High respect for members and members of the fire companies after Slovenia and their unselfish action is felt at every step in each local community. This is also reflected at country level, as firefighting has a long tradition in Slovenia. This is shown mainly in the number of voluntary fire companies as well as in the number of firefighters and firefighters. Tradition has turned into the most massive force in the system of protection and rescue. There are over a thousand 400 active fire units in the country. This number includes all voluntary fire companies, industrial fire companies and professional fire brigades. Over 60,000 operative firefighters provide immediate and unselfish assistance to citizens and citizens in the resolution and protection of their lives and property. The fire department is a public service already operated by the fire brigades. The financing of the activities of firefighting companies and associations and firefighting units is based on the resources provided for by the state budget and the budget of the municipality, the funds of insurance companies and businesses, the income from own activities and contributions, gifts and elections of natural and legal persons. We are convinced that fire brigades across Slovenia are well-trained and well-equipped. We are also convinced that the municipal authorities are aware of the importance of the operation of firefighting companies in the local environment and that a certain proportion of the budget is allocated to this. We support any solution that will not only provide firefighters and firefighters but also provide others with better working conditions, perhaps some privilege. But we also support our Minister's efforts to improve the wage position of professional firefighters. Regrettably, the proposal of the Firearms Act, which is prepared on the basis of an agreement between the Government and the Trade Fire Trade Union, stands and waits because of today's law. However, professional firefighters are also waiting to be dealt with in payment with a matter related to a permanent allowance or to the application of the strike agreement. If the introduction of your proposed amendment to the Firearms Act is merely a continuation of the manoeuvre of non-admission of defence laws, the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and the regulation of the strike commitment with firefighters proposed by the Minister of Defence, that is to say only your unfair attitude towards the people affected by these areas. We will continue to make every effort by the Social Democrats to adopt a government law that is ready in this expired mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u53	Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! I'll start with one quote. I quote, “solidarity, common, public good, equality – all this is not an easy matter of personal conviction, of mentality, but must exist as a social infrastructure”. And I go on to say, "the society must be objectively organised so that it is solidarity". I will repeat this last part; society must be objectively organised by solidarity. It is two key points of today's interview by Dr. Alenka Zupančič Žerdin in, someone would say, the low-level publisher Mladina. I personally believe that Mrs is currently the maximum of the mind that we are going through in this society and in this country. You'll tell me what this has to do with firefighters. It's huge! Firefighting is one of the rare remains of infrastructure solidarity. With all due respect to firefighters, my great-grandfather is one of the beginners of the modern fire barrier in Slovenia, and for some time I was the youngest firefighter in the Voluntary Fire Company Vinica. I was even born in a branch primary school, part of which was a firehouse, which now turned its destination into a firehouse in the town of Zilje. In fact, it saddens me that we can only be solidarity in the field of disaster. That's gonna have to be changed. Before I go to read our rejection position – The Fire Act was adopted at a meeting on 29 September 2005. If memory doesn't bother me, then the government was John John Janša. At that time, Article 11a of the fourth indent stated: “The public fire service contract provides for the funds provided by the competent municipal authority for the firefighting units of voluntary firefighting companies.” In short, you gentlemen have accepted this. It's an attitude. First time. The proposed law does not solve any problem of operational volunteer firefighters and shows that applicants are extremely underestimating citizens in general and volunteer firefighters in particular. The law was written as superficially as the government representative said it could not be enforced, while the law blocked the consideration of the government novel of the Fires Act. In fact, the government novels bring new rights to professional firefighters, namely the stability allowance that they faced with the sentence – remember, before the byte here. Therefore, the Left will not support the SDS proposal. Another time. Let us see Article 1 which states that employers who employ operational volunteer firefighters are quoted as "decreasing insurance premiums and having tax exemptions". Under A. This provision is empty. Employers who employ volunteer firefighters do not pay insurance premiums, on the contrary. In order to provide emergency insurance to operational volunteer firefighters, the municipalities must, in accordance with the applicable law, provide the municipalities. This article, which I read earlier, was adopted by the government of Janš. B. Also, the provision that “employers have tax reliefs”, the end of the quote, essentially means little or nothing. What tax does this tax benefit relate to? Employers who are legal persons pay a tax on profits and VAT. If a firefighter is employed in a public administration, the employer shall not pay any of these taxes. Employers who are espouses are not bound by corporate income tax, and some are not bound by VAT. So what tax does this famous relief apply, and how much is this relief? In short, it's one of the most empty provisions I've ever seen in these three and a half years, seven months and 23 days, and I've seen them, I'm sorry, too much or too much. Third time. Article 2 follows. This is understandable, however, because it is contrary to the Article 11a in force, which provides that the municipality must provide funds for the insurance and training of firefighters. The SDS proposal does not delete this obligation of the municipalities, but duplicates it. If their proposal were to be adopted, insurance and training resources should be provided both by the State and by the municipality; therefore, in practice, everyone would want to go beyond the obligation to another. In short, the SDS does not actually propose any new right for voluntary firefighters, but proposes to legislate something that is pointless. Fourth time. In Levica, of course, we greatly appreciate the work of professional and voluntary firefighters, not only because of the history of the Trček family, if I put it that way. The vast majority of Slovenian firefighters are volunteers, but most of them will never respond to the profession when necessary. This happens continuously in the professions of the contract reserve of the Slovenian Armed Forces, with military reserve for the reserve service even paid in contrast to firefighters. In Levica we are aware and, of course, we want to talk about certain benefits for employers, private and state workers who employ voluntary operational firefighters, but we are willing to talk on the basis of serious proposals, not on the basis of some pre-election pamphlets wrapped in law. Of course, we are not against tax reliefs for those who employ operational voluntary firefighters, but we demand that tax and contribution cuts be replaced by higher taxation of the highest wages. We must also draw the attention of citizens to the two-faced SDS as well as to coalition parties. As the elections approach, all of a sudden all good suggestions for firefighters, for pensioners, for exiles, for why didn't you propose this when you were in power and you had a parliamentary majority? [[…]] After all, you proposed this law to the congregations, which he imposed on them. Six. The drafter states in his explanation of the law that the SDS provided additional funds for firefighters with an amendment in the 2014 budget. If we are already boasting with thanks for firefighting, let me remind you that we have tabled an amendment in Levica to increase funds for protection and rescue in 2017. The Government of this amendment, like all of our budget amendments, has not accepted this amendment, but in the complementary proposal itself has provided some additional funding for this area. At the same time, let us remind you that the only Levica has stood up for military helicopter pilots who are also indispensable for the protection, rescue and extinguishing of fires. The SDS is obsessively engaged in the military, but they are not affected by the fact that during the summer season, when there were the most fires and accidents in the mountains, 55% of helicopter pilots landed because the General Staff did not provide training on simulators in time, although Janez Janša teaches strategic leadership at the General Staff School. It's a week. In short, if and when someone proposes serious measures to strengthen the fire extinguisher and improve the situation of firefighters, we are the first in Levica to be ready to talk seriously about this. This law should also be rejected in order to adopt before the elections a government novel, which provides professional firefighters with a higher amount of permanence that they have fought with a strike. However, it will, of course, be necessary to arrange for voluntary firefighters in the next term, but not in such a sabbatical way. And the next point is even more shabbazer, so it won't just fly on the SDS. We will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u55	Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Allow me to refer first to the Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents of 2016 to 2022, adopted by the National Assembly in November 2016, for the introduction of the Opinion of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre to the Proposal for a Law on the Complementation of the Firearms Act. It shows that the main objective of our country is to reduce the number of accidents in the next medium term and to prevent or mitigate their consequences in order to make life safer and more qualitative. If this objective is in general similar to the objectives that guide the policies of other countries in this area, the specificity of our country is that several paragraphs after that resolution underlines that the further development of the force for protection, rescue and assistance will be based on volunteering. Such an emphasis on volunteering in a country-adopted programme is least unusual, but it is understandable if we know that the Republic of Slovenia has very few professional firefighters compared to other European countries and, on the other hand, great national wealth in the form of voluntary firefighting units. In addition to carrying out a public fire service together with professional units and organisations in the way that voluntary firefighters with their operational readiness are able to act 24 hours a day in the event of natural and other accidents throughout Slovenia, the importance of voluntary fire companies is much greater. They provide social support to people, strengthen connectivity and solidarity among people, and in a wide range of places across Slovenia, they also carry other broad activities and activities, including cultural integration. That our country can still rely on voluntary firefighters for more than half a century on the long tradition of firefighting in Slovenia, and that these are noblely carrying out their mission, not only on the self-sacrifice of individuals and individuals, but also on the understanding of employers and the measures of the country that enable the maintenance and strengthening of the value of altruistic assistance to the fellow human being. With regard to the latter, the resolution already mentioned in the introduction foresees that by 2022 the situation of rescue workers who voluntarily participate in protection and rescue will also be improved. In this regard, we have been very promising in the Group of the Modern Centre Party from the Minister of Defence's announcement that the status of all volunteers in the field of protection, rescue and assistance will be improved by the reform of the Firearms Act and the amendment of the law governing protection against natural and other disasters. Unfortunately, it's still not on our tables. Probably one of the reasons is the regulation of the position of professional firefighters, by which the Government signed the strike agreement on 5 January 2018, and now the adoption of the legal basis for its implementation blocks the present proposal. Let us see, however, what proposal for a law still prevents the National Assembly from deciding on the arrangements for the occupational firefighters' permanent allowance, comparable to other uniformed professions. The key or only solutions proposed are three. The SDS proposal regulates the status of an operational volunteer firefighter as a relationship between the employer and the firefighter so that the employer who employs firefighters is reduced by insurance premiums and is entitled to tax reliefs. State tasks include the provision of insurance funds, preventive health checks on operational firefighters and supplementary health insurance, as well as supplementary pension insurance for each day of the fire service. These solutions are proposed in the draft law, which seeks to be some kind of firefighter’s ZUJF, and are proposed in such a way, without the precise justification of the beneficiaries, the content of the rights of voluntary firefighters and firefighters and the facilitation of employers, on the other hand. We cannot tell from the proposal whether all voluntary firefighters would be entitled to additional rights, i.e. in the Republic of Slovenia there are about 150 000, or only those with a certain number of interventions, or whether the proposal concerns new or existing jobs. There is no need to stress in particular that the proposal is not nearly sufficient to meet the criteria of clarity and certainty of the rules. The fact that this is a text that appears in a faster-written promotional leaflet than in the draft law also demonstrates the fact that the applicants are not even trying to assess the financial implications, but are frankly stating that the exact financial implications are currently difficult to address, and yet these are provided under the budgetary heading of the Operation of the Protection, Rescue and Assistance System. The financial plan of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue for the current year is good 39 million. If we divide this number by the number of volunteer firefighters, we get 260 euros a year for a single volunteer or volunteer or to underpin the argument of total unreality. Even if the entire budget of the Board were to be allocated for the pre-election advertising of the SDS, this would still not be sufficient to cover the financial consequences of the bill. For all the reasons listed below, which we will further underpin, we will vote in the SMC Group against the conclusion that the proposal is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u57	Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Mr State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting to all firefighters and firefighters who may accompany this meeting! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support that law and reject that it is a pre-election law, because remember that the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed an intervention law months ago due to the windshield that took place in December last year, and we also wrote in there articles on the field of regulation of the problem of voluntary firefighters, we placed in there that additional pension and supplementary health insurance are paid to firefighters and that incentives are put in place for employers who are employed. At that time, in the debates about the law that we proposed, you said that this was not part of this law and that it was necessary to resolve it separately from the law that was proposed. And what did we do? We did exactly what you said and proposed a change to the Firearms Act, where we introduced the text of the articles that we proposed at the time into the law that was governed by the windshield that took place in several laws. And today we hear that this is also wrong; that the measures are not clearly specified enough, that the financial consequences are not sufficiently defined and so on. In short, if we look at the law we wrote in the four articles or the amendment of the law. The first article states that the status of an operational volunteer firefighter is that this is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter, which stimulates the employment of firefighters by reducing insurance premiums for the employer and by providing tax reliefs. It is probably clear to everyone that, on the basis of this Article and on the basis of the text we have written in this Article, these benefits and insurance premiums are subsequently determined. In short, it is a matter of firefighters getting this from the government or in this case from the Ministry of Finance, where everything that is related to finance is actually going on to decide what these matters will be. Article 2 to provide funds for the provision of operational firefighters and means for preventive health checks of operational firefighters. Then Article 3 to provide voluntary operational firefighters with financing of additional health insurance, and for each day of the public fire service, also pension insurance. Here it is necessary to say – obviously some of you have mixed the professions of firefighters and volunteer firefighters – that it is two separate groups, not the same subject, although the matter is similar, but I think it is more clear than to say that it belongs to them for every day of public fire service, it would be difficult to define. The question of who is entitled to how many people are entitled to it is not necessary at all in this place, because it is known that those who will perform the public fire service – the Fire Department of Slovenia knows what a public fire service is, I think that later on, best colleague Pojbič will explain as an active firefighter, I also welcome that he has arrived in a firefighter's uniform today, showing further honor and respect for firefighters – is known what public service is. We are not talking about all members of the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, who are now about 150,000, now pay these premiums or insurances for each day, but about 42 thousand operative firefighters, as many as are within these 150,000 who perform the public fire service – we know in what way, and we know when. The same could be said when you asked why we had waited until the end for this, it was on the Defence Committee that we unanimously, with the exception of the SMC Group of Members, confirmed the proposal that the Government should comply with the requirements prepared by professional firefighters at that time, that this should be considered as soon as possible, that this dialogue should be concluded and that the proposal should be brought to the National Assembly as soon as possible. On the basis of that conclusion, at its next meeting in one week, the Government could confirm what they had agreed with the firefighters to meet their demands, given that the actual amount of financial implications resulting from the measures proposed to improve their status or status was around EUR 800,000, which we know is how much compared to a budget of over EUR 9 billion. But if there's no will, there's no way, if there's a will, there's a way, and it's been waiting too long for that. Now reading the Slovenian Democratic Party to prevent that law, because we have submitted our own, is in some way unrealistic and is also misleading. The government could have come earlier with its proposal, I agree that we could have come sooner with our proposal, but we tabled this proposal with a law that was an intervention law to remedy the consequences of the phlegm, and then you said that this does not belong here, that this is part of the district law governing the status of the firefighter. The status of the firefighter has been heard for years and years as the matter will be settled, although it is certainly a step in the right direction what is proposed in the field of professional firefighting, following both the decisions of the committee and the demands of professional firefighters, despite the fact that there are still reserves and that there is still something to be arranged. However, I believe that we have had a lot of debate in the National Assembly in this mandate on the Slovenian Armed Forces, especially with regard to the payment system, and that it will certainly be necessary to open up not only discussions in the next mandate, but also something concrete in terms of the purpose of exempting uniformed professions from the single wage system in the public sector. This is a specific profession that we cannot compare with others, and there would certainly be better solutions than what we now have. We were with the Defence Committee – I think last year or a year and a half ago – on the ground in Sežana, we visited professional firefighters. Their activities were presented and the challenges they were facing were also presented. As with other visits on the basis of this visit, we have then drawn up conclusions on the Defence Committee on what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Defence should do to improve this problem, to improve the status of firefighters, to improve the conditions. In view of the fact that the unit operates primarily in Crassus, the issue of fires in nature that occur mainly due to the railway line was presented and all these decisions were adopted unanimously by the Defence Committee. Mr State Secretary, I would expect you to tell this national assembly, however, whether this decision has been implemented and why it has not been implemented. In particular, it was said that regional laws should also regulate the control of railways themselves in order to take or implement measures to prevent such fires as we witness practically every year in the dry season in the region of Crassus and the wider region. Regulating only status or certain measures to correct injustices to professional firefighters within four years or three years and seven months, as Comrade Trček said, is not exactly a success in the field of firefighting, given that we have one law governing this area, and that we could certainly find some consensus within these three years and seven months both with the Ministry of Finance and with some other ministry – now with regard to infrastructure and the environment, as we were then informed – that there was no change in any law in the field of nature protection, but unfortunately there was nothing done in this area. I hear that, unfortunately, there is also a complication with the Republic of Slovenia's Protection and Rescue Authority, because this holds that there are problems with the Slovenian Army helicopter when required – and these requirements are great, we know that also because of the irresponsible behaviour of those who go to the hills, mountains and so on in inappropriate equipment – but this is precisely why the Slovenian Administration for Protection and Rescue came up with an idea and also this year they had a serious intention to buy a helicopter for their needs to become increasingly dependent on the Slovenian Army and their helicopters. This idea was good, we welcomed this idea, but also these realizations because there is no support from the government. I'm afraid she won't. And then we could move on. There are funds, not to hold me to the floor now, but if I am not mistaken, I think that there is a fund in Norway that supports such projects in the event of cooperation between different countries, and it is certainly one of the solutions to a more effective system of protection and rescue, when transport by helicopter is needed, that protection and resolution is given its own capabilities in this area. In short, these are the things that could be regulated that could be solved, the conclusions were taken. Unlike previous mandates, we convened a meeting on this committee when we came from the visit, and the things proposed to us there by those with whom we have heard, either with the mountain rescue service, either with firefighters, or with representatives of the Slovenian Army, the conclusions were taken on the basis of visits to the first brigade, on the basis of the naval division and so on. Unfortunately, those decisions, although adopted unanimously by both members of the opposition and the coalition on the Defence Committee, were not adopted. And there's not much work to do and there's not much financial input to get things sorted out, but if there's priorities elsewhere, then there's no moving forward. In short, once again in this mandate, nothing has been done to regulate the status of a voluntary firefighter, this is not the only proposal in the field of firefighting proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I would also like to recall the proposal we have tabled regarding value added tax, where we have proposed an additional or reduced rate of 5 % or 5% of value added tax would be paid for the purchase of firefighting equipment. This would facilitate financial difficulties and financial expenditure for a large number of firefighters buying new firefighting equipment, but unfortunately we have not been successful in this area, because the ruling coalition has refused to do so. I would like to recall the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the budgets. The last amendment was proposed last year for the 2018 budget to allocate an additional two million euros in this year and then also in 2019 for firefighting equipment. Three votes have been lost to adopt this amendment. Unfortunately, more funding could also be provided in the field of firefighting equipment. We know what needs are, we know what purchases are like; we know that Slovenian firefighters, when compared with other European countries, are both trained and equipped, but investing in security not only in general, but in particular in the case of protection and rescue – we must not allow the entire financial burden to fall mainly to the municipalities. It would also make sense to open the debate once and talk about some of the recommended values of the funds that the municipalities are earmarking for voluntary firefighting. We know that, on the one hand, the majority of the items in municipal budgets intended for the operation of firefighting companies, on the other hand, for the purchase of firefighting equipment – now it is somewhat recommended 3%, but somewhat more in terms of binding, given that those Members who walk and are invited to the general assembly of firefighting companies see that there are different values and different funding across different municipalities, different amounts of funding depending on how the municipal budget is. It was also proposed to allow the use of a blue light for voluntary firefighters to intervene in their civilian vehicles. This is one of the solutions some European countries know, but unfortunately we have not been successful here, and the ruling coalition has rejected this proposal. In short, do not say that we have made this proposal just before the elections, because we have also made some proposals in previous years to improve the status and problem of voluntary firefighting both in financial terms and in terms of greater security, greater protection for those who, in the service of voluntary firefighters who have actually served with many voluntary hours – the Fireworks of Slovenia, I am sure that the relationship or organization in Slovenia, which performs the most voluntary hours of the year – would, of course, give them some recognition, but also allow them further development. This is a fine example of volunteering, solidarity, mutual unselfish assistance and in Slovenia we need to take care of this. Of course, on the one hand, to make sure that the proposals — and this proposal is not such — would not give any impression that volunteering is in some way going to destroy itself and even within the Firehouse to give some competition for who does more is also paid more because there are also various tasks involved in these interventions, various firefighters perform different tasks. As a result, the proposal is that those who perform public fire services also receive an additional pension and health insurance. As has already been said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support the proposal we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u59	Franc Jurša will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Secretary of State, nice to meet you. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, especially the fireman among you, Marian Pojbic! At the outset, I would like to say that we have very well organised firefighting in Slovenia, that we have good firefighters, that we also have good equipment and that we have enough care for firefighters from the country as well as the local community. Tradition is rich, and it also gives this wealth in some way a way to encourage the young generation to step into the fireflies. I'm not going to talk about the history of my fire family, I'm not going to talk about my work in a fire organization. I must say that this tradition is very rich and that I have dealt with this issue in such an amateur way, it is said voluntarily, as well as professionally. I come from an area where firefighting is highly developed. Northeastern Slovenia has its own fire company in almost every village, and these fire companies are categorised and categorised to order how many operational firefighters a firefighter must actually have, if it covers a particular area, whether it is the first category or even the fifth. Here, of course, we must not forget that some voluntary fire companies carry out tasks of national importance and that they have a contract or agreement with these firefighters or the Republic Authority for Protection and Rescue. Every local community – at least I think it is so arranged in all others, not only in those I know – has agreements, contracts with the mayors on the operation of the local fire service and thus commits themselves to covering a particular territory or territory with firefighting. Once again, firefighting in Slovenia is very well developed in more or less parts of Slovenia, especially in northeastern Slovenia. What an important role our firefighters and even more operatives play, it is sad to say that we are only aware of natural and other disasters. Their ministry is a mission that threatens their lives to save ours. In Slovenia, the number of volunteer firefighters increases annually and in some ways another country envys us. We can be very proud of these firefighters. Imagine a perfect stranger risking his life for us, but he does not expect any payment. None! Firefighters are the ones who go straight to the scene, where they need them. But I also have to tell you that firefighters need a lot of people, and there's a lot of firefighters on the job. If you want, they help you enter the apartment, and they also save a cat in a tree and stuff like that. All this is done by our firefighters. In most cases, they are volunteers. Where there are professional firefighters, of course, this is done by professional firefighters. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the situation in firefighting must be regulated by law, but in such a quick way that it is now intended to settle itself, it is simply not possible to regulate. By mid-December, professional firefighters had already alerted us to the irregular situation and the wage anomaly. The government responded to the statement's forecast by proposing a strike agreement on wage regulation or personal income. The Agreement was then signed on both sides. The Government then decided at the March session on the text of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Firefighters Act and sent it to the National Assembly for consideration. What happened, we know. Today, just before the laborers, she was rushed by the SDS Task Force. We are wondering why the SDS Group decided to regulate the situation of voluntary firefighters just before the end of its term of office and with this proposal, because they know that time will run out for adoption. In any case, we are all calculating and the SDS Group has done a calculation and has seen that there is more to be said in this area before the near-courage elections. It's a broad voter base. We are aware that the absence of voluntary firefighters from work poses both a problem for the employer and, of course, for the operational firefighters, and therefore it is stated in the law in force that compensation for the absence of part-time compensation for operational firefighters to their employers is the municipality or state authority, depending on who has the agreement or the fire company has the contract. It also provides insurance and preventive health checks for operational firefighters with the applicable law – again depending on the contract – and the local community or municipality. The proposal itself also lacks an assessment of the financial implications that would burden the country or the municipalities. However, we are proposing an additional pension insurance for each day of the fire service, professional firefighters already have their so-called modified internship, and this is undoubtedly due to volunteers who contribute greatly to our safety – for the time they are, of course, performing fire safety or safety and rescue tasks. The proposal has both positive and negative solutions before us, so in the Desus Group we will define ourselves before the proposal after the conclusion of the debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u61	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. She has the word as the first Mrs Ludmila Novak to prepare herself for the Mag. Bojana Muršič and Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I'm gonna go back to my own history a little bit. Voluntary firefighting has also been my experience since childhood, not least my father was the founder of a fire company in the city, the brothers were firefighters, and I know how firefighters risk their lives to help others. I remember a brother who jumped a few feet high off the barn, didn't have time to go down the ladder, only to be in a firehouse as soon as possible. I've always wondered when they went to the fires, if they'd come back healthy and happy, and I'm also wondering now that my son is leaving for the fires. When I tried to remind him that we had some important work at home, his view told me everything and I kept my mouth shut. And it's not just that this is happening to my family, I know that the vast majority of firefighters are doing their job with their heart and are in a place where people need help; not fire itself, we know that these days in natural disasters are just firefighters who save lives, assets and also that life can be brought back to normal in a place. Of course, no law is ideal, and it is probably not, but normally we do not have as many experts as individual ministries have, which can draw up more thorough laws, but I know that the status is not regulated, and that is why this is also a matter for discussion. I also met with firefighters as a mayor when I was looking at how many regulations the firefighters are bound by and how much funding the municipality has to provide for firefighting; both for maintenance of equipment, education, then fire trucks and so on and so on, and these are a lot of financial resources for each municipality. On the other hand, it is right, for doing firework is very dangerous, so it is right that they are well equipped, well educated and that as few accidents as possible occur. And another important role is played by firefighters. Of course, I know more about volunteer firefighters, because in professionals we think that firefighters are paid to do their job, but without some love, no one can do it either. Again and again, I said to myself how important training is being done by firefighters, not least through education in their own kind, but also through the education of young people. Firefighter societies have many young people of all generations in their ranks, and they are already preparing for quizzes, competitions, learning a lot of knowledge, and thus increasing the safety of the population as they learn how to act, how to deal with certain disasters, in certain circumstances. So besides security, it's an extremely important upbringing for young people. Thus, it can be said that firefighting is universally desirable, useful, and it is also appropriate that the status of firefighters, both professional and voluntary, be properly regulated. On the other hand, we have employers, but they must also be motivated in their own way, because if someone regularly goes to fires to save lives, people's property, then, of course, certain employers also have to be motivated by this, that there is no too much failure or that they also see some relief for themselves. [[…]] In short, if I finish. We know that firefighting is extremely important, I also support it, I see its necessity, its usefulness, but, of course, I want people who sacrifice themselves to work, to risk their lives, their health many times, to be understood and to be properly regulated – either in this law or in another. It is important that we all work together, either in this mandate or in the next, to actually settle the status.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u63	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Mrs. Janja Slug. Here you go, Mrs. Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Indeed, firefighting is one of the most important members of our system of protection and rescue, and personally, without voluntary firefighters, I cannot imagine it. I would like to point out that this role of firefighters has changed recently. Firefighters are not just the first to intervene in fires, captures, accidents, floods, pharynx, but in recent times they have been the first to intervene in traffic accidents, and they are increasingly interfering with health care when they are saving lives at heart. This has become more and more open, which I must say is certainly good, because it is important to stress that before urgent emergency assistance comes to the scene, life may already be lost. So it seems to me that the direction of volunteerism, voluntary fire companies, is good. That's why it's so much more important that we give it a special meaning. So if I'm looking in my neighborhood, it's true that in three settlements in the five-kilometre area, there are three voluntary firefighters. All these societies are doing enormous work, immeasurable self-sacrificing work. Many times, as I mentioned, it turned out that their first aid saved lives. Firefighters, I think, are no one here – we all respect them, both their work and their self-sacrifice, especially when they come to help unselfishly. It is certainly the common goal of all of us to ensure that their conditions are properly regulated. Above all, I know the work of volunteer firefighters, but we also have professional firefighters who are also doing their job. In the opinion of the Government, they also need to improve their position, because they have warned us of the errors we have in the system, with their statement, and some agreement has to be made. This agreement is agreed between the Government and the Trade Fire Syndicate, which is also crucial to all of us in order to reach the broadest consensus. The Ministry has drawn up this law, which unfortunately we cannot deal with, but with which we can solve a number of difficulties. In this law, which is consistent with stakeholders, a new paragraph will be added as gainful activities to enable firefighting to carry out other operational tasks of firefighting as a gainful activity, which is not defined in the current law. A new concept of operational fire operations has also been introduced. An extension is added for the permanent operation of professional firefighters carrying out operational protection and rescue tasks of 0,5 %, provided that they carry out these tasks for more than five years. There are a lot of these improvements that are ready, I believe that they would be a step in the right direction, and I sincerely hope that before this mandate expires, we will be able to get this under the roof. The aim of the law, cited by the proposer, is to eliminate the machete attitude of the State, which we demonstrate to the operation of the fire service. Is that true? The law we have today was passed in 2005, in your government, the government of Janez Janša. In the SDS position, we have heard that in the previous years of this mandate you have proposed changes — indeed, they have not been adopted. But you also had the opportunity in your other government when you had this responsibility to correct it with changes, and that did not happen. More importantly, you do not provide an assessment of the financial implications of the financing of additional health insurance and of additional pension insurance. I think that the law in this part is flawed, it is not systemic, as the predecessor said, it is not ideal and things should be solved slightly differently. The discussion was also about encouraging employers who employ operational firefighters. There has been talk of private employers, or private employers, whose loss of a worker means a lot to them. I don't know if this article, which is just mentioned, is going to save the loss of an employee in the workplace when he's doing an operational job, and I don't see it. Certainly, it is very important for the employer to carry out his work, and incentives will not save the work process. It is also necessary to think in a different direction here. There's a lot of stuff still open. I believe that every employer is difficult to miss an employed firefighter performing operational tasks on the ground. It is important to stimulate such employers, which I am actually attaching, but some compromise needs to be found. Certainly this law is a starting point for a solution, but I believe that a broader consensus must be found both with the Government and with the unions and with all the stakeholders involved in this law, that the law will be enforceable and that in practice it will bring what we all want – that the real life of these firefighters will be well rewarded. We must continue to recognize this humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u65	The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, prepare Mrs Janja Slug and Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go, Dr. Keating. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I have relatively little time to ask myself what Slovenian politics and the National Assembly must learn from firefighting, from this pathetic infrastructure of solidarity, as I call it, from one of the rare infrastructures where we do not share ours and yours. [[…]] Almost everyone here who comes from a suburban or rural environment has met with firefighting in one way or another. Someone's ever had a fire on their backs in a forest fire, someone else's, and now if Pojbic was burning a barn or a byte for me, I wouldn't go out, I wouldn't share who's in which party. This law is a set of desires that are important and not regulated properly. If we had a fire department, we could have a hybrid marriage in this mandate, settle down together and settle these matters. But that's not possible. I'll be honest with you, because of the magnitude of the SMC and SDS. We need to be a little bit more fire-fighting and a little less vehement in the next term. It's all about problems. This strikes again with the reform of local self-government. It's basically a volunteer system. I remember years ago when cheers were the main collection for new equipment, and we were shaking – the fucking road, but now the storm is coming or not? And we had a loss. Everyone we've ever seen in the fire department remembers that. It is likely that the purchase of equipment at some regional or national level should be reconsidered. Surely it is also necessary to consider what kind of compensation, but this is some matter that we really need to tackle in the fire, together, and I hope that those of you who will or will be elected to do so at the beginning of the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u67	Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare for Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Actually, I'm not gonna be acting smart on my own. As soon as I received this proposal for marriage on the table, of course, I did what I usually do when we talk about firefighters — I go to firefighters and ask them what they think. When I asked them what they thought about the proposal, they told me they didn't know what to think, because they weren't informed about it at all, because no one asked them. I have this in writing from the management of the Firehouse Association of Slovenia – my colleague Mahnic, I can send it to you and also in the field when I spoke to them. In fact, I have been talking to them since the beginning of the mandate, and this firefighter status has been exposed many times, and every time we are again, and they, the firefighters themselves, have found that we are actually imagining the status of the firefighter in different ways. Not me. They're on their own. They may have different views on the subject, from the municipality to the municipality, the management of the Firehouse Association of Slovenia, as well as each firefighter individually, when asked, has very different suggestions on what the regulation of the firefighter status would actually mean. But, you know, as Comrade Trček said, volunteer firefighters, as well as professional firefighters, who are mostly volunteers, carry out these tasks with their hearts, and for them this is not the work we are talking about here, but it is a way of life for them. You're either a fireman or you're not! This is essentially subject to their whole life, including family life, when we talk about the upbringing of a young man, and so on. The proposal states in this proposal that the proposal is intended to regulate the status of both professional and voluntary firefighters, which is not regulated in accordance with the needs or wishes of firefighters. I said something about those wishes. No one asked the firefighters anything, but it's very difficult to talk about what the firemen's wishes are if they didn't even know what you wrote in here. If I go further to the financial effects – what I have already said in the position of the Group of Members. In fact, the proposer says that financial consequences cannot be assessed, he fails to make this assessment, but says that the funds are provided. Once again, I would like to recall what has been said today, I agree that the municipalities may be overloaded by the need to provide firefighters with funds, because they provide both equipment and for the operation and for the operation and for insurance and much more, but because of your law, which has determined that it is for the public service of the fire department, of course, and then it is necessary to change it systematically, not here in this regulation just so. I will now go in line: Article 1 says that the status of an operational volunteer firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter. Who's the operational volunteer firefighter? This is a member of a voluntary firefighter company between the ages of 18 and 63 who has received an education for an operative firefighter. This is the definition of an operative firefighter. Now, whether this operative goes to any intervention or not, this obviously doesn't matter to you. And I think that the actual situation is very important because the situation in which these operative firefighters are can be very different. For example, in a voluntary fire company, one, I won't name it, they have 47 operative firefighters, but they actually go to intervention 20. What about these? Or for these, too? They're all the same. How are we going to define how we're going to do this? [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] You'd better listen to me, Comrade Mahnič, and when you listen to me, then you'll answer. Write to yourself. Instead of your phone, put a pencil in your hands. I'm asking if it's for you, too. In addition, there are firefighters who do not have the status of an operative firefighter, and in the firefighter society, as said by colleague Novak, they also deal with other things, with the upbringing of a teenager, with them working, teaching them, driving them to competitions. Or do you not deserve such treatment as you now say you are obviously — according to you — only operational volunteer firefighters; all the same. Here you are saying that employers are reduced insurance premiums and have tax exemptions. The government has already said that it has already been exposed several times today: insurance premiums. What insurance premiums? How much? How? Tax relief. What kind of relief? The taxes paid by employers can be very different, the taxpayers are very different. All operational firefighters are not in a working relationship, they are also somewhere else, some are students, some are self-employed and so on. How do you imagine this arrangement? I also spoke to employers because I think, as some here think, that it is also necessary to discuss with employers what is actually what would stimulate them: either hire firefighters, which would be great, or, of course, let them intervene. Employers in the field should also have the floor to tell them what is relevant to them at all. In fact, we do not define any amount of relief here, nor do we distinguish between individual jobs. We have an example; for example, in one voluntary fire company, where there are 20 volunteer operatives, there are three mailmen and these three mailmen cannot intervene if they are in their working hours, because this is impossible to carry out the work process. There are probably differences as to whether an operational firefighter is doing some work in production, where employers are bound to some hands to hold on to, where there are certain consequences, if they do not meet those deadlines, they lose their jobs and so on. Such an employer who, due to the absence of one employee, or two or three, will fail to fulfil his obligations and will lose his job, even one of these, I will say, a symbolic relief will mean nothing. Why am I saying this? Because the number of interventions in individual voluntary firefighting companies can also be very different. Indeed, the situation also depends on whether it is a larger place, where there is a professional unit, or not, it is a rather large congregation. In fact, there are 104 interventions in one municipality in 2017, and I do not know if we can imagine an employer who could miss his employee for 104 days a year. It's very hard for me to imagine. It is true that all the other smaller societies in this municipality have 5 interventions, for example, 4, 14, 16 or 8, that is true, but the main one covering the entire municipality had 104 interventions in 2017. Then, in fact, there is one structure of people that has a significant impact on the exercise of voluntary firefighting, which is girls and women. If you know the intervention of voluntary firefighters, then you know that with major interventions, natural disasters, and so on, their girls and women actively cooperate with the support, or even men, if you want to, when it comes to volunteer firefighters. They're always with them in firehouses, cooking them, taking care of them, taking some tea on the ground, and so on. I think that when we talk about regulating the status, that it is certainly necessary to keep an eye on those people who offer a complex support to volunteer firefighters. If I go further to Article 2, which speaks of providing funds for the provision of operational firefighters by countries – again, we do not know what kind of insurance we are talking about – and also regulates in the fourth paragraph to provide funds for the preventive health checks of operational firefighters by the State. Now, firefighters have their own proposals in health checks, which they have had for many years, and their solution, which they have actually proposed, has been different for many years, is the same, and relates in particular to how these health checks should be carried out, how and how the fire extinguisher itself should be responsible in doing so. Here I can say, then I'm going to be a little bit more detailed, that it's actually already in preparation for the solution to this point you're proposing, and I think it should be done sometime next week. As for the third point where you transfer insurance funds from the municipality to the country, however, my answer can only be the same as I said at the outset. These funds are now provided from the municipal budget because they are the existing tasks of the municipality and are also mentioned in the existing Article 6 and Article 8 of the Law. However, you are not correcting this Article 8 which means that there will be a double arrangement for the same thing; it is said that the existing law in Article 8 contains the tasks of the State and that in Article 6 the tasks of the congregation are not actually rectified. Come in. In Article 3, you propose that the State provide voluntary operational firefighters with funding for additional health insurance, and for each day of the public fire service, additional pension insurance. When I asked our firefighters how it would seem possible for them to do so, they have no idea how, for whom, who will execute it, who will coordinate these records for the days of intervention. What? Then your employer won't take it away from you, or will the country cover that difference? Who's going to control this, and how is he going to control it? In fact, firefighters have one system called Vulcan. This is one record of where these interventions are registered, but voluntary fire companies in Slovenia are a thousand 100 and, of course, every firefighter society registers these interventions in these records. And if I quote the former President of the Fire Federation of Slovenia, who pointed out these things and debated them. Mr Jakša said a while ago that there is no other control here than to count on honesty, the responsibility of people in society. Of course, I count on this honesty, but I wonder what the criteria will be. Will there be new criteria? How will the presidents choose who does, who doesn't? How's that gonna work? I don't know if you can remember, but probably those who are more involved with voluntary firefighting, in 1998, then Mobile, the current Telecom, gave all operational firefighters the exemption to pay the GSM subscription. At that time, the subscription was paid separately and the impulses separately. And then Mobile gave this benefit to operational firefighters so that their subscription would not have to be paid. This was, of course, the agreement between the Firefighters' Association of Slovenia and Mobile, and then, of course, the individual president of the voluntary firefighter's company issued a certificate to the operative firefighter, and with this certificate he went to Mobile and concluded a contracting relationship in which he was exempt from these orders. And suddenly, the following thing happened: that — because a number with the first three phone numbers for these operative firefighters was precisely fixed — significantly increased the number of these users. Why? Of course, because also the presidents of voluntary fire companies are extremely compassionate and good people and, of course, everyone he asked, they have been difficult to say no, the certificates have been issued and there have been more and more, so there is nothing wrong with them, but somehow these criteria need to be set. With this, we are probably putting into some awkward situation the presidents of voluntary fire companies; now they are all united, all for one, one for all, and then suddenly there are some differences between them. And it's a question of whether or not there's a difference between these things, which, of course, I believe, we don't want you, we don't want you. When we also talk about regulating their status, of course, several similar groups are included in the system of protection and rescue in addition to fire extinguishers. These are mountain paramedics who I think we can all agree that just like firefighters, they save people's lives and assets. Then there's the lobsters, then there's the underwater rescue service, and there's the scouts, and there's the campers, and they're the guides to rescue dogs, and so on. Then the question of what to do with them will open up here. Because if we start making arrangements, then we have to make arrangements for everything. I don't know how these things would work out. I find it interesting that, in fact, the SDS is declared as the largest firefighters' guardian and some champions in firefighting protection. This has also proved to be true in the last major fires, when the debates on this subject were on how to deal with it and how the firefighters intervened there, we watched their equipment destroyed and so on. At the time, SDS was very loud. And one wonders where that comes from. And I know that there are some things you've listed today, that you've proposed, about the blue light I'm not going to lose words at all, that's when I said everything in that debate. I think it would be wrong to say that nothing was done because in fact your government was doing damage to the firefighters at the time. In the time of the Janša government, Minister Aleš Hojs saw this area as an area where unnecessary administrative obstacles and bureaucracy are in place that hampers the economic initiative. This was written in the explanation of one law. In particular, he drafted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act. What was the fundamental effect of this law? Eliminating the agreement on fire protection for building and other use permits and transferring the responsibility for fire safety to investors, designers and contractors! If I now quote from the opening presentation of the representative of the proposed State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence in 2012, "for the construction of buildings, according to the fire complexity of the facility, a fire safety design or a fire safety study according to the Fire Protection Act is developed. The design or study of fire safety may be developed by a responsible designer who meets the prescribed conditions. The existing collection of data and records in the field of fire protection is reduced and simplified to the most urgent extent.” Some of the warnings given in the debate have already been given in the adoption of this law, i.e. they are mags. Perpetration and Staša Kos warned about this and also proposed amendments. The Ljubljana Municipality also responded at that time and the Ljubljana Municipality proposed certain things, namely that the law would include professional firefighting units that meet the conditions, have professional qualifications and would issue consensus on the provision of fire safety, carry out preventive checks and so on. Taxes on this decision, these changes in the law in 2012, if I quote Mayor Vrhnika – what does he say? These are not my words, these are the words of Mayor Vrhnika, who said in an interview with Dnevnik on 5 December 2017, “more than Kemis is guilty of legislation, because it did not require Kemis to have a fire plan”. And, of course, he did not have it until recently, because it is expensive and because it allowed the law from the time of the Janša government in 2012. This government, led by Mira Cerar, met with representatives of the security and rescue forces, including voluntary firefighters of the Savini region, when visiting the Government in the Savini region. He sat with them for quite some time and listened to all their suggestions, whatever they had to say: whether they were related to the status of the fire extinguisher, let them be related to their equipment. The Secretary of State from the Ministry of Defence was also present at the time and knows what the President of the Government was talking to the fire department about. What they were talking about at the time, some of the things that were exposed were also realized, and some are yet to come. One of the things they highlighted was the deadlines for technical inspections of vehicles used for the transport of children's groups in voluntary firefighting companies. This matter has already been settled, from 6 months to one year. This was adopted at the 36th regular meeting of the National Assembly on 12 December last year, where this solution was incorporated into the law with the amendment of the coalition. So, precisely at the wishes of firefighters; what was coordinated with them and what they appealed to, which means a direct removal of bureaucratic barriers to them, and, of course, to a large extent also costs. Another issue that has been highlighted for quite some time, which I mentioned earlier, is the regulation of medical examinations. This also means a disproportionate burden for them, both financially and on time, and it is also regulated exactly as proposed by the Fireworks of Slovenia. The Ministry of Health has prepared a proposal for an amendment to the Regulation, which is in the stage where it must only be ratified or signed by Mors and will then be published. Of course, they predict that it will be in the coming week, and this rule is actually what results from cooperation and coordination with firefighters. The next thing is the amendment of the Drivers Act, which we have submitted to the SMC and we are the first to sign or proposer with our colleague Prelog. There, however, there are specific solutions to the issue of conducting C examinations for voluntary firefighters, including precisely at the wishes of voluntary firefighters, in line with the Ministry of Infrastructure proposed for adoption following a reduced procedure, which you objected to at the College of the President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Marjan Pojbič and Mr Franz Jurša. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All those who listen to this session have heard from my previous speaker a thousand and eight reasons why not improve the status of a volunteer firefighter. My opinion is a little different. I know very well the status of the firefighter, their organisation and their operation from a voluntary fire company in the local environment to the municipal command, to a district fire liaison in a particular area and to the Fire Department of the Republic of Slovenia. This organization of rescue and fire protection in the Republic of Slovenia is very well organised; and not organised itself, even in the operational work extremely, works extremely well. My predecessors, too, praised this work of volunteer firefighters in the initial or most of their discussions, but in conclusion they said that this proposal, when we improve the status of a volunteer firefighter, we will not support it. I would say very contradictory were the discussions of the coalition MPs. Look, this proposal, it says a lot of praise, but when something has to be done for them, for those who really deserve it and there is no support for it. I will not now discuss those public servants who really do not deserve any credit, but there are a lot of those who do. That's just the opposite. This is, I would say, public administration of public service with an extremely high risk, but when we want to improve their status, there is no such hearing. It's hard to understand, but when you see how, what are the thoughts in the government coalition, then it's hard to understand. And in the end, of course, with promises, we will strive. Yeah, but when? We'll do our best, and these are the promises. Yes, but when will you strive? See, here on the table is a proposal that brings three improvements to the status of a volunteer firefighter, which regulates to improve his status as an employer, because we know that a volunteer firefighter is with the employer — if I say so — an unwanted worker. This status in employers has changed quite a bit. If I look at, say, this status or some type of voluntary firefighter in a company 30 years ago or today, there is a significant difference in this work. Of course, then, with our proposal to provide some funds for the insurance of operational firefighters as well as for the provision of funds for preventive health checks of operational firefighters. In short, it's about improving the status of a volunteer firefighter! I agree, however, that this proposal is not complete and that it does not fully address the status of a voluntary firefighter, it is likely that there is still something missing, but it should be added, but it is a start, it is a proposal, not just a promise: we will do our best. Yes, let us strive to support this proposal. It's an effort! Let's make a move to improve this status. Of course, I will absolutely support this proposal to improve at least one part of the status of voluntary firefighter in the Republic of Slovenia. And I'm very skeptical that certain firefighters don't agree. I have heard this for the first time today, or they think it only in Laska, as it has been presented that they do not agree with the proposal, so it is very difficult for me to believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Pojbič has the floor [[…]] Mrs. Servant, the replica. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u72	I have to replicate, although I'm sure that colleague Žnidar actually understood what I said was intentional deception. I never said I was against improving the status of a volunteer firefighter. On the contrary, I have been working precisely since the beginning of my mandate to improve this status. The problem is that what you wrote in these three articles in no way improves the status of the firefighter himself. Nothing. Neither the first nor the second nor the third article improves the situation of firefighters. I don't. What I said, three specific things that we have on the tables or have already been accepted, that's not thanks, that's facts. [[advertising from the hall]] Two on the basis of a fireman's interview directly with the Prime Minister of the Government and one of the laws you have on the table that we signed with our colleague Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please. Prepare Mr Franc Jurša and Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. So none of the firefighters want the kind of discussion that we heard here today in the National Assembly. It is a real great sadness on the part of the coalition's and the government's parliamentary groups that they can do their utmost to prevent all that is well-intentioned. As a member of the Voluntary Fire Company of the Lower Kungota, I am very proud of this, I know things, I know what we want to change with this law, but obviously the great majority sitting here in Parliament is far from knowing the real subject and knowing how to answer it properly. At the same time, at the very beginning, my dear firefighters and firefighters would welcome a fireman’s greeting: Help! I also have to say that I am very proud to be a member of the Voluntary Fire Association of the Lower Kungota, and I am very proud of the Fire Union of the Slovenian Mountains, which connects the municipalities of Pesnica, Kungota and Šentilj. I'm not dressed like that today because I'm proud of her. All those who are aware of this should be, and at least I believe that they could be proud of firefighters and firefighters. But when I listened to this coalition debate today, I will now read only one message that I received a few seconds ago, where the firefighter wrote the following – I am talking about Mrs Slug. “Tell the Servant that he has no idea and that you feel sorry for her because she was beaten and sacrificed in the SMC to speak nonsense. It is only about whether they want to help the firefighters or not, the rest of the talk was completely unnecessary and offensive to firefighters.” I got this message a few seconds ago and let Mrs Slug think of what she's saying here in Parliament. So, respectable colleagues and colleagues, and now we are going to this point, why we have actually tabled this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The government has drawn up a law that is still in their drawers. And, dear fellows, I will now read to you what one of the firefighters who knows these things well enough to know and write the following, and I will quote this. He wrote that this law, prepared by the Government, was that all that is red, which is more than 80% of the articles, are comments by the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, volunteers, the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters, professional firefighters and the Community Fire Rescue Departments of Slovenia or shorter, directors of institutions. It goes on to say that the law has been massacred by firefighters because of poor preparation, lack of respect for the wishes and needs of firefighters. The responsibility for non-admission or non-conformity lies solely with Minister Katičeva of the Social Democrats, who entrusted the drafting of the law and coordination with personnel who simply did not fit in. They would change unnecessary articles and not touch those that matter most about the status of the firefighter. The law began to be prepared immediately after the election, i.e. three years ago, and due to its inability to harmonise between all stakeholders, it is still in the drawer. And so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the coalition, who are responsible for this situation, look, I will now show you what kind of law the Government has drawn up. There are red comments, look at the articles, look at this page! Let's move on. Look at this side of the law making. Look at this side of the law making! And this is our ministry led by Minister Katič and represented here in Parliament by the Secretary of State. So, my dears, this is a disaster. 80% of the articles prepared in this law are against what I have said here, the Fire Association of Slovenia and so on and so forth, as I have written, as one of the firefighters wrote to me. At the same time, he wrote that I should also remind of the position of professional firefighters who carry out the largest number of most difficult interventions and who are really only about a thousand, but they are highly qualified, and these are those boys and girls who had to be told by some of the fiches that the government or the ministry, which Katičeva did not want to give them, were forced to come to Ljubljana and with transparency that Cerara's government was the first government not to appreciate their work. They fought for €30 to €40 net higher wages and the ignorance of the government and the ministry, Minister Katičeva, the SD, lasted more than half a year. Only after the meeting of the Defence Committee convened by Jean Mahnič did things start to turn around. When the pressure of professional firefighters was so high, they even threatened to strike. [[…]] [[ringing the phone]] - I'm sorry. Even with the sentence! And so on and so forth. I will not read this text any more because I think everything has been said. He also asked if they remembered the banners that were there when they were before the government: We are heroes to people and fools to you! Andrea Katič, show me your salary! A government that doesn't appreciate firefighters! And so on and so forth. And then here I'm listening, of course, to the debate of a party that is a portent in this national assembly, SMC, how they are fighting and what they have done to improve the situation in firefighting. Once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have not tabled this law in order to be exposed in any way to the fact that we want an election campaign and so on, which has been heard all along today. On the basis of what I showed you, this law, which is in a drawer that cannot be enforced, and what one of the firefighters here who knows what it is, made it clear that we couldn't have crossed our hands and wait for another government to move things here. That is why we have introduced this law, and I am convinced that all those sitting in this Parliament, regardless of which party you are, could confirm the law at first reading and then to second reading, if necessary, also convene an urgent meeting of the committee where this law could be completed with appropriate amendments. If only there was a will and a desire, and if you really wanted to help firefighters and firefighters! I have to say, I'm like a fireman hurt. About what I heard today: that SMC is against this law, that Desus is against this law – I apologize, if I have misunderstood, then I apologize to Desus – and that the coalition party that has the greatest responsibility is SD and Katičeva, together with my team, also against this law. On the other hand, it brings us such a smoldering – that is, it did not bring us into Parliament, but I did, because I was a fire extinguisher, come to this document. Look, I really can't believe it! And then in the SD they say they are aware of the problem of firefighters and respect them. And what else did she say? In order to do all the SD Group of Members in order to bring this to a close, it will be adopted in this mandate. On the one hand, they speak in the SD to respect firefighters and firefighters and, on the other hand, bring in such a law that is not acceptable. Which is not acceptable to anyone! So it means that they could have done it knowingly just so that nothing could change. Just as they are destroying the defence ministry, just as they are destroying agricultural policy in this country, they are destroying everything that is related to this law and when we are talking about firefighting and so on and so forth. It's an SD party, it's a party of Social Democrats! I hope that citizens and citizens, voters and voters will truly adopt the right solutions in the next elections, and that such parties will never again give a vote that does what I am talking about today and prove with evidence. Why we have proposed this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party and what we are saving with this law – once again I would like to stress briefly. First, of course, I ask the representatives of the Government and the representatives of the parliamentary groups – at the same time, I must say that I am sad that there is no minister here. Look, a thousand and one reason can be found for someone not to come here. But maybe it's somewhere in Serbia, and this option is never ruled out, and I don't know, but sometimes I would even think that she went on a trip again to the taxpayers' account, and that's possible. I ask the Ministry: Can you even ask yourself why we introduced this law? That's the first question. I also ask the Minister and you, who are here today, represent her: Do you even hope to lift your face and firemen and firefighters to tell them that we are going to the Slovenian Democratic Party? I also ask and first of all stress, as I have said before, we have been waiting for your proposal, but because we have found that you are unable to harmonise the law and that you have not been able to harmonise this law, which I have also presented here today, of course we have not been able to sit at the front of the Slovenian Democratic Party and wait for dissatisfaction in the firefighters. To the conclusion. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled a bill because of the three things we want to settle. By amending this law, we want to improve the status of a voluntary firefighter in order to stimulate the employment of firefighters by reducing insurance premiums for employers and providing tax reliefs. I also ask the Ministry and the coalition whether we are proposing too much. And if we suggest that the state provide means of insurance and medical checks to firefighters - is this too populism? I'm asking this coalition and the government. And to provide firefighters with additional health insurance funding, and for every day, public fire services also provide additional pension insurance – will you call it populism? Dear colleagues, in the Slovenian Democratic Party and as a firefighter, we ask you to do something good for the operation of firefighting in Slovenia. This time you have a chance, you have a chance. If you are an incompetent government and an incompetent coalition and until this moment, a month, two or three before the elections, you were unable to bring appropriate solutions to the table, we have come to your door in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we want to help you. I therefore expect that this proposal for a law at first reading will receive a positive agreement. And if we want firefighters and firefighters well, then I ask you to confirm this bill in the first reading, and then in the second reading, we can change the law in one way or another. So it will be acceptable for all of us here, regardless of the political color, and on the other hand, especially for those involved – when we talk about firefighters and firefighters and all those whom I have previously counted – who were involved in this story. Then we will be able to tell you the firefighters and firefighters justifiably that we are satisfied that you are not only calling us when you need us when you do not need us directly, but we are a third-rate story for you. I am fortunate to be both a fireman and a Member of Parliament and once again to say I am proud of this. I hope that firefighters and firefighters could see me today directly from the National Assembly. The messenger and the fireman. If you were more like me here in the National Assembly, this law would have been passed years ago. I hope and believe this because I have also heard today that there are some firefighters and firefighters, including commanders, commanders and so on. If we could get those together once, we'd say bob beans this time we've got this chance. [[…]] I believe that, and I ask you once again, because of what I think is right, and this is to help firefighters and firefighters, to step together and get away from those political squabbles. It's an election, and it doesn't matter. If we step together, if we all support this law together, we'll all get a vote from firefighters and firefighters, not just SDS, not just SD, not just Desus, not just SMC and so on. Except, I think, the United Left after what I've been listening to here, but she's so disappointed me that she really doesn't deserve any vote from firefighters and firefighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Franc has the floor [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural? Here you go, Dr. Keating. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u76	Yes, I would simply like to point out in a procedural manner that the United Left is not in Parliament. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Justifiably! Mr. Franz Jursha, please. Prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Of course, the question I am asking is, if you were to apply at this point, you probably wouldn't be able to do it anymore, because so many things have been said about this, that at the end of the day, there is almost nothing more to add. It is true, however, that a lot of such words have also been uttered, which are not exactly in conjunction with the law proposed in the SDS. Some of the solutions we know in this area, and we should use them in some way. The cases are not without a record in certain laws, and one thing, I say, can be carried out in the field of firefighting even without this law because they have a basis in another law. And I'll say a few more words about that. In our position, we have said that we will decide after the debate, so Tuesday we will vote on this and we will decide how we will vote. Now, here's the thing. It is very difficult, almost impossible to say that this has no catch before the elections. I too will speak with great caution; right now I have promoted myself to be a firefighter, and I am a firefighter for 50 years and so on and so forth, because my colleagues would resent me if I said something against them. I won't do that, even if we didn't discuss it, I wouldn't speak against firefighting, because I know it in the first place, as I said before, with voluntary components and professional components, when I was doing a job for firefighters' interests somewhere. On the whole, we must be aware that at the local level, we have the mayor's or mayor's chief firefighter, and we have the Prime Minister's main firefighter at the state level. Of these two functions, it is crucial how the field of fire is regulated. Of course, the law should in some way provide more favourable conditions for the operation of firefighting. We have things arranged, as I said, but we should provide more favourable conditions for the operation of both professional and voluntary firefighting. Look, the refund pays. Refunds may be made in accordance with the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. If the firefighter performs the task, his employer may request that this be refunded to him from the municipal budget or from the state budget, if that unit is of national importance. The categories of fire companies are very important here. We know five, six categories. I'm not going to be right now, not me, someone has already said today that we're not going to say one category more or less, but we have them, depending on the area where that voluntary fire company works. The main fire company and, in some ways, the largest fire company has the task of doing so more or less in the area of the entire local community, but, of course, it is assisted by companies with a lower category. As I have already mentioned, for companies that have a contract at local level, local community funds must be provided for the refund, and at national level this must be provided by the State; it is said that the competent ministry or how flows within the finance and these matters are already taking place at national level. Additional insurance is already in place at some levels. In accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the Fire Service, voluntary firefighting companies as representatives of their link at local level have signed an appropriate contract with the mayor, in which they are defined. I'm not gonna say now that everyone has it, but more or less, they've got it covered. Additional insurance for firefighters in the event of accidents and so on, too, is a very important segment that needs to be regulated in some way more appropriately than has been regulated so far. As I said before, firefighters are doing a very noble job and they are also more or less appreciated in society and, of course, they go to a high price, and we probably have a special relationship with them within the National Assembly, even though we have not done these solutions, we could have saved them, but we have not. Now I will not challenge the initiative, the Slovenian Democratic Party has also brought this proposal, but I think that the law should be even more complete in order to actually have all these open issues resolved in some way. I also want to expose professional firefighters. At the time when they were in the Republic Square, some of us went among them, listening to them, as far as we heard them, because it was dreadfully loud, but later we were able to understand all the requirements they actually had. I must say, at the first stage, this negotiation with firefighters was led by the Minister of Public Administration. Of course, the Minister of Defence was also involved. Now, if the Minister has made enough efforts to resolve this, at this point he would not even claim to be, nor would he claim to be. I think she was trying as hard as she could. If you have a financial minister behind you, President of the Government, then you belong to a client who has it, it's a little easier than it is if you don't belong. It's a little harder. And there's one more thing. It's not enough for you to go to the fire department once and listen to their problems. You need to be constantly connected to firefighters to know how they breathe and what firefighters need. Any contact is welcome. Not only when firefighters arrive, but usually come and bring an annual calendar, because they in some way provide funds for the purchase of their equipment, for a co-financing share, which they also have to co-finance to a large extent. You also have to go to their reunions, in case you're thirsty for fire equipment and, of course, it's very nice if you're like an MP or the mayor of godfather for this event. This also means that you financially support them. We do this more or less according to our abilities. I am proud to be able to participate in such matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Prepare Mr. Janko Weber and Mr. Zvonko Lah. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u80	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Today we have repeatedly heard that we respect firefighters, but when there is a bill on the table, at least the coalition majority says we will do so in the next term. So much for the seriousness of this coalition and these governments, when they have concrete proposals for measures to address the area of firefighters and firefighters in Slovenia. For starters, this is not the first one, but if the debate goes to such a direction today, nor is the last attempt in this mandate by the SDS Group of Members to try to help our firefighters. We have tabled amendments to the budgets several times in this mandate, and we have been unheard of. Personally, I was with my colleague Jean Mahnič an incentive for those 2 million for firefighting equipment in the 2018 budget. And what happened? This coalition, which speaks of how the bill itself has a proposal in its drawer, and this coalition, which speaks of how it will resolve it in such or other composition in the next term, has opposed it. We had an intervention bill, we tried to solve individual matters inside, this same coalition, and that same government said that no, changes to the Fire Act were needed. As the government does nothing or, as previously shown by its colleague Pojbič, makes a catastrophe from the draft bill, the proposal of the SDS Group in the system law will come again to resolve individual matters. In short, it is not the first proposal of the SDS Group to resolve matters, and it is not the pre-election time that matters are to be resolved. They want to solve matters because the coalition cannot or does not want to solve them. Then it will be the government's opinion on the proposal for a law. I quote, the Government writes, "the proponents of the bill justify the proposed solutions by requiring firefighters, in particular the voluntary ones, who, due to the nature of their work in the event of natural and other accidents, are always the first to offer assistance and risk their lives in their work, to improve their status and working conditions as much as possible, and therefore to provide the necessary financial resources." However, the Government will on record write the following sentence, “The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed additions to the Firearms Act”. In short, the government does not support solutions to help firefighters, in particular voluntary ones. Interesting thinking. Then today we listen to how the government will do. And then the explanations of the government, which, like parrots, have been repeated by most coalition Members, follow this view. And I would dissect them a little, given that this government is so unconstant. The Government notes from the outset that the principle of certainty is necessary, which requires the preparation of generally understandable and clear rules. We have a very clear and very simple regulation ahead of us. Dear representatives of the government coalition and government! Only in this last, apparently, regular session of the National Assembly will you see the laws you have adopted. It's creaking! This is not the opinion of the SDS Group but the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. They were crumbling, which, if anyone were to do so, were contrary to the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, which did not respect the legal standards that did not fall within the system laws and so on – but you pressed the key for these laws. But when there's one law at first reading that's being dealt with, if there's an emergency session still to be resolved, this coalition is against. In short, the Government further states that regulated tax content in non-tax laws is generally not permissible. Dear Members of the Coalition, who have supported the Agriculture Act tabled by this Government. What did the Legal and Legal Service say? Not only is the problem that the Agricultural Act interferes with the system of tax laws but it interferes with the system of labour law, it interferes with legal regulations that do not even belong to the laws, but you still put pressure on the "for" button. So much for the consistency of this government, which does not hope to write one simple law, comes after us for reasons of five veins, why it will not support the proposal; we do not support the law because it is the SDS's proponent. At least in the last session, under one of the last laws we deal with, we could admit it. The key problem is the proponent, all the rest are floscules and, uglyly said, beating, why marriage isn't good. Next thing. According to the Government, the transfer of municipal burdens to the country could result in a so-called public fire liaison, which would result in a heavy liability and a heavy financial burden on the country. With this you have proven for the last time in this term that for local self-government, according to your household, it is down to you. Let us give local communities new commitments, new financial commitments, this is the paradigm of this government. But when the proposal comes that says, no, let's put something from the local community back in the country, and the government says, "It's a big responsibility and a big financial burden on the country." Firstly, it is a very small responsibility to be transferred from local communities to the country, and secondly, it is a small financial burden to move from local communities to the country. So many laws have been passed in this mandate by members of the coalition, not members of the National Assembly, members of the coalition, when you have burdened both the substantive and the financial local communities. Today is the latest proof that you are part undertakers of local self-government also in the field of regulating the fire issue. Next thing. The government writes, "The government notes that each bill must also contain an assessment of the financial implications for the country". In the last three months, how many laws have you filed by members of the coalition, especially from the SMC, where your own Minister of Finance has asked whether this is even healthy. And what did most of these laws say? We have no idea how much it's gonna cost, but we'll figure it out. And everyone was busy with these laws and the pressure. But not when the SDS proposal comes, which is not exactly defined by a million financial resources, but this is not going through. But if there is a government law, it is a joy: a million, 10 million, 15 million — with ease, for it is only a government law. To conclude, the stupidest and the whole mandate repeating words why marriage is not appropriate. The government emphasises that it has been working all the time to improve the situation in the field of firefighting. This is how you support the field of firefighting so that you do not support the proposals of the SDS Group, except once you have a little hint at the positive direction of solving the problem of firefighting, and otherwise you have opposed it. To end the paradigm of the paradigms of this coalition. The Ministry of Defence is also preparing a starting point for the new Firearms Act, which will be better. Did you see what my friend Pojbich showed you before? We'd get a beet, a beet! It is only that this law, which has been criticized by the Firefighters Association and all other stakeholders in the field of firefighting, is brought into force by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Again, it would be: contrary to the constitutional order, contrary to the hierarchy of the legal order and some other things. But the government is preparing. Good morning, Your Honor. You've been in power for three and a half years and you come to the last session with: The government is preparing. It's either the guilt or the ministers or the officials of the first, second, third and last leagues. What are you doing to this country? You always apologize for your lack of support for the SDS proposals, because you will handle them and there is no place for them. In short, a lot of indictees are that the key problem in this law is only one – the wrong proponent. And when you face the next natural disaster, go to the firefighters and tell them, yes in the 2015–2018 mandate, we had a huge opportunity to help you, but we waited for laws by the Ministry that were not there, but we were so politically correct that we rejected the good proposals of the SDS Group, and you know what the response of firefighters who help in such or other natural disasters will be. You're gonna get kicked in the ass and I'm telling you, that's right! And I'm just an interrogated firefighter, unlike my two brothers who have bigger rank. And that's right. I told them when they saw a policy that would promise to solve the situation in the field of firefighting for all those who helped with the fires that helped with the flood, which were not the end of the day, I would be cruel, drag the bodies out of the Sava River, do not hope for those firefighters or do not want to help, whether it was voluntary firefighters or professional firefighters. As in many other matters, this government and this ministry have received an assessment called enka, a flower. Lately, the new government is coming; and not this government that promises again, the same faces that have been shot with old personnel, but a government that, regardless of whether it is in opposition, is preparing serious proposals. This marriage, perhaps with some trifle to be done under the Law and Law Service, would be a great basis for all of us to show that we care about firefighters together. Tuesday’s vote will show who cares about firefighters and their problems, and who, according to their own words, is hanged down. I'll support the bill myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u82	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I think we can peacefully say that volunteering is crucial, that we can cope with the worsening natural disasters and, finally, with the worsening hardships of people, that is, 400 thousand people are already at the brink of poverty. But if I go back to this marriage. This law touches on certain urgent matters to be regulated in voluntary firefighting, both the relationship to the employer where the firefighter is employed, as well as, of course, the provision of funds for the insurance of operational firefighters and the provision of funds for health checks and the financing of additional health insurance for each day of the public fire service. That's the part that this law wants to settle. However, I would like to point out that in all of this we must be careful that this neoliberal policy, the impersonal policy of knitting an invisible network around a voluntary firefighter who is certainly one of the most numerous organisations within volunteerism, is 130 000 volunteer firefighters, and how this network is created. Every president of a voluntary firefighter's company is responsible for whatever happens wrong in society. Yesterday we passed a law on deleted companies, how severe this direct liability with its own property is when something happens to the company. People are actually in a hopeless situation. This is one of these networks set up in the Society Act. Come in. If we take a quick look at: medical examinations for work at altitude. When it is a natural disaster, the wind carries the roofs — whom do we see on the roofs? Fireman! Are we providing them with funds for high-level health checks? They have to take care of it themselves, and the country should go against it. Then, new duties with the so-called first intermediaries. The Ministry of Health remembers that through the Directorate of Protection and Rescue we have a very well-organised network of information, number 112 works, voluntary firefighters have all the invitations that they, of course, also receive within the fire brigades and these first rescuers, according to the Ministry of Health, are now the ones who will be the first to help someone who has failed. And all of a sudden, someone who's completely different education structures is not gonna be a medical technician, let's say, the first lifeguard. What if he gets hurt in this rescue and someone sues him for it? But the Ministry of Health puts this on a voluntary firefighter and a network of the Department of Protection and Rescue. A completely inappropriate measure! This is this invisible network that I'm alerting and which is involved in voluntary firefighting. Last but not least, insurance for injuries at work. Look, when it's a natural disaster, it's not just the operatives that go out on the ground. As a rule, a large majority of firefighters are coming out, which is available at the moment of an accident. Everyone can have an accident, not just the operative firefighters. Also, all other firefighters need to be provided with insurance in case of injuries at work, or, of course, they can be on their own backs and families when something bad can happen to them when they want to help and actually help others. Of course, all these insurances must be settled by the State and, last but not least, the liability insurance as such is right to provide for the State as well. This is the whole spectrum, in short, the activities by which voluntary firefighters are burdened and exposed, but the country withdraws at a time when funds must be provided at least for these urgent checks, insurance and all to prevent, say, family tragedies because someone who wanted to help had the same bad luck in doing so remains only his concern and only his concern. In short, the attitude towards voluntary firefighting is impossible and impossible with all these measures that I have listed, to destroy what is actually a trade mark for Slovenians, if I may say so. We all recognize each other as volunteer firefighters. It's the pride of Slovenia. Of course, we can also give this to professional firefighters and many other volunteers who solve it either in the mountains or in the caves or as the Red Cross or as Karitas, in order to alleviate these problems that arise when someone is in distress in an accident. And we don't give that responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah, it is time to prepare Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today, much has been said about voluntary firefighters and firefighters, and I would join all those who support this law and who think that firefighters, both of them, are under-served. It is a pity that Mrs Janja Sluge is not here, who is supposed to get to know this very well, because she asked the firefighters about it, but I think that I am a firefighter myself for about 30 years, that she knows little about it. If she were the mayor, you might know more because the mayor in the municipality is in charge of fire protection. Fire protection is not just a fire rescue, it is also in all other natural disasters, in the event of floods, in the event of road accidents. The volunteer fire company I belong to has a highway rescue concession because it's close to the highway, and it's small, and it has just over 100 members. Such a solution is very difficult and operational firefighters must also be able to do so. So what the predecessor said holds everything. The skills of firefighters are practically based on the Society Act and the President is responsible. While the municipality provides some equipment resources under the contract, these funds are insufficient everywhere. The Municipality of Ljubljana also provides only a proportional part of the funds for the purchase of equipment, not entirely, but only a small municipality. Training of operational firefighters, from working at altitude, working with a motor saw, training for breathing appliances, all medical examinations, which is not so easy, to handling all this technique, including the technique that professional firefighters have when they come to the fire, so that voluntary firefighters can also take the equipment into their hands, because sometimes because of more accidents only a few professional firefighters will come to the fire and then others will have to take their technique into their hands. It's not that simple. Above all, what a colleague said earlier in traffic accidents, if a volunteer firefighter is more than a rescue service, he must be able to handle accidents, including accidents. Therefore, they are being trained more and more in this direction. This is a lot and more knowledge is needed. The firefighters learn this with a hand, but the responsibility is on him, on the president of society and then on the mayor, and the country is in the air somewhere, far away from the eyes. It happens that we are now buying firefighters fishing boots and rubber boats. Fireman. Fireman. Imagine that. Because when there is a flood, there is no other flood. Who's gonna go rescue, save cattle from barns, save people? Our firefighters were on their way, and when she was swimming in the Sava in Krška village, to rescue the pigs from the rafters, she was probably the firefighter for the first time in the boat, unless he went to sea. But he had to save himself. The state doesn't take care of it. We used to – when we talked about chimney activity, how we arranged it, I always said that it was closely related to fire activity. Sometimes firefighters used to control chimneys in front of every winter, inspecting them. Now they're also looking at hydrants, and it's their job, because when it comes to fire, the hydrant has to be trained, and that's why it has to be checked every once in a while. That's what firefighters do, not managers, like utility companies. Therefore, this is one complex task and very difficult, especially for operational firefighters, and the state should take care of it differently, as is now being done. As for the law in preparation, I agree with my colleague Pojbič, the law has begun to be prepared at the beginning of the mandate and now, at the end of the term, you still have it in your drawer. And that it is not in harmony with all the stakeholders who will need it, as it is said — who then prepared it? Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I said here that the Ministry of Agriculture should send their referees to farmers, to farmers, to learn something before they start making laws. Right now, I'm going to say about this ministry that we need to send someone to the fire department, go to some action, and then sit down and write the law. But the one who came from college as a professor is writing laws, we don't need them, and we're going to have to send them back to school soon, but to practical school, not theoretically. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, me, buddy Duck, a lot of things, yeah, who should also be excluded from this, not all of them. In fact, with us, I find that we have a big problem with bureaucrats who are bureaucraticly making up rules for all those who work in the field. In the field, however, the matter is significantly different than in the office, such as the theory. In the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, they use people from the field, from practice, and invite them to state authorities to somehow transfer their practical experience there into regulations used by those on the ground, and we do not. In a number of areas. And that's the way it is with firefighters. If we do not take care of these firefighters, it can also start the other way around — that young firefighters will no longer engage. There are already difficulties in getting operational firefighters, both the number that each society must have by categorisation and then also to train. This has already been felt in many other societies in the countryside. The growth and activity of various societies was there 20 years ago and then in the years 2004 to 2008, when the government was still hearing about local self-government and indirectly for social activities, including others. Now there is a decline in the interest of these societies. Not yet, but the fire department's still very busy. Let me mention the competitive activity that our firefighters are doing. If you don't know, colleagues and colleagues, our societies are among the leading and best in Europe, as far as the competition is concerned. They achieve very good results, and in all categories they are at the top, and the state does not listen to this activity. Although voluntary firefighters, if they want to be in the competition line, they are almost professionals or semi-professionals if they want to achieve such results. When they reach the results, we all boast, they are accepted by the President of the State, the President of the Government is taking pictures with them, but not much of what they have, not top athletes. We are not aware that, in addition to their basic activities, they are still competing, and they devote a great deal of their time to this. They associate with each other, exchange experiences, and this is also a great advantage because there is no time for this in the fires, then it must be put out. I know because I am a member of one such society where the current state champions and they were also at the Olympics, how many are the denials of these young boys, who are also excellent operatives. We should have respect and I support this law and the parliamentary group as a whole, because we are aware of it. We come mainly from the countryside, and we know what this means, but the government will not be able to help itself with that marriage or now it has nothing to do with it, because it is the end of the mandate, as well as the next government, as Pojbič has shown, will not be able to do much with it, but it will have to be done again to make the marriage better for our firefighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. I would certainly expect the Secretary of State to intervene in the debate and tell Members whether their statements are correct or not. Unfortunately, by the time the debate was under way, the Secretary of State had not responded at all, which I find scandalous. In fact, the Secretary of State does not depart from all recent cases when state officials come to explain, to defend their positions, to comment on their statements, but to remain silent. The second observation, which is that we have tabled a pre-election law, is that it is a topic for a pre-election debate. Those Members who have been here since the beginning and have actively monitored and participated in the work of the National Assembly could probably know that we have done a great deal in this mandate, including in this area, in the field of the regulation of firefighting. We have proposed certain amendments in all these budgets to provide more money for the operation of the fire service, firefighting activities, and we have also proposed some legal solutions. If this were accepted when it was on the table, when it was necessary, nothing should be reported to anyone that anything was pre-eminent. After all, when I think that we have dealt with the intervention law in December or January, the members of the coalition have informed us that we have proposed those solutions in a non-systemic law. Nobody said they were bad, except they weren't put in the right marriage. So if we were to accept this solution at the time, we wouldn't bother, and what would be adopted would not be in this law. So you simply led us to the fact that we also had to put these solutions into the system law. That's what you've got on the table now, the Fire Act. But now that this is in the system law, it is wrong again for the same population of Members who see all possible fears when the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes something. It saddens me, too, when a Member or Member of Parliament says that this law for firefighters brings nothing. Now I ask if it is better for a firefighter to lower his insurance premiums and have tax reliefs because he hires a firefighter. Is the situation that we are proposing better or worse, or does it bring nothing at all? Mrs Slug here has been vehemently saying that this law brings nothing in the opinion of her fellow firefighters from Lashko. Let's say another example, is it that providing the means to secure operational firefighters, better regulation than before, bringing something for a firefighter or not? Is it, for example, that funds are provided for the health checks of operational firefighters from the budget better than is now regulated, or is this worse? Is it better to finance additional health insurance for operational firefighters and then additional pension insurance than it has been so far, or is that worse than ever? I am deeply saddened that between us Members have such capacities that they cannot even evaluate whether what is proposed is better than what is existing or worse than what is existing. How can such a Member be responsiblely involved in the work of the National Assembly, in making decisions if he can't do so, is that a plus or is that a minus what is proposed? If such a Member is still a member of a team that decides everything in this country, it's called a coalition, it's a scandal at all! And to teach the Slovenian public and the fire department that it doesn't bring anything, it's a horror. How does a Member have to take such a right that because he does not know, because he cannot evaluate the solution, explain what is good or bad, better or worse than so far? It is not surprising to me that you have led this mandate to the situations in which we are, because you simply cannot handle this nor can you do a comparative analysis between the situation and during the proposal. Better, worse, plus, minus. And as long as you will, such will manage the Slovenian state, then you can cross up, down, across, diagonally, however, you will always get bad solutions out and a bad situation in this country. So be a system analyst on this one or those colleges, anyway. It doesn't matter. I'd like to point out another relationship here. In this mandate, this coalition has easily provided enormous funds for illegal migrants, for a package of all arrangements of arrangements, from accommodation to food, safety, insurance and so on. For migrants, illegals, those who should be deported quickly. This was for EUR 123 million or 125 million. A bunch of these empty capacities are still on some standby and this is also being paid, booking these matters. But we can't or can't provide, I don't know, EUR 3 million to improve the situation of those who operate on interventions in this country. They're our citizens, they're our employees, they're our parents, they're the fathers of school children and so on and we can't give them anything. If an intervention fireman like that gets hurt, he'll probably have long-term problems with everything that's possible. There'll be no contributions, he'll be guilty, he'll probably be guilty of damage to his intervention, and so on. In short, deprived of everything, instead of helping him. Just because he has been injured in some charity and emergency action, he will benefit from all those minuses everywhere, from insurance onward. Deprived of retirement, in additions and so on. What kind of country are we, what kind of coalition are you?Oh, my God! How do you feel about those who oppose this solution? I would expect the government to support the law, to support the coalition's marriage and possibly to add to that or to repair ours for so much that it's even better than it is. To be useful so that we can get more out of this. It is sad to say that this is not good enough to bring nothing, but it is sad for people who are supposed to be professionally involved in the assessment of marital matter. If a person does not take a step into the marriage and teaches here, perhaps even has the position of a parliamentary group, and does not even know what this is about, then it tells all about the sending group. At this moment, such a parliamentary group is even the largest in the National Assembly. Even the biggest. And if these people are unable to judge and determine or assess the benefits of the law in some appropriate way, then the Slovenian public must be told that nothing can and cannot be done. The fact that the Ministry has failed to prepare some solutions for the entire mandate is an additional problem. So there is also no surplus within the coalition in this area in the human resources sense. I think that the ministry should take the proposal, which is on the table, with both hands, give a positive opinion, give consideration, give its suggestions, if you have, what is better, we will easily turn it on, not just because someone proposed it in a period that he did not choose, but was suppressed – but it is necessary to fix it – and the kind words are completely incomprehensible and scandalous at the end, if I may say so. As far as our Group is concerned, we will support this law and I will vote for it myself. Of course, I expect better solutions than others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate. The word has magic. Milos Bizjak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u88	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Mr Tanko, I was going to come by, but my time is limited, five minutes, so I will try to say as quickly and as clearly as possible, but also answer to the Slovenian public. First, I would say that the care of fire safety and the organisation of rescue services is one of the original competences of the congregation. Your proposal provides, inter alia, for the State to provide funds for insurance and preventive health checks. Such arrangements could also mean supporting the municipal public fire service, but this is not the biggest problem and could also be agreed upon. I will answer the question in which I was directly challenged. Mr Jan Mahnic, President of the Defence Committee, cited the conclusions adopted in the Sežana at the time. I answer and say that all conclusions are realized, not in perfection, but we have all realized. And I state what we have realized: replacing land with the municipality of Sežana, where we will enable the construction of the fire brigade, helping to prepare documentation for the construction of a fire house in Sežana, where there will also be a warehouse of civil protection, and with the Slovenian Railways we have acquired funds or helped to obtain two fire extinguishers, namely two fire companies, the Voluntary Fire Company Dol and the Voluntary Fire Company of Osp, and also cross-border cooperation with the Republic of Italy for fire safety. Now that Mr. Pojbich is here, let me tell him. With whom you speak from firefighting, of course, it is not a matter of the Ministry of Defence or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we are talking to legitimate representatives of all firefighters' organisations, as well as all companies operating in the field of firefighting, and together with them we are preparing legislation in the field of firefighting. What you, Mr Pojbič, have shown to the Slovenian public and Members is a typical deception. That's what you've been showing the comments that all stakeholders have made in writing the law. These are the first comments that have been made. Since then, when these comments were made, we have made two coordinations and the law has been in line with the Firehouse Association and with the fire companies. However, we put it in the drawer because of the strike agreement, because it had to be resolved first through a rapid procedure. I believe, Mr Pojbič, that you have received some dissatisfied firefighter who may not have been able through his authorities in the Gasilian relationship or through the authorities in the very societies of his comments and he has got his way through you so that you can say it. And I say here today that you have deceived the public because the laws are harmonised. What you pointed out to the Slovenian public was comments before we carried out the harmonisation of the law. On your question, you asked me why I think you made a marriage – I don't know that. My personal opinion is that this is a pre-eminent gesture that you wanted to show the firefighters that you are interested in, otherwise I can't find another reason, because when you were in the government, all of this could have been done when you say that it is – and these problems have been done since you were in the two governments. But I don't think you went to Parliament in firefighters' uniforms at the time. I can't answer the question of whether you've asked too much. I can't answer that because you don't know how to calculate the financial consequences arising from the law. And also, Mr Tanko, you say that we cannot be defined by the law that we should – because we cannot – because you do not know how much financial consequences the measures proposed by the law require! I can't calculate these financial consequences either, because the terms you use are indeterminate. Insurance — What Insurance? Disability, pension, health, compensation? Taxes — What Taxes? Then you even have categories written in — which categories should these measures apply to? For categories of new employees because this measure falls under employee stimulation, or for all firefighters and also for volunteering? Therefore, you cannot expect us to clearly identify ourselves with your bill if you have failed to calculate the financial consequences. This is a basic matter, if you have clean and clean, you should calculate the financial consequences, and then you could also tell the Slovenian public what and how much you want to give to the firefighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Today we listened to extremely interesting thoughts. There's been a lot of talk about what happened 12 years ago and about how the elections are coming, and what's going to happen there and what's going to happen and what's going to happen and what's going to happen. There is only one thing you have mostly forgotten — who it is in this case. This law is written as a law to repay voluntary firefighters for all the noble mission they carry out. Voluntary firefighting in Slovenia is more than just what the word says is also an integral part of the cultural tradition of Slovenia, it is embedded in Slovenian culture. In a way, voluntary firefighting is a very good example of Slovenian values, those fundamental values which are an integral part of our culture, the real Slovenian culture. As a result, the attitude that has been shown here today is shameless. That's top-of-the-line rudeness. These solutions that were before you today — let me repeat them. It's three sets. The first is to stimulate employers to employ voluntary firefighters, or those who are already employed and are operational volunteer firefighters, in order to have certain benefits when employed to compensate for what means the absence of one of the operational firefighters who is called upon to carry out his duties. There's been a lot of speculation here today as much as you'd like when we suggested it. For we have not proposed this for the first time, we have proposed this now after we have proposed this in the law to abolish the end of last year. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, go look at your statements, you are for all three sets of proposals, in addition to the above mentioned issues of insurance and pension benefits when someone goes on his noble duty, when the operational firefighter performs his job – by the way, the question is always raised, and now the ministry representative, who is concerned, has been asked. Operational firefighters, not members of fire companies as a whole, but operative firefighters. It's in the law, you just have to read it if you want it, of course. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, I stress this when we considered the law on the consequences of natural capture, you said the same one you discussed today: "We absolutely support, these are good solutions, I do not oppose, no, this is a great solution," what I know, what else has been said, "you know, this is not the right law, we will do it systematically." This was the red thread of the coalition's discussions when we discussed the law to remedy the consequences of the natural grip that hit Slovenia last December, December 10th and 11, if we are precise. Systemic. Ah, come on. And then you introduced the law, the only law proposed by this government at that time, and you can see that, of course, there are no such solutions, there are no voluntary firefighters in it at all. You only proposed a law regulating what you agreed to negotiate with professional firefighters. By the way, the cost of those negotiations exceeded what you give to professional firefighters in this law if someone has not calculated it yet. This is, by the way, comparable to the cost of one Ahmad Shamieh, but for Ahmad Shamieh there is no problem in this country, but for firefighters it is always. Now, let's take a look at this system of voluntary firefighters you proposed. She's not here. And it can no longer be physical because the government has fallen. That is to say, your system’s arrangement — ratings, thanks, concrete actions — for volunteer firefighters is that they get nothing. But when we propose such a law, the interference begins. First of all, when you first consider it, under a second name a few months ago, you say, "Great solutions, we all support it, we're in, we're going to do it systemically." Then of course it's nothing because you don't do your job either as a government or as a coalition. Let's put this in again, this time within the framework of the law you've been talking about all the time, within the framework of the Firearms Act. And now it's shrinking. Everything sucks, you're opposed to solutions, they're not set. In fact, certain things are difficult to calculate, but it is not exactly any giant money. Most can be calculated on the basis of the available data, with a ranking of some EUR 10 000. It's not even about any big money. But this same government, ladies and gentlemen, and this same coalition is 123 million like this. [[shows with gesture]] given overnight for illegal migrants, for those who entered the state of Slovenia illegally, but for voluntary firefighters, some 10,000 euros is an insurmountable problem. Indecisive. “No, we will not give it.” Here you can see this perversion of values that left-handed people have. When leftists systematically regulate the issue of voluntary firefighters, voluntary firefighters get nothing, and you call it a system solution, a system-wide arrangement. That's exactly what you've been doing in the last few months, and everything else is purely sedition. There's a lot of insults going on. A party whose brilliant president said that Achilles' exports are the fifth of the Slovenian economy teaches others about expertise. You know what, go to primary school or kindergarten or sometimes do something not only for state expenses, but also for private. At least be co-owners of some company, but you'll have no idea what you're talking about. Because, of course, with such statements, you only say nicely what von Hayek, Nobel laureate for the economy, said. Von Hayek, Nobel laureate, said that if leftists had any idea what they were talking about, and if they had any idea about the economy, they would never be left-handed. Very simple. The best evidence for this was this debate today. Of course, people get help if they want to. Firefighters are in some way applying the will that I claim each true Slovenian has in his nature to help the one who really needs help. But they have to be helped, too. They need to be helped by adapting the framework within which they work to the changed situation and, of course, improving the conditions for their work, so that they can thus be returned to them by actions, ladies and gentlemen, not only by words, but also by what they contribute to society. One of the things that didn't seem important years ago, but today I know that I have friends who have problems with it is when a volunteer firefighter is employed in a private company. For public administration, this is not of particular importance; it is in one way or another a matter of public interest, by definition. When it comes to a private company, however, the problem is that the interest of a private company is efficient work, good work, competitiveness, income generation, profit, and, of course, the absence of one person, who can be very important in some key place in the company, means quite a problem. In order to bridge this in some way to repay ourselves in order to help volunteer firefighters, we have proposed a provision on stimulation covering two, the issue of stimulation and tax incentives. This should still be defined in the additional law, certainly within the framework of possible, but first and foremost, you yourself said that when we considered such solutions in the law on the elimination of the consequences of the natural concept in order to introduce these principled provisions into the law governing firefighting. And now exactly what you all said at the time was right to go in the right direction is proposed here. And now you reject them because your priorities, your values, your understanding of reality are somewhere else. Your understanding of reality goes no further than political prestige. There has never been such a mandate as this mandate, in which we are now and which, for the coalition and thus for the lefties, ends so infamously. It has never been so categorically rejected, but quite all the opposition's proposals, and however well-intentioned it has given them, however well-intentioned they have ever been. There's never been such a prestigious fight. Even more, when we had power, from 2004 to 2008, we offered our hand to the opposition. It was called development, because it's really about development. Development consists of many elements. One of them, as you can see in these days, is also an element of security. Firefighters are also a very important element. Firefighters are the first to jump to help, and firefighters often carry their health and life to sell. In the beginning, I said a tragic case that I personally know because it happened in the Churches of Gorenje a few years ago. The young fireman, the boy went to help, unfortunately the basement was flooded, he didn't know that someone hadn't turned off the main fuses yet, he wanted to help, drain the water, there was a short contact, and the boy died. Tragedy. Who's got the consequences? But also the specific consequences for health that appear, especially the most hypocritical ones, you know, that appear over time — who wears them? The one who wants to help, and that's not right. Therefore, these collaterals need to be regulated systematically, and this should be regulated by the State. Do you know when this turned out to be very nice in a unfortunately no-good way, but did it look good? Now, recently, ladies and gentlemen, there was a fire in Kemis, right there on the Vrchniki. The public secret is that some of the firefighters who came to the rescue also have consequences for volunteer firefighters, because at first they didn’t know what kind of fire they were, what kind of chemicals they were there — by the way, it turned out to be not well recorded, which is another problem — but the firefighters were selflessly jumped to help. This has resulted in the inhalation of extremely harmful, long-term harmful substances. Some have already been — and do not say that it is not true — on Golnik in very difficult investigations because there is a reasonable suspicion that they will have lasting consequences. Some are still expected to do so. And this is certainly not the only case in Slovenia, and it is certainly not the only case we will face. However, this is a fundamental argument that these things need to be regulated in an appropriate manner at the state level and not only municipal. Things used to be different. It used to be, you know, another system, different property, no job problems for firefighters, it was considered a plus, today it's a problem that needs to be solved. We used to live in an orderly country. Today, apparently, I don't know, they share very well with those citizens in the first and second order. And if you're in the first order, you don't have to have paperwork in your company, you don't have to have regulated data on which chemicals are involved, and if there's a disaster, there's a fire, then there's consequences – who? Voluntary firefighters. Sorry, that's unacceptable. So these things need to be arranged differently now, because things have changed, and that's what you can see, these cases confirm. It is unacceptable that the consequences will then be left to the one who wanted to help. Here you will have to find these perhaps other, additional, perhaps more complex compensation mechanisms if such things ever occur. Of course, there will be much more to be done about all the controls, inspections and all that should never happen again. In a regulated country, such a thing could not have happened if firefighters were to relay and not even get a list of chemicals that are located in a building where extinguishing is absolutely necessary because the flame is already thundering up to the sky. This is totally unacceptable. This is where the jobs were canceled, and this is also a proven responsibility of the state. When it comes to insurance, why am I saying that this needs to be settled now at national level? There are cases in the case of firefighters when individual insurance companies — and these are new cases again — are not old to not know how long — have refused to pay the firefighters. You are probably aware of this, which is, of course, just additional evidence that this needs to be arranged so that such things will no longer occur, that they could not possibly occur at all. He can't come. If someone is obviously having irrefutable consequences, because he unselfishly wanted to help others in the context of a mission to which he, on the basis of his voluntary decision, was sent by the community — he cannot bear the consequences because one insurance company is joking. But it is likely that when contracts are concluded, when all of this is regulated, it is necessary to have adequate background and adequate knowledge and appropriate legal assistance so that such acts cannot and must not occur. This is also one way in which concrete actions can help those who themselves help others, namely firefighters. It's firefighters, ladies and gentlemen, not political prestige, not anything else. Here before us is a set of solutions that represent themselves for the country under its billion-dollar budget, in the context of the thing about how money is being thrown through the window with a shovel in this country, 300 million a year is supposed to be for so-called NGOs, who, by their original definition, should not have gotten anything out of the budget if they went to that original definition of Sam personally to go back completely there. [[…]] 300 million like this. [[shows with gesture]] Through the window! So that some guy does something with a dog and stuff. And the people of God, is it justified to give money to the state? It's my responsibility to say no! Let me quote that famous saying: “Not every big piggy is also a crime,” but it is extremely contrary to all the values that are in this society, with all the values that, for example, are followed by Slovenian firefighting. These values must be taken into account when we decide in politics who the money is for and to whom it is not for. Politics is always a weighting of values, by definition. Our proposal is only that, in that symbolic, small part, if we are honest, but very important, because it is a concrete act, a concrete recognition of firefighting, we would devote certain funds to his noble mission for firefighters. We don't know how to do it, we don't have access to data, but how do we do it? [[…]] We can tell you what extent this is. If the government were worth anything, I would have calculated it myself, but the government has already resigned, nothing is worth it. In particular, it is 42 thousand operative firefighters, not for 160,000 firefighters in the broadest sense, but for 42 thousand operational firefighters. Of course, it would be considered to be a stimulus, which would later be defined as a form of tax stimulation in their employment, for those specifically summoned, the same would, of course, apply to all, operational again, 42 000, for payment for health checks and everything else provided for under this law. For those specifically, for that number and for those days when they would actually be called upon to carry out their operational duties, certain funds should also be allocated at the time for their supplementary insurance, for the disability, pension and all the rest provided for here for the laws. It's actually relatively small assets, and it's hard to calculate because it can be more of a year, but it's getting a little bit bigger, but in no case is it an alarming number, it's a few 10,000 euros, and it's nothing more. Nothing more, and that's why we're having this circus. Why? Because he does not really want to help himself because he has other purposes because others are given priority. It is of great interest to me that today the most aggressive against the solutions that are so obvious for the benefit of voluntary firefighters are precisely those who are in favour of opening borders to remove the wire from the southern border. You know, today was just one terrorist act, if anyone didn't know. Just today, two people are dead again, according to previous data, in Paris, more are still involved in this moment, and this is probably not the only case, but unfortunately it is not the last case. I'm just waiting for one of the smart politicians to come and he's gonna teach me that we have to get used to terrorism. No, we'll get used to living without such politicians. Reliable. But surely, at least I will never personally agree to live with terrorism. But even when something like this happens, ladies and gentlemen, firefighters will be called back, not only the first to defend physically in such a case, say the police when it comes to extreme events, including the military, but also firefighters, when it comes to removing the consequences of explosions, when it comes to limiting fires, when it comes to direct assistance, when it comes to everything else that firefighters do, let's say to rescue from damaged cars, everything else that can happen in such cases. Who's gonna be called back? Firefighters again. That's what you say. That's what needs to be taken into account. And what's very interesting is this contrast that I'm talking about right now. Precisely those with the fullest mouth to open borders – by the way, Mrs Tanja Fajon from the SD tweeted a few days ago that we need tens of thousands of new migrants every year, something like that – now oppose that voluntary firefighters receive these minimum funds from the state budget. I mean, it says a lot. You know, when it comes to the question of whether you want health, when it comes to the issue of life protection, there are a few ten thousand euros when it comes to the import of illegal migrants, but it's about the invitation to an apartment – what did we say? – LED TV, leather seats, glass ceramic plate, I don't know what else. I'm sorry, I don't agree, but I won't agree, and I'll never agree. I don't think anyone in this country with normal sanity would agree. There's been a lot of changes today. It has changed that unfortunately things are moving in such a way that fundamental values are lost, for which much of the blame is left-wing dyed education and left-wing in the media, and on the other hand, security things get tightened and they will, believe it. Much more than anyone thinks right now, just write down what I just said. Because things are changing in our immediate surroundings. Italy predicts the death of 600,000 migrants within a few months of the formation of a new government, the right government. Austria predicts an extermination of 50,000 and so on and so forth. Germany is talking about re-immigration, and some other countries are talking more and more about re-immigration. They say they'll send those who came where they came from. Then the problem, not just the security problem, will also be the direct protection of people's lives and assets. But don't think that this is something that – I've heard so often in this term – “fear”. That's what happened, ladies and gentlemen, when they went the other way! Who defended a lot of people when they were trampling through their backyards? Who put out a burning camp there on our southern border with Croatia when the migrants burned it themselves? Who were the migrants throwing bottles at with the stones? Firefighters, because firefighters also intervened there, were also there, and they were doing the same thing. That's what you're saying. First, you're aware of the consequences of your actions, then you're talking. And when you speak not only as Cerar pretended, he thanked the firefighters, the volunteer firefighters, and then he never proposed an appropriate law. [[…]] Now we propose it another time. Don't say it's now because I don't know what's coming, but because you didn't accept it at first, so now we're talking about it again. And if you don't accept it yet, then it's perfectly clear that it's impossible to accept it until the election, because the government has fallen. The government has admitted that it is incapable of what we have been saying for three years. There should never be such a government. No leftist government should be, it would be in Slovenia's life's interest, but unfortunately it also happened again and now it's gone. But since she's gone, that means the government is obviously not going to fix these things anymore. We wanted to arrange them, and you have the opportunity today, you have the opportunity to prove by your actions that you respect them because they deserve this respect, firefighters, because they perform a noble act because they themselves carry their health, their time, their lives for sale to help others. Your thing, from politicians, is to help create a situation that will benefit them as much as possible, with this small but still important symbolic action that doesn't cost much of this budget, especially when you compare it in a global way, but when you compare it with all that that coalition threw with this big shovel of money through a window over the past years. Should we now talk about a model for EUR 133 000, say? When you put this in the light against what firefighters are doing, it's actually symbolic, it's about acknowledging what firefighters deserve – sincerely thank you, but not in words, ladies and gentlemen, with actions. It only counts the pressure on the button for. In SDS and personally, believe me, we'll all be in. For firefighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since I consider myself left-handed, of course I don't allow anyone to say that my values are born. We can, because we are a constitutional parliamentary democracy, say they are unconstitutional, and prove it to me in an argument. I, too, do not say for Mr Grims that their values are born for a radical Slovenian right. And I'm not going to continue the sentence, but maybe I could, but I'll bite my tongue. First time. Secondly, I'm not going to let anyone on the Left, especially my younger limbs, seem to be able to do anything. You know, all these young friends of mine weren't born with a golden spoon, but they worked their way through life, they had kids, they were unemployed. As far as I can remember, he spends his whole life in politics along with Pahor Janš. Well, something about the time of the ZSMS with Bavčar and Kirn was doing the first privatisation, Mikro Ada, there they learned to wave with a stranger on the nets. The left of her children is not employed in Energy, Mr Tanko, in the state like you and Janša. I didn't hire my children either, but I already have some that I could do in this Parliament or in the European Parliament, and I don't mind all our children, kids don't choose their parents, especially politicians. I know a few kids of politicians who don't even want to hear about politics. But with all the quality young people who are very good at managing EU affairs, there is a son from high school who is called to help Janez Janša by EPP. I mean, bite your own tongue, and if you need a broom, I'll go buy it for you. [[…]] I expect an apology from the Magi. Grimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Of course, this was not procedural. [[advertising from the hall]] No, then it's a controversy, a debate. Here you go, Mr Grimes. What have you got? Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u94	I will help Mr Trček because he asks for a reminder, and I will specifically suggest that you give him a warning, because what he has done has exceeded all limits. For the first time, he had offended, as he had already done in the opening part, and just as he is now injuring a few meetings in a row. And secondly, what he did was a pure abuse of procedure. I didn't talk about any employment, I don't know who or left-wing people, I was talking about firefighters, I was talking about helping them with their jobs, because they have private businesses, because things have changed, problems, and you all know that. Such cases are also concrete, are known, and there is something that needs to be done here. And he was talking about completely different things that had nothing to do with this meeting, and of course it was a pure abuse of procedure. But he says a lot about him.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u95	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] This is of course a controversy now, and I will not give you a procedural one. We have a few more minutes to discuss, and you can tell us everything, Dr. Duck. We're done with this part. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Then we also have to give Dr. Duck a procedural first if we're going to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I have big ears, I listen very well. Mr Grims, probably because he had to spend all the time, he talked about Hayek, he talked about Luke the Moon, he was talking about the left, he was talking about the twisted values of the left, he was talking about, "do something too," and of course he was talking about everything living on the subject that was the content of this. I mean, a little self-censorship, but even if it wasn't for self-censorship, a little self-reflection would be necessary. I still expect Mr Grimes to apologize to me for his words on my values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u97	Thank you very much. That wasn't procedural either. Mr. Tanko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Hainz, I'd like to ask that if he's a doctor, teach him what a procedural proposal is and how it's designed in the first place. The fact that someone mentions anything in the debate is part of the debate. Perhaps you too, Mr. Hainz. As regards the replica, the answer to a misstatement or misunderstanding is, but the procedural proposal must refer to something. And in my opinion, you should act and give Mr Trcek an appropriate reminder, because what he was saying is not a replica, not a debate, and there is no procedural proposal at all. I suggest, Mr Hainz, that you conduct the session of the National Assembly in a consistent manner. If anyone is interested in some things, where someone works, we can also open up a debate in the National Assembly, and we can put them at an extraordinary meeting if anyone wants to. We've had at least 2 or 3 discussions on this, and there are those who should say something, paintblind, that's what they say, they see something, one little thing, but they don't see the whole forest. According to this logic, when someone explains who can get a job somewhere, all left-wing workers or your close relatives in the public sector, all the way to the last. If that's the case, none of the officials should be employed. So I suggest you warn gentlemen not to fool around, but not at all, because he behaves with the academic title of the highest rank. In my view, you, as President, should have acted long ago and given an appropriate warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u99	Mr Tanko, since I said it wasn't procedural, it's not right that he did it, it's all true, but you know, the punishment has to be brought up. But what I am about to do at the end of my term, the last week, before closing trade, I am going to give a punishment or a reminder -- I think it's completely out of the question. [[advertising from the hall]] Dr. Duck, I won't give it to you. Thank you very much. I think we've closed the case because the matter is unprincipled for both sides. You've got your word. We still have time, and I'm asking you to sign in. I know there's still a desire to discuss it. If you also want a representative of the proposer and a representative of the government, please also apply. Everyone has 2 minutes 20. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Like I said, 'cause you can talk about everything. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I start the debate or not? Why does it bother me? [[advertising from the hall]] Most of the bad things I learned in this national assembly, I learned from Mr Tank, who has been here 18 years and has cost us more than 1 million euros. “Responsible”, said Mr Tanko. Mr. Lisec said, "It's creaking." Indeed, many government laws have been crumbling, but from someone who has been here 18 years, and from Lisco, who has been here since 2005, first as an expert and so on, and from the party who has cost us, let us talk about the costs, Mr Grims, already some 10 million euros since 1991, I would expect him to propose a law that has not broken! And that was from Left's point of view. This legislative proposal of yours has shrunk and, as such, we cannot accept this mandate. Why? Because we will not be able to deal with second and third readings at the same meeting, because there will be too many amendments, which Mr Tanko knows very well, but, of course, as an experienced policy, makes a fool of himself. I even listened to your session about the situation in the Slovenian Army, even your session about — what? – the future of Slovenia, where the biggest problem is Dražljica's pussy and where Janša will say that he will give reconciliation, I listened even now here and would expect some basic respect from people who sit in the National Assembly for so long. After all, I'm not the only one with an academic education. You have a doctor there who runs your client, Grims has a master's degree, Logar has a doctorate, Vinko has a doctorate, but, Tanko, you're just pounding when something is not what you want, while you're pounding on the fourth industrial revolution, but you're the biggest anti-intellectual, not just in Slovenia. Let's take a look in the mirror once. And if the firefighters were watching this, they'd be voting for Desus, maybe for Levi, maybe for the NSI, if Ludmila was running it, but if they were smart, they'd set up their own client. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am of the opinion that this debate has received some other dynamics, so I will not be taking part in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u104	Thank you. I really hope that the Members who will be elected to the next term will have to carry out some psychological tests, and I think that a lot of today's speakers will then not be in Parliament. I believe, however, that mainly with the client Levica due to the announcement of Mr Vebra, and some other party covering this radical left space, the great panic, even in the polls, is detected at 4 or 5%, and, of course, panic is visible and such a reaction, discussions that would be more relevant to any institution in Ljubljana Polje. We also have suitable institutions in Gorenjska for such Members in the country, and they may be able to deal with them there next. I will support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The four articles are articles which can also be amended in other readings, and if it is of interest to adopt this law, then 23 signatures may also be collected for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the Committee shall be given a second reading in a second and third reading in a plenary session, and the law shall be adopted. If you are disturbed by the public service, we can turn it into an operational part and so on. In short, all that you have cited as arguments for which you will not support the law, because it should not be too clear, too specific, because it should not have been financial consequences See, earlier in the debate, Mrs Slug said, I spoke with the firefighters – even in the parliamentary group we had a meeting two years ago not only with the Fireman Association of Slovenia, where we discussed in particular how to determine the criteria for who would be justified, and we thought this solution that we proposed was acceptable to all, that is to say, those who are actively involved also get these credits, as we proposed by law. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The one about the field and the fugitives was, of course, a little overkill. Mr. Jože Tanko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. We do have a few people who have an academic name before their name and surname, but no one's written "The Duck." Secondly, it should also be said to the gentleman that this euphoria, which sometimes employs THC fighters, is already a little symptomatic and these waves are repeated, so that sometimes a test should also be introduced in the National Assembly. With regard to the debate by the Secretary of State of Bisak, when he informed us that the law had no financial implications, the law for consideration in the National Assembly fully fulfils all the conditions, including the financial criteria written in it. If they weren't, the law wouldn't be at the National Assembly hearing. That's the first one. If you did not know how to define the financial consequences, you could frame them with your amendments into more precise definitions, you have every opportunity, if you are a working man and if you act positively, but obviously today is more intended to deal with the proposalr, with the SDS, because you have enacted the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which you failed to settle in a timely and appropriate manner through the legislative process. I'm assessing this as some kind of revenge on your department. I would like to tell you that you are the one who criticizes, what a flawed law we have proposed – first look at your products and your work. It's not your job to brag about it. No, as far as sectoral legislation is concerned, not as regards the development of the structure you are covering. If you look at the indexes of the beginning and the end of the term, they're catastrophic. Like your primary case, the Slovenian Army. I do not want this to happen again in the fire department or in the security and rescue system. It is therefore necessary to support this and to move forward at least in this area where you have this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I have to tell you, the game around last names is not a proper game. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u108	Hello, Mr. Vice President. All I have to say is that I'm really sad to hear that people here are unnecessarily raising their voices. One such debate recently had nothing to do with content. I thought that was beneath every level, but I'm not talking about names and surnames. My wish and the desire of the Slovenian Democratic Party was to propose a law that would bring all the parliamentary groups together in the National Assembly. We all claim together here, and I am convinced that rarely is anyone here among us who would not believe that firefighters and firefighters are even more necessary and important in our society, an integral part of our society and that everything needs to be done to help them make their work easier and better. That is why we have introduced this law, but unfortunately I must find out after hearing some views of the parliamentary groups, especially the SD, which is the holder of this ministry, that they have said in their position that they will not support this law. It's embarrassing, it's unacceptable and irresponsible. Why? Mr Bizjak told me that I am deceiving the public when I said about the law that I have received and showed that 80% of this law is unacceptable to the majority of the stakeholders who make up this part and to whom this law applies. I ask once again Mr Biszak whether it is agreed with all stakeholders. And if so, I ask Mr Biszak why this law is not in the parliamentary procedure. The explanation I had heard before is far from true. Mr Bizjak, here and today, tell the Slovenian public when this law, in accordance with all stakeholders, will be submitted to the National Assembly. And if that is not the case, please apologize to me and tell me that it is not consistent with all stakeholders 100 percent. You said 100%. You said don't nod your head now and don't take the word back. You wanted to insult me, and on the other hand, I find that you lied, and that's unfair and unfair.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Milos Bizjak, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll answer the last question first. The law is harmonised, it's coordinated in most ways. I didn't use the word 100%. If I used it, I apologize and it's wrong. However, you need to know that it is in line with the Fireworks of Slovenia as the highest organisation, you must also know that we have two professional associations, which are sometimes contradictory in many ways, and it will be difficult for any government or any group to reconcile fully with all. Therefore, it will also be necessary to define here in Parliament which comments will be taken into account by professional associations. And of course, if it is now the intention to look for those professional associations that are not satisfied, it can be obtained. However, I claim to be the highest firefighter's institution, which is the Fireman's Association of Slovenia, actively participated in and coordinated the law. However, I cannot say that it is 100 % coordinated, precisely because the friction between the two professional firefighter associations is a minor part of the firefighter's organisation. That's what you have to say. However, since I had not had enough time before, and since Mr Mahnic is here too, I must say that, in addition to the above-mentioned measures that were taken in Sezhana, we have implemented everything. Once again, if we haven't realized one, tell me which one we haven't realized. Before that, I also forgot to mention that, along with the Slovenian railways, we had done a belt trim along the track, which was agreed at the time, and thus contributed to fire safety. With regard to defence legislation, which is not today's topic, but Mr Tanko said, I must say that you also have a stake in the fact that this defence legislation is stuck where it is. In the history of Parliament, it is likely that you have not yet given so much time to deal with these two laws in public and have made an analysis. It could've all been sooner. Last but not least, Mr Member, you have also promised that there will be a vote in this House, and I believe you have a serious purpose, but the last parliamentary session we have planned will not be.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. I must say that one would laugh at the fact that the opposition is now guilty because the government has resigned because of its own mistakes. That's a very interesting logic. But to return the subject to what we are considering today, I would like to remind you that we have proposed a law that had only four fundamental elements. The first is to stimulate the employment of firefighters by reducing the employer's insurance premiums and by providing the employer with tax relief for the employment of a volunteer firefighter. In addition, we have proposed that the State take responsibility and provide those minimum funds – these are extremely small funds – for the insurance of operational firefighters and for the preventive health checks of operational firefighters. In addition, we have proposed that the State provide voluntary firefighters with funding for additional health insurance for each day of the fire service, as well as additional pension insurance. This was the content of this proposal. All together, within the framework of the state budget, has extremely small financial implications, and this would be important as a gesture of gratitude for the encouragement and assistance of all those who unselfishly help others, is said to be voluntary firefighters. When we first proposed these solutions within the framework of the law to remedy the consequences of capture, you all said then that you support such solutions, that these are safe solutions in the right direction, only that you cannot support them because they are not proposed under the right law. Now they're proposed in the real law, in the Fires Act, and now you've been looking for a thousand and one reasons not to accept it. I will always defend that it is Slovenia first. If mountains of money for foreigners, for migrants, are easily spent, but there are no minimal, uncomparably smaller funds for voluntary firefighters, this is indeed a matter of value. And if anyone recognized himself in this case [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u113	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Is there much time left? [[advertising from the hall]] End of time-sharing, yeah. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 27, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 3. 2018, in the framework of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 20th item of the agenda. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on the operation of joint platforms of the cooperative economy. The draft law was tabled by a group of 8 Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Vojko Shergan. With regard to this bill, the Group of 10 Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Vojko Shergan, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mrs Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would present a law on the functioning of online platforms for the collaborative economy. I believe that online platforms are in fact also the future of the economy. The online platforms of the collaborative economy are used mainly by individuals who, by offering their goods or services, contribute additionally to their family budget and improve their social situation, and this undoubtedly has an impact on increasing consumption and economic standards. Business through platforms is also an exceptional opportunity for individuals to test their entrepreneurial ideas and thus strengthen their confidence before entering the world of entrepreneurship. The law allows optimisation of existing resources through the integration of providers and users, since they are mostly underutilised through platforms. Thus, without extensive investment, new services and products are being developed, thus helping to preserve the environment. We propose that the scope of business through the collaborative economy platforms be limited to EUR 2 000 400 per year, ensuring that they are not threatened by active business operators. We also estimate that this does not significantly affect the labour market, which means that an individual tenderer can receive as much revenue on all registered platforms as provided for in the law, and the platforms are registered through the APIS as provided for in Article 7 of the proposed law. The news brought by the law is time banks. For a time bank model, it is typical that time is used as a changeover, hours of work are equivalent hours of work regardless of what kind of work it is. This enables those who are in trouble with money to cooperate. They can offer their skills, skills, and acquire the skills they need for the exchange. The Time Bank encourages intergenerational cooperation, already having positive experience abroad, and some attempts have already been made in Slovenia. It is useful as a solution for long-term care, especially in Japan, for example, a very good example of good practice. Experience from abroad has shown surprisingly good results in improving the feeling of the users of the time bank. We would like to point out that the proposal does not affect the field of transport and short-term housing by placing providers through the collaborative economy platforms in a privileged position in relation to other forms of activity which the legislation otherwise regulates. Article 4 of the proposed law states that the provisions of the laws laying down the conditions for carrying out certain activities in the Republic of Slovenia shall also be used to carry out the activities of the cooperative economy until the revenue of the provider of EUR 2 000 400 per calendar year. In the case of a cooperative economy, it is necessary to seek ways to tax the tenderer simply, since it is only so possible to expect that the tenderers will be genuinely interested in such a form of activity. In the proposed law, we advocate the same form of taxation as the so-called standardised ones. This means that providers will be taxed at 4 % of the payments received through the collaborative economy platforms, with the tax being definitive. In preparing the law on the functioning of the online platforms of the collaborative economy, we had in mind a very wide range of users. We wanted to give them an opportunity to earn extra money, to participate actively in society and to test entrepreneurial ideas. The latter therefore do not need to register elsewhere than on the platform of the cooperative economy. Not too high and definitive taxation allows tenderers on collaborative platforms to pay the tax only from generated revenues. In doing so, they do not have to worry about the impact that these revenues will have on tax accounts at the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u115	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, chairman. Before I start with my position, I can say - don't mind me - that my expert came to me and asked myself a little bit what the lady is saying, which represents this, because I have to say that we are very much into this, but we will be in the debate. It's an attitude. The proposal for this Roco-Species Act is garlic on the cake of the mandate of Minister Počvalska and generally the so-called economic efforts of SMC. We can summarize them with a password: deregulation, deregulation, deregulation. At the same time, the proposal of the law is a perfect stunt. Such a poorly prepared marriage in the National Assembly should not be considered at all. In Levica, we believe that the law itself is not suitable for further consideration, so of course we will vote against it. Why? The cooperative economy, or in a more well-established translation, has been highlighted as a practice of reducing labour costs and transferring the risk from capital to work, enabled by the development of information technologies, in particular the web and analysis of mass data, so-called big data. Platforms are a way of monopolizing these data and using them for private commercial purposes, mostly. Digital platforms are intended only to mediate between users and service providers, and in fact they organise these platform services as a work process. They are essentially a capitalist enterprise, but they simply pretend that they are not, that they do not have to respect labour laws, avoid taxation and other regulations. Let's separate two key types of platforms. Capital platforms such as Airbnb, and labour platforms, Uber, Deliveroo, TaskRabbit and so on. Workers of the labour platforms are supposed to be independent entrepreneurs who have their own working time, and in fact they have to submit to weekly schedules, wait for specific locations, follow instructions and so on. The monopoly on key information on working time regulation has exclusively a platform with developed methods of extreme and external control, such as user evaluation, monitoring through location tracking and the like. The penalty is usually exclusion from platforms, while platforms pass on both business risk and fixed capital costs to workers. In short, the platforms are the most sophisticated form of complete work prophylacticism. For example, this is confirmed by a statement by the platform manager CrowdFlower, quote: "Before the Internet was invented it was really impossible to find someone, hire them for 10 minutes and fire them again after 10 minutes. With technology you can find the workers, pay them a few little and get rid of them as soon as you don’t need them.” End of quote. I'm going to look at an example of the most infamous platform Uber or Iber, as one of them calls it. Uber was trying to bring SDS and Minister Koprivnikar to Slovenia, who will go to history as one of the worst ministers. Uber devotes a great deal of money to promoting deregulation of transport services, thereby seeking to obtain more drivers, deregulation of costs and charging of routes and changing licensing practices. He also systematically uses methods for court play and inspection. Such practices destroy public transport systems and are therefore prohibited in many places. Drivers who drive for it do not choose to do so because it is a pleasant and well - paid job, for the data shows that very few Uber drivers take it as a full - time job. In this form of employment does not last very long, after some serious study more than half of Uber's drivers drive less than half a year. The reasons for this are difficult working conditions and low earnings, which barely cover the costs of petrol and car depreciation – and in some London they are already running out of insurance. In most cases, it is a matter of part-time work in which people are forced or unemployed or who are looking for the opportunity to earn money from one opportunity to another, or even regular employees, who do not earn enough to live a normal life and have to work for a normal standard. What follows from all this? In order to regulate the divisional economy, which should be regulated in sectoral legislation, not separately, as you suggest here, particular emphasis should be placed on 3 issues in particular. The first is taxation. Taxation of the dividing economy should at least be comparable to taxation of other similar activities. Smart taxation not only means raising money, but also the impact on the spread of activities and the reduction of its harmful effects. The other is labour rights. In particular, we should stress the protection of labour rights. If these were not taken into account, as provided for in the legislation relevant to this area, then the platform should not be operational, you also have certain countries where even the prohibitions are prohibited, as correctly stated in the interpretation of the law. And third time, regulation. As new economic models differing from traditional ones, additional regulation is needed to ensure compliance with consumer standards and quality, environmental and spatial development and fair business. None of this is in this bill. They're just bad and unserious on a bunch of imposed solutions. For this reason, the Left will not support this, but will no longer support it in the debate. But you've made some adjustments. You've even claimed from the beginning that you were the first to bring the time bank to Slovenia. This was done by Dr. Slavko Gaber and a team of students from almost all the refugee colleges were already working on it nine, ten years ago. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u117	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Members of the SMC have introduced into the parliamentary procedure the Act on the functioning of the online platforms of the collaborative economy, which, with the direct integration of providers and users, gives individuals the opportunity for additional earnings, active participation in society and the test of entrepreneurial ideas before entering the world of entrepreneurship, while at the same time increasing competitiveness and impact on economic growth. The scope of business through the collaborative economy platforms would be limited to EUR 2 000 400 per year following the proposal, which means that the provider can receive the maximum revenue on all registered platforms as laid down in the law. Platforms would be registered through Ipes, as provided for in Article 7 of the proposed law. This means that individuals do not need to register elsewhere than on the platform of the cooperative economy. It is said that there is no need to set up businesses and pay for other services if we are to offer our product or service via an online platform, with a limit of EUR 2 000 400 per year. In other words, a natural person will be able to perform as a provider of the product and service without the obligation of any administrative obstacles brought about by the registration. In some cases, when it comes to actually low incomes, such an obligation makes no sense. The novelty introduced by the law is also the introduction of a time bank that shows surprisingly good results abroad. The Time Bank uses time as a means of exchange, which means, for example, that one hour of work is equivalent to one hour of work regardless of what kind of work it is. Thus, those in need of money can offer their skills and skills and learn the skills they need in exchange. The Time Bank promotes intergenerational cooperation and is thus a useful solution for long-term care. Offerers interested in this form of activity, we propose simple taxation in the law or we advocate the same taxation as the so-called standardised ones. This means that providers will be taxed at 4 % of the payments received through the collaborative economy platforms, with the tax being definitive. Therefore, the bidders will pay only the tax on generated revenues, without having to worry about the impact of these revenues on the tax returns at the end of the year. Business stories often start in a home garage, some become big business stories, and some of these stories may be successful because of the opportunities that individuals will get to work in an economic sector that is already on behalf of a cooperative. In our parliamentary group, we want a constructive and good debate on this law and, of course, we are very open to cooperative proposals, possible changes and all that some law needs, so that it can be good and that we can adopt it, of course, within the framework of the idea and objectives of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u119	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Oh, that's a good-bye again. In fact, online platforms are already working very successfully and actively on the Slovenian market. Very different activities are present and are most popular in the area of trade, where providers of local organic products are highly skilled in promoting a healthy lifestyle while at the same time developing awareness of the importance of self-sustainment. The needs for the constant rapid movement of day-to-day migrants were dictated by the use of an online platform offering transport at favourable prices, while at the same time addressing the lack of parking spaces and ensuring that environmental pollution is reduced. We also know the online platform for the exchange of information on businesses in the European Union in the field of justice and economy when it comes to public access to business registers. These are so-called online markets where supply and demand are exchanged, and they operate in almost all areas such as ecology, agriculture, the circular economy, the business environment and could also be listed. In short, online platforms are a rapidly growing trend and opportunities for progress are great. In the Desus Group, we prefer the creation of new jobs, the needs of the market are those which dictate greater or smaller activity of these people, so we do not need any roofing law that further regulates this area. Even in the introduction of the bill, we lack more precise reasons why we need a new law on the fact that things are already working in practice and are regulated by the law in the field. That is why it is not clear to us when the proposer mentions that the aim of the bill is to prevent the abuse of the collaborative economy by avoiding legislation. In the Desus Group, we feel that there is only one law that we cannot regulate precisely enough matters that could apply to all activities. The specificity of an individual case requires regulation in a sectoral law which must take care of all implementation conditions and, above all, for supervision. For example, the Uber project is a very special story that definitely needs its law and does not generalise rules or equations with others, so we cannot cover it under one law, because because of its specificity, and in particular the different opinions of the profession and public fear, it is a completely different picture of the creation of a commercial aspect of the collaborative economy. In its 2017 European Economic Cooperation Agenda report, the European Commission sets out the need to identify the characteristics and responsibilities of key players in the collaborative economy, in particular with regard to the clear separation between equal partners and professional providers, the nature, duties and responsibilities of cooperation platforms and the high level of consumer protection. In the Desus Group, we believe that similar challenges are not regulated by the law to the extent that we have our support for the next legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u121	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word is from Dr. Franz Trček, to prepare Mrs Anita Kolesh, and then to the conclusion of the general debate. [[advertising from the hall]] As a proponent then. After him or in front of him? [[advertising from the hall]] Follow him, all right. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I'm really sad that I almost have no one to talk to right now. Well, it's kind of logical that the party that proposes also has a position, in these inter-coalitional conflicts, another party from two of the coalition that sees this tension, then I and others are not here, but the so-called Slovenian right all day long is the industrial revolution 4.0. Well, maybe Mr. Breznik is abroad and I could talk to him. Now, I don't want to be insulting to be able to talk seriously, I should give the microphone to the SMC expert sitting back there covering this topic, and who somehow mastered this topic, I wrote about these topics, from this area. If Tanko were here, he'd be beating his anti-intellectualism again. But it is basically a very important and very ideological topic. How much is it now? Three weeks ago, basically on Friday, Saturday, Sunday in Paris at Mercator Dialogue we spent most of our time talking about, digital economy, what does that mean now, how to regulate it, how to tax it. As SMC put it, you know, this kind of means that in this society and country in 25 years we have come to where we have come, including these mafia-kleptocratic-corruption ties within Tesh, within banks, some of the investigators are ending, some of them are not, because we do not have any appropriate policy for under 40 years, because the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is not the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology – You know what one of the few economists in Slovenia who thinks about development, Franček Drenovac? Politics must create conditions for a different and different economy. – now SMC's here with some candy. Since it's not, you're gonna do something small. This reminds me of when this young Bush goes to Alaska and there meets one lady, you can find on YouTube, and she says, "Oh, I work here and here," at three ends. And son Bush says, "Wow, look, great, this is the realization of the American dream." I'll just say it in human language. The kid's a dream come true. The lady has to make three rounds to tie up the spaghetti. If this start-up ideology is distorted a little bit: one out of ten startups survives five years. It is indeed successful – there are different assessments, different analyses – there is one in 20 to 30 thousand. If the ideology that the Modern Center wants to sell in Slovenia is, by fax, you'll be entrepreneurs by the age of 40 or 15 and you'll be failing in the middle of antidepressants and at the age of 50 you'll be committing suicide, of course that's something that Levic doesn't support. It was also not clear from this debate – I was talking to my colleague Vojko – what is now, whether 2 jury 400 is the limit or not, or whether over 2 thousand 400 can be taxed more or less. Here we run into something that I would call hyperregulation of everyday life. Dr. Milan Brglez and I were reading Marcel Mauss, a well-known essay on the gift, which is one of the basics of cultural anthropology. Look, we don't need everything and we can't regulate everything. The expert and I have been talking, yes, the inspector can come, and you, I don't know, grow more rhubarbs, and we make three strudels, and we can't eat everything and the lady, and you give me, I don't know, salad. [[…]] These are the alternative economies that will exist. You know, we have to start dealing with something else. [[…]] When they ask me about the economy, I usually say: “Domel, Krka, Kolektor”. Home by ownership structure, because they are former employees, current employees, Krka by mode of recruitment, which is almost 50 years old, it seems that now will be an invitation to tender for 49. The Krka prizes, and the Collector by the way the portfolio is dispersed. Of course, I'd like more necks and collectors, but the labor force is limited, we don't finance science. But here we should do whatever the neighbors, whose current government is not very fond of me, in Austria, do, and that is growing. Threatening certain areas, sectors of the economy that are key. They've been doing this for 20 years, and that's the way, if you want the right to be here, you'll bring in dual apprenticeship, as they say, because the apprentice then has a thousand 200, thousand 300 Euros of apprenticeship, which is higher than our average. This is the approach advocated by Levica, of course with a much stronger economic democracy, with the serious development of society, including through the serious development of social entrepreneurship, which we somehow misunderstood. The SMC ideology is, of course, something else or, if you want, the ideology of Rest. This ministry has not dealt with what its name is, with economic development and technology, but has dealt with deregulation of a number of activities. Deregulation usually means a lot less labour rights, deprofessionalisation of an area, lower wages and ultimately lower inflows to all cash registers, including lower pensions at the end, if I say so very domestically. This, of course, is not the direction in which I or Levica would like to go to Slovenia, and even if we are reading the Constitution in substance, this is not the direction Slovenia should go. Quite similar to the position of Levice is the position of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. Of course, we must not close our eyes before this. Even some responsible old policy should have regulated this by now, because these are things that we sniffed about 20 or 25 years ago when I was still young and partly even beautiful – I know you find this hard to believe – when I started doing this, and at least 10 years ago I should have dealt with it. There are some delays here, a big problem, how we're going to tax something that avoids territorialisation. Instead of such hand-to-hand hocus attempts of like proposals, these few articles hardly call it law, of course this needs to be seriously reconsidered, it is necessary to go into some serious reform of the tax system, which must also include digitisation, which is already well-versed in our everyday lives, that we should also go into finalising legislation in the field of labour law. Now that I'm saying this, I just remembered from my long-term memory, in 1998, I went to Dublin for the first time. At the time they were looking for an expert on the video, the saint was still so smart, then I, this young man, was sent because I knew something about it, and then I met a teleworking union 20 years ago in Dublin. 20 years later, Slovenia must take this seriously and there are some companies that have gone much further in this direction, and this is an important area of the next mandate. I understand this kind of well-intentionedness of someone who doesn't know much about the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u123	Ms Vojka Shergan, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to explain here, because there was also a speech in the opinion that it was a multinational, that it was a classic trade, a classical craftsmanship, here I would like to stress that this is not the case. It's about having two natural persons, but there's a platform in between. This means that the provider is a natural person who logs into an online platform and finds a user there. There are two natural persons here, not two companies. Then we also have a limit of EUR 2 000 400, which is important, that it is really a small job and small service providers that are currently not actually in use at all. If I say just on one such case, someone has a ski at home, they will not use it this year and decide to offer it to the user via the platform, but to use these skis, let's say they pay for the use. It's not really a lot of money, but the provider just offers what he doesn't use and what he might get some money for, but they're not big. This could also be compared in some way, or, I will say, at the moment we have personal complementary work and values, I think that this online platform, where it will essentially be a collaborative economy between natural persons, a supply between natural persons, is an emphasis on this possibility of using this platform of two natural persons, the provider and the consumer, is that simply an additional provider deserves, we said up to EUR 2 000 400. [[…]] However, if you notice, as previously mentioned, that we have market regulation and so on with regard to the supply and demand of entrepreneurs, and if such an activity develops into over EUR 2 000 400, it is simply registered and started to be an entrepreneur. But it's about offering people on the ground the use of a platform to offer their surpluses or their skills to users. That's what this is about. And if I touch the time bank here, too. The time bank is that someone, I don't know, cuts the grass and someone needs an instruction for their child. Here's an hour for an hour. This logs onto the platform and via the user platform then uses this service. This is the proposal of this law. Of course, the standard costs, 4%, allow this to be simplified, and they do not affect the profits of this provider, which receives very little value in one year for this offer, is this EUR 2 000 400. And since it has standardized costs, it doesn't go to the salary it deserves, and it doesn't add up, but it pays this 4% tax and the case is closed. Also log in to Ipes this user and the provider, it simply goes through Ipes, because the platform also has to log in to Ipes. In short, Ipes will follow this and monitor or record it in one sense, and he will monitor Furs. This is said to be a record of these offers and requests. As a result, if he exceeds EUR 2 000 400, he will simply have to decide whether to apply for the activity or not to market his services in this way in that year. The cooperative economy is a business model where activities are made possible through a platform for cooperation. I'd like to stress that one more time. These then create an open market for the temporary use of goods or services often provided by individuals. Once again, individuals. The cooperative economy also includes 3 categories of service providers sharing resources, time, knowledge and skills. This is really about micro small offers, once again, natural persons. Then I would also like to highlight how we can take advantage of the story of the collaborative economy. This new form of the economy differs from what is now known, especially in the fact that individuals who, until yesterday, in fact, did not perceive their assets and knowledge in any way, then it appears as a potential to generate earnings with opportunities offered online. These are, in a way, new business opportunities that have not been possible so far. Anyone can then, of course, become economically active, make a basic or additional profit. In short, it is a collaborative economy, even in the European Union, this is much to be discussed. You also mentioned, my friend, but you mentioned the practical collaborative economy of multinationals, which is not identical to what is being resolved in this law, where it is actually looking at these micro-entities, natural persons who can participate and practically operate legally on the market. Legally, really, with a little bit of money. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry also expressed its concerns that the market must be controlled, that it must be regulated. Article 4 of the proposal provides that the rules laying down the conditions for the exercise of an activity shall be regulated, carried out activities in the Republic of Slovenia, and shall continue to be used to carry out activities in a cooperative economy. This is said to continue this control in the cooperative economy. This does not provide for exceptions or generally applicable rules for the conduct of an activity, which also protects competition between those engaged in activities as their gainful or professional activity and those engaged in activities under the cooperative economy. In particular, this protects the users of the services of the collaborative economy, since the service providers in the cooperative economy will also be committed to respect the general rules already in place. As a result, those operators operating on the market are not at risk and cannot be at risk because of these natural persons. Then there are the principles applicable in this cooperative economy. Above all, the equality of treatment of online platforms, domestic and foreign – I mentioned that they are registered on the Ipes – is the effective traceability of all transactions to comply with tax rules and the transparent establishment of online platforms, which would in some way allow this to happen. I am therefore sure that this law could be improved by debate, but today I have understood from my point of view that the views that have been presented and the understanding of this law have gone in a completely different direction than this law foresees. This was seen from both the left side and Desus's point of view. That is why I would indeed, I think, on the other hand, I am sorry that this debate is not in some way a little more productive and there are no more debaters, because I am convinced that if we look to the future, this kind of cooperation between people will be necessary and necessary. [[…]] In particular, because we also have a bad demographic picture and because in some ways this help of people between us could certainly come to life through online platforms and be controlled. These online platforms would make it possible. At all, as I said, in the care of the elderly, to help the elderly, that would certainly be. For example, an elderly person, even if his family takes care of him, sometimes needs rest, and at that time he gets someone to help him. The annual earnings of the one who jumps to help are no more than EUR 2 000 400. I tell you that at this point these things are already happening, I believe they are already happening, but they are happening either with the personal add-ons or otherwise, which I think would be better if it were somehow recorded. And there's something else. Older people have a different way of communicating. The elderly are somehow getting closer to each other, still talking more and more, while young people are online looking for solutions on the Internet. For these smaller solutions, like the Time Bank, as I said before, when the exchange of services is between us, I think that this online platform is also the solution to the exchange of these services. Like I said, someone can mow grass, and the other one, I don't know, can train an object. This could be for the future. Maybe this marriage is in one sense too much for someone else, I don't know, it can't think like that, it seems to him that it's some kind of utopia, but I'm telling you that if we talk on one side about the Internet actually directing everything in life and that young people are using it, I think it's the future, even for small services, for small people. Above all, we are talking about small services, small amounts. I said 2,000, 400 euros, and it's about natural persons. And no, no form of legal personality. When a natural person exceeds EUR 2 000 400, he must decide whether to register or not to offer these services in that year. Therefore, I do not think that this risk would be competition for companies that are registered. It is possible, however, that those who have already begun an offer and have noticed that they could also live off it can register and expand their activities under all the established rules. They register it and then they act that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u125	Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] No, then he'll be in time-sharing.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u126	I saw Mr. Duck raise his hand, and I thought he was right in front of me. Okay. Well, I'm actually going to give up much of the debate, because - who would you explain this to now? I guess not to myself. I expected that we would have a constructive discussion here about a significant share, at least that's how I understood the matter, a new "economic sector" of the divisional economy. Indeed, I don't know, 20 years or so ago, we also started to think, some movement in thinking has occurred, namely that it is possible to share things and services, and within this there has already been some cooperation through so-called time banks. Personally, this time bank is one very interesting thing to me, and I must say that I have seen this law in a considerable way from this point of view. I know things, and I know that Dr. Gaber's been doing it, and I know people who've pulled a lot of valuable stuff out of this time bank. That's what they say. All these advantages were. The matter has also died because of unregulated matters related to regulation and the like, questions have been raised about, I don't know, possible work in black and so on. Therefore, it seemed important to me that one part of this so-called cooperative economy should also be included in the legislative proposal. Of course, I find it a little unfortunate that we have also introduced taxation into this proposal, and I find this proposal somewhat unacceptable that some unit of work, which is valued with another unit of work, in the meantime time has passed. Here I think we've missed a little bit, and that's not the right way to do it. I think that there is potential in this cooperative economy, and that is why we should not throw it out like this with our left hand. Also, it is true, we are talking about some small services, small parts, values are extremely limited, and it is true that we already have, as we have heard from Desus' point of view, many of these platforms that offer different types of services that we can place in the so-called cooperative economy. Personally, I am very much or I am quite against Uber, for example, we know that our Slovenian space has a very successful transport platform.si. We know that there have already been very serious difficulties within this platform in terms of speculation or non-participating or non-cooperating economies, but purely market-based. And these things will probably have to be regulated somehow. I'm saying I'm not going to pay too much money because I don't think our proponent has explained the most important thing, but I think it's somehow understandable that we don't go to this big corporation or that we don't have in mind when we regulate these things, big corporations. I don't know, it's probably right that we're talking about this, that it's possible, that there are various speculations in this area, and that it's wrong not to mention the problems that might arise. It is also probably true that the law itself is flawed, we ourselves, after talking within the parliamentary group in some other reading, have found a lot of this, so I very much agree that there is still a lot to be done, but it seems to me that it would be right to start talking about it and to agree on it in some near future. I believe that Slovenia is an innovative society to prove this also by entrepreneurs, to deal with a lot of things, and I think that there may be some entrepreneurial opportunities within this, at least at the beginning of their business path, that they may then grow into some more successful and even business-rich stories. Okay, well, if the situation is now that things aren't going to go to the next reading, okay, but I certainly don't think we should stay at that. Whoever is doing this more and more – I also see that there is an increasing number of literature in this regard, I think that legal practice has also published a number of things in the past period, so that this literature also appears to a greater extent, and I think it will help us with the law. I think we're going to get to him once or to a similar marriage as we did, but we're going to get to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u127	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which Mrs Vojka Shergan, the representative of the proposalr, gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. In conclusion, I would like to point out that it seems kind of bad to notice how little obedience is when you advocate small things, small people, when you talk about a future that some do not realize is possible to cooperate in such a way in society as the society of the future. Although I come from a rural area where it seems to me that in the future, without the participation of some communities living in the neighbourhood, it will not be possible, in fact, because it will be difficult for the country to provide money for all people, for every service that someone will need, when they are no longer able to move forward and when they have age problems that they can somehow remain in domestic care and that they do not need to go to a nursing home. In this way this could certainly develop. I'm kind of true because I see that somehow there's not quite a proper understanding of this kind of cooperation. [[…]] However, I believe that this debate, if nothing else, will also encourage the next period to start thinking in this direction, that if people cooperate with each other through online platforms, we will also have a better quality of life, and that a collaborative economy in this society is the economy of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u129	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yeah. Will she then also discuss the proposaler? [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, then you have five minutes each. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. I'm listening to this and two things the first thing is that you've taken the wrong path. [[…]] We have the opportunity, according to the Rules of Procedure, to gather people here who really know something about this and to have a public opinion to somehow get acquainted with it. The other thing is a little bit of a joke and a lot of it for real, with this proposal and the way you put it, the SMC is being run over as a liberal party. I can partially understand that you want to regulate work in black through this little bit, but, you know, you're actually here without realizing it, you're introducing something that I call, not too personally taking microfascism. All our lives we will regulate, and the other thing is that you look through everything – now I remember my good friend, a Slovenian Canadian son-in-law who flew to Slovenia several times said: “Payed, paid, paid...” And we said, "Karlo, what is this?" Because he heard everywhere: "It's worth it, it's not worth it, it's worth it, it's not worth it." You know, these things aren't even that new. These things are in the supremacy of humanity, if I may put it that way. That's the structure of the gift, actually. You want the whole structure of gift, assistance, gifts – today I have already quoted Alenko Zupančič Žerdin, read her interview in Youth, and I will quote again: “Solidarity, common public good, equality – all this is not an easy matter of personal conviction, of thought, but must exist as a social infrastructure. The company must be objectively organised so that it is solidarity.« It's not all business. We're not all of us, and we don't want to be all business. And we can't all be business people, and that's why a lot of them are failing. We're talking about health here, too, you know. You don't realize that now. And now I remember, mine comes, I don't know, just starts going to elementary school, my daughter, explaining to the idiots, something in entrepreneurship. Give me the bush! We're talking about the ideological structure of society, which you're grasping in some fundamentally horrible way. If we want to talk about long-lived society — unfortunately, my late colleague Ida Hojnik Zupanc was involved in social gerontology — there is another story. We have knowledge of Slovenia, let us develop gerontotechnologies that will allow for the extension of autonomy in long-lived society. There's a third story, if I go back to my narrow area of spatial sociology, you have so-called community centers, community centers where this is happening. After all, if the stupid farmer has a fat potato and I'm gonna give someone 50 kilos and he's gonna give me some money for it or not, the liberals should be the first to say, "What will Furs control me here now?" You know, you want to control everything, and that's dangerous. Such a SMC along with SDS – then Zižek will not only shout that he will move out of Slovenia, then I will tie up the culica and actually escape. You know, you have to be a little serious about what things we're talking about. After all, I could also piss you off like a leftist, the basic profit of someone How much? [[…]] Two grand 400? I mean, what are they gonna do, live under a bridge and go to the library and go to this platform or something? [[…]] If I'm a little ugly. If we are not able to create a decent life for those who do not want to be entrepreneurial, if we are not able to create the conditions for entrepreneurship, then we must leave the policy to someone else – or you, or I, do not, I know that I am capable, without false modesty. We have to deal with this in some way in politics. Of course, in the next term, I will have to give serious attention to these matters and regulate them in the roof legislation. As you suggest: A soldier is not elected, but we have as many relatives, children, we will disperse each on ten of these platforms or a little more, we will spin a year as much money as we receive as a Member and Member, and that will be 4% taxed. So I don't even get to the point where some of these mafia structures are going to be able to take hold of this company that's mostly dealing with what's been going on in two of the three system banks this year. That's dangerous. Ideologically irresponsible and dangerous. I hope that we will have a serious discussion about this in the next term. I'd like a little Pirates in the National Assembly, but since they forgot when Barlow died, to discuss it seriously, I'm a little disappointed. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u131	Mrs Vojka Shergan also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I just want to point out a few more things. Above all, we are not a liberal party, but we are a social-liberal party in the Modern Centre Party. That's it. I have to fix this because being just liberal doesn't work. We're socio-liberal. As far as public opinion is concerned, I am afraid that, when we talk about such matters, the willingness to cooperate is already difficult to achieve, as is evident in the debate today, because we are not talking about large companies, we are talking about a small person who could have those of his own resources, one natural person to another natural person. This would only be an extra profit, not like the money he gets from working on the market and where he's employed and so on. It's just as additional when he finds out that he has some resources at home that he can offer to another. Once again, I stress that this is only as an additional profit and not as an entrepreneurship. I agree that we're going to have to talk about this, obviously more. This is what this debate has shown today, and I believe that this will spread with more participation, with more debates and with multiple presentations of such views and opinions or presentations as to what the collaborative economy is, also among people, because it is easier when people understand what it is. I remember the first time I met grapes, which my colleague mentioned earlier, but some people still don't really understand it today, and 10 years ago they understood it much less. So, indeed, this positive attitude needs to be broadened, especially so that through the collaborative economy and these platforms people can also connect and somehow exchange services. That's what you'd have for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u133	Thank you. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 27, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 3. 2018, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate the 21st agenda item and the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which we shall continue on Tuesday, 27. 3. 2018, 15 minutes after the 56th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. It was interesting to hear this and apparently only new parties are ready to discuss it to the end.
