ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Eva Irgl, Marinka Levičar, Ljudmila Novak, Marija Bačič, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Janja Slug from 2.30 p.m. to 17 p.m., Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer from 15 p.m. to 19 p.m., Maruša Škopac, Andreja Potočnik, Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Vesna Vervega, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 5:30 p.m., mag. Alenka Bratušek, Violeta Tomić until 16:00 and from 19:00 onwards, Bojan Podkrodšek, Roberto Battelli, Uroš Prikl, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Dr. Milan Brglez from 16.30 to 18.30 hours, Matjaž Hanžek, Jernej Vrtovec, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. László Göncz from 17:00 onwards, Branko Zorman from 15:00 to 18:00, mag. Branislav Rajić, Ivan Hršak from 18:00 on, Primož Hainz from 18.30 on, Jan Škoberne from 17:00 on, Franc Ly, Dr. Franc Trček, Miha Kordiš and Luka Moon from 17:00 on. I really welcome all those present in this hall. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday, 6 October 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recommended in relation to the misuse of detection and prosecution authorities and the judicial area. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 25 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, first signed. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u2	Thank you very much. For twenty pages of text I have at my disposal 10 minutes. That means I'm gonna have to supplement myself with benches. What is the purpose of today's meeting from the point of view of the proposers? In recent years we have witnessed many abuses on the relationship between the police and the prosecution or separate segments. Courts often correct their mistakes. In the first part of our request, we have presented so-called closed cases, which are judicially concluded and we can debate them without any reservation, because we all know them. The names are often known, but often they are people who are not known to the public. In the second part, we point out, for example, that the police, the prosecution or the judiciary do not decide, does not act or acts badly, but is also a case of abuse in the case I am talking about. Next, I'll try to present some cases, briefly, and the rest later on from the bench. But I have a wish and a request for two of my next interlocutors, for Mr Radić and for Mrs Porotat, to respond to my performances and the cases I will tell you. Yesterday we witnessed a verdict in the Impol case. Two people who damaged this society for a million and a half, I said a billion and a half wrong this morning, were found guilty yesterday and got two years probationary. So, a million and a half, two years on probation. Let's add to this a legal case of technical inspections somewhere from Gorenjska There were about 100 police officers or something that were engaged for terrible abuses in Gorenjska, for technical checks because someone was taking bribes. Ladies and gentlemen, the court proved him guilty and was convicted. Do you know how many? For three years, it's unconditional. Two of the next speakers, please, if you're trying to help me explain, because I don't understand. I believe that even Slovenian people, Slovenians and Slovenian citizens do not, how is it possible for you to get two and a half years on probation for a million and a half damages. And how is it possible for you to get EUR 250 for three years unconditionally? I'm asking for help. I'm not capable enough to understand that. Let's move on. Elections 2011 and elections 2014. This is public information written about the newspapers, so there is no particular problem. EKO-PARK, I think that Murska Sobota or Lendava, somewhere there, will charge Mr Danil Türk a thousand Euros for the election campaign, the Court of Auditors will report the case and find that it was a violation of the law. Look at him, the company gets a reminder. So, for a thousand 500 euros, but when a society in Maribor ordered the current Maribor mayor 100 euros, 100 euros, I stress, in an equally illegal way, the same laws were broken, and this society received 5,000 euros in fines. I'm asking for your help, my next interlocutor, and I'm not capable enough to understand that. How is it possible for you to get a €100 fine of €5,000 and for a thousand and 500 you get a reminder? I explain to myself that it is a matter of a politically biased trial, that the one on the right side is judged in this way and the other. Let's move on. How is it possible for 124 euros of unpaid municipal affairs to be taken away and sold to Mr Vaskrisic? House! Compare this matter with Mr Jankovic and tell him why they write down 16 million. They're writing down 16 million! So we write down 16 million and sell the house to the man for 124 euros. To make the measure even greater, about ten days ago, a bill was issued in New Town for the sale of a two - room apartment in a block. The lady who lives in that block was unable to pay 350 euros in municipal matters. The court has ordered the sale of the apartment, the sale of its apartment. I'm through the media to the court because I couldn't help but pay for the case, just so this lady could stay in her apartment. I also asked the question of the Member of Parliament and then they cancelled the order. The President of the Court said we know nothing about the Vaskrsic case. As if the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights were not binding on them. Let's keep looking. This morning we were talking about the ZOPNI, the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin. Ladies and gentlemen, the former Mayor of Maribor, Kangler, belongs or is under this procedure, on a proposal from the Prosecutor's Office. For a 35-year-old tractor, he has to prove where he got it. Now, why don't you tell me why the courts don't start these proceedings against those who took three and a half billion. Why don't the courts start these proceedings against those who received 300 million commissions in Iran? They investigate and deal with a 35-year-old tractor. And I'm asking everyone here who's going to come after me to try and help me understand this because I don't understand it. Let's keep looking. In 2010, several ten police officers walked after the National Assembly, almost half-cuffed to the top and down of Mr Jelinčič, and at the same time they closed up, thus depriving me of the freedom to be a professional, Mursophosian mayor, the former mayor of Štichec. He wasn't in the process, and his freedom was taken. He shouldn't have called his mother. He shouldn't have called his wife. He and his mother were agreed to go to the cemetery. He was deprived of his freedom. A cop went to the bathroom with him and stood outside the door. It's a seizure of liberty, we have nothing here. And he wasn't on trial, and he was never on trial. The investigation was led by Mr Jevšek, who, of course, took matters to heaven and later became the mayor of the city. Now tell me this is a coincidence. It's not a coincidence, it's not a coincidence. It's abuse! Finally, some other cases, such as the case of Mr Magajna, must also be said. You know exactly where he was sitting as an MP, and they told him if you don't vote for the RTV Act, we're gonna get back at you. And they did. “Fasal” is a house investigation in 2016 or at any time, pardoned any guilt. Ladies and gentlemen, this is abuse! But if you're a minister's father-in-law, you beat up your first neighbor and say to this neighbor, "You know what, you're 85 years old, you'll be baptized before I'm judged." This has already happened to us. And this gentleman's prediction is coming true. Today Mr. is 87 years old, and there is still nothing on the court's side. Will the court wait for him to be baptized or what? Ladies and gentlemen, these are the cases we want to talk about and I will continue with the bench because I have run out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u3	In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mrs Ivi Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u4	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members! The situation in the area of detection and prosecution of crime and confidence in the judiciary in Slovenia is at an unsuspectingly low level. Many cases of violations of constitutionally protected human rights and fundamental freedoms, excesses of powers for the purpose of abuse indicate that there is a great void in this area, which we can call corruption, or, if you want, deliberate harm, delaying procedures with the sole purpose of – ending proceedings without a conviction or filing criminal charges, lynching and discrediting people, and then for years to do so. All of this happened in the cases described in the proposal for recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. These are judicial proceedings in which it is more than obvious that they have not been guided in accordance with the principle of justice and accountability. This is a condition for the functioning of the rule of law and its democratic processes. On the one hand, we have cases of individuals being accused very quickly – Robert Fojkar, Zoran Vaskrsić, Franc Kangler, Andrej Magajna, Patria. The common denominator for all is a lack of evidence, a number of procedural infringements and illegal decisions, and at the end of the legal release of any guilt or limitation and the resulting compensation of the European Court of Human Rights. We need to think of the information that in 22 years of the total of 341 judgments, this court granted to Slovenian complainants in 319 cases, as it found a violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. These judgments are followed by high compensations paid by all taxpayers. On the other hand, we have cases where, despite the numerous legal evidence obtained, the trial does not take place and the indictments are not tabled, or procedures at the police and the prosecutor's office take place very slowly. For example, we have some cases of Jankovic, Rok Furlan, Zalar, Škrlec, Fisher. As such violations are repeated because many institutions and individuals warn us of the poor situation in Slovenian justice, we have explicitly pointed out in the proposal the individual cases in which we can see far from Slovenia that we have a rule of law for influential and wealthy citizens and a rule of law for small, ordinary people. In New Slovenia, we stress the responsibility of the judge or the prosecutor for the vote he gave as a member of a body. We stress the necessity of control within the judicial and prosecutorial systems. Failure to act and lack of self-reflection casts a bad light on the whole of justice. Therefore, we would only recommend that the Government, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office should, within the framework of their powers, prepare a report analysing the cases that have been legally closed, which have identified violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. At the same time, solutions should also be proposed to ensure fair, impartial treatment of individuals in the pre-trial procedure, a reasonable trial and a logical examination of the existence of the personal responsibility of the personnel and officials of the detection and prosecution and prosecution authority. We do not know this today in Slovenia. We therefore propose that you adopt the recommendations and thus ensure the establishment of a normal country where all citizens are subject to the same rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u5	At its 32nd urgent meeting, on 9 October 2017, the Committee on Justice considered the Committee on Justice as its parent labour force. Since the Committee did not adopt the recommendations at the end of the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mrs Ivi Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u6	Your Honor! At its 32nd urgent meeting, on 9 October 2017, the Committee of Justice considered as a working body the proposal for a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the abuse of detection and prosecution authorities and the judicial branch of authority submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank as a candidate, and was published on the website of the National Assembly on 5 October 2017. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Government. On behalf of the applicant, an additional explanation was submitted by the representative of the magi. Branko Grims, who stressed that one of the foundations of democracy is certainly the confidence of people in the justice system and in its institutions, because otherwise democracy does not work and is only a farce. The proposer points out that in Slovenia the confidence of the public in the independence of the courts and judges is very low. The constitutional right to judicial protection and other related rights are not exercised. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Tina Brecelj, presented a written opinion from the Government, which assesses that the applicant, by selecting particular statistics, data, value assessments and descriptions of specific cases, is trying to create the thesis that there is a systemic problem in Slovenia regarding the failure to ensure fair, impartial and independent treatment of individuals in the forecasting process as well as an independent and fair trial, trial within a reasonable time frame, and thus equality before the law for all. This situation, as stated by the applicant, is neither a domestic analysis nor an assessment by foreign institutions. President of the Supreme Court, Mag. Damjan Floriančič said that the Criminal Procedure Act provides for the possibility of infringements in criminal proceedings, so regular and exceptional remedies are available to participants. He stressed that judges are independent, constitutional and law-bound in the exercise of their judicial functions, and that they judge by their conscience, without external influences or pressures. Aleš Butala, a representative of the Attorney General's Office, stressed that prosecution is in the public interest, as the crime is a delict against society as a whole. Public prosecutors are aware of this and act impartially, professionally, legally and carefully. In the debate, opposition Members cautioned that in Slovenia the people have authority, but they do not trust the judiciary. By examining violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms by the detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary in the period 1994-2016, people's confidence in the justice system and greater independence of the judiciary would be enhanced and they would prevent unequal treatment of citizens. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to paragraphs 1, 2, and 3. In accordance with Articles 126 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he voted on all points of the proposal together and did not accept them, thus completing the consideration of the recommendations on the home labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u7	To present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! For the introduction of a few facts from the opinion of the Government. The number of judges is steadily decreasing. According to today's data, there are 891, and let me remind you that not long ago we were talking about a number over a thousand. This morning you were able to accompany the meeting of the Justice Committee, where the annual report of the Supreme Court for the previous year was presented. When the number of judges was further reduced, it was found that most courts controlled or controlled the case last year. The number of pending cases has decreased, and the expected time to resolve matters and the average time to resolve matters has also been reduced. In last year, higher courts received 8.4% fewer cases, the number of cases received has virtually decreased in all legal areas and the number of pending cases has decreased. This is the case with the Court of First Instance, which deals with legal remedies against the decisions of the Court of First Instance. This is what I'm talking about, because the lower fallout can give us hope that more and more users of judicial services have been entrusted with the first-degree decision. All of these are the data we are monitoring, and if the situation in the field of justice were so critical and full of abuses, I believe that data would also show this. Disciplinary proceedings against judges. That too has often been the subject of talk in this house. The number of cases dealt with was between 2014 and 2013, of which 3 were in the last year. We see that the system still has built-in self-regulatory mechanisms that operate or operate to a certain extent. Why am I saying all this? So that we can all see together that the system works and shows positive trends, which will certainly need to be upgraded. Now to the draft for the session. The applicant seeks to create the thesis that there is a systemic problem of ensuring fair, impartial and independent treatment of individuals in Slovenia by selecting the particular statistics, data and value of these assessments, and by describing concrete, mostly closed judicial or prosecutorial cases. In the forecasting process and also further, the thesis is that there is no independent and fair trial within a reasonable time frame and thus equality before the law for all. On the basis of individual cases, I believe that we can all agree on this, the Government cannot take the view that the situation in the field of organ labour, detection and prosecution, the Police and the State Prosecutor's Office, as well as the judiciary, is all on average alarming and scandalous. Such conditions do not show domestic statistics or the ranking of our justice by foreign institutions. The proposal recommended that the Government prepare an analysis and solutions to ensure that individuals are treated fairly, impartially and independently is unnecessary in our opinion, as the Government and the Ministry of Justice have already proposed and adopted in this mandate a number of systemic measures and legislative changes that strengthen the accountability of the judiciary and have already been confirmed in the National Assembly. If I mention just a few. The conduct of disciplinary proceedings against judges shall be taken over by the Council of Justice, as a non-member of the judiciary, but there have been no interventions in this area so far. Well, he was now. Next. A Supervisory Service for the Management of Courts was established at the Ministry of Justice, which is administered by a Judge-in-Charge. A reform of the State's defence has been carried out, and a more objective and transparent procedure for the selection of candidates for judicial and prosecutorial office has been established. A mandatory public publication of the list of deletions from the lawyer directory was introduced, the possibility of photographing and recording judges prior to the opening of the public main hearing and the oral announcement of the decision on cases where the public is not excluded. A free examination of the data provided by the Court of Justice and the public publication of the judgments of the Courts of First Instance was established. Separate opinions have been introduced in the Supreme Court, in addition to the proposal to establish a more transparent call system for the appointment of value holders and experts, the abolition of the political appointment of state defenders. I could still count it. We are also planning measures in the field of implementation, evaluation and interpretation, in which, at least not so comprehensively, it has so far not been legally affected, even though we know how often a fair decision depends on the conscientious part of the judicial expert, the evaluator or, lastly, the interpreter. I am talking about the right decisions, the quality, the judicial decisions in which people trust because they are professionally justified. The past governments have been forced to deal primarily with measures to curb judicial backlogs. Therefore, all these measures have been neglected. Now that the situation is different and it has been found that judicial backlogs are no longer a systemic problem, there will also be enough time and energy for these, if I can call them joint nouns, quality enhancement projects. We are facing, and that is a fact, the issue of the generation gap between judges. We are preparing the starting points for the re-entry of the judicial and prosecutorial functions – I am talking about the legal examination that we are putting on new ground, and I could also list it. Under the line, because the situation in justice is positive, it gives us the basis for us to continue with the oriented work ahead. If confidence in or difficulty in following up on home assessments may start, I should like to mention a few other international ones. In the field of the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, Slovenia, according to a report by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights at the end of 2015, had a total of 309 outstanding judgments, representing more than 95% of all judgments. At the end of last year, the situation was completely different, with only 49 outstanding judgments, which is less than 15%. In this regard, I invite you to visit the website of the Ministry of Justice where we are publishing activities on human rights and the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in a new way. For our efforts in this area, we have also been particularly commended by the Council of Europe. Honourable Members, including all those who accompany us through screens, it is possible to agree that every single government mandate has been marked by efforts to upgrade the legal system in order to act even more honestly, effectively and confidently. If the problem of Slovenian justice has been a key problem in recent years and all possible levers have to be adopted for their incarceration, justice is now faster. Trials are proceeding more continuously, and the number of judges is falling. We are also approaching the target set for 2020 in this area. The specific cases highlighted in the reference material are certainly the right of the proposer to comment on them. It is right to read and listen to comments, but on these grounds I would not like to conclude that, on the basis of these cases, it is possible to say that in the judiciary there is an abuse of detection and prosecution authorities and a violation of the limits of powers with a view to abuses of illegal interference, constitutionally protected human rights and fundamental freedoms. Respectable proponents, cases before Slovenian courts and prosecutions are much more than mentioned in your materials. You do not comment on these, but they are also, if we are based on the basic premise that we are all the same before the law, equally important. For the person involved, they may be of vital importance and it is for the benefit of all people that we need to stress that we have a functioning system in the country. We have judges and prosecutors suing and judging on the basis of the Constitution and the laws. We have regular and extraordinary legal remedies that are available to users to prove themselves right, and we have functioning mechanisms that sanction irregularities or illegalities. In the system of shared power, the government will continue to seek to build up the system levers that will approach the intended objective. We intend to continue with the measures considered. That is why our proposal was to reject today's recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u10	Thank you, President, a nice greeting to everyone. Is the situation of detection and prosecution of crime in Slovenia exemplary? It's not. Is the situation with regard to the functioning of the judiciary in Slovenia an example? It's not. Is the situation in both areas as catastrophic as they try to show us again the multitudes of lustration recommendations made by the SDS? It's not. As a result, I can only confirm one thing, and that is that in Levica we certainly agree that more needs to be done and things improved. However, is lustration, all of which is, if we read correctly, resolve, forgive appropriately, taking into account, in particular, the fact that it is a large part of the cases that should serve as evidence that the judiciary and the other branches do not act in relation to the proceedings against representatives or the co-thinkers of the proposers? It's not. In Levic, we have repeatedly highlighted our starting points. We have repeatedly said that there is no need to look for the right path in any excessively radical changes, that the right path is actually to solve those problems that are obvious, the problems that we know our justice has. First, the current system of appointment of judges needs to be rectified. Package appointment is certainly not the appropriate way to choose better personnel. I even hope to say that Lukenda, the Janša government's project, is certainly a covert one, that we have people in the system today who, without such a project, would probably not even be elected to a judicial function. Another thing that certainly has a significant impact on the quality of all these processes is saving. Financial cuts have not spared either the judicial branches of power or the law enforcement authorities. If you add to this a lack of resources for regular training and education, the measure for such situations as we have is, in fact, full. And this is where the guilt is shared. In fact, all past governments are responsible. The police, the courts, the prosecutions and everyone else who operates in this system received reckless austerity. It is particularly critical for us and, unfortunately, it also shows as an increasingly real feeling that in Slovenia we have two legal states, one for the rich and the other for the poor. And this feeling was encouraged by the first Janša government, Pahoreva continued and did the same for Cerarje. In all the judicial laws we have pointed out in Levi, we have also put forward concrete proposals and solutions, but there has never been a crucial and most pressing issue of support from both the coalition and the right opposition. What are the effects of this saving, which has driven the rift to the rule of law for the rich and for the poor? Look at this absurdity, where the materially weakest for a good hundred or something are Euros will lose their roof over their heads. While the rich hide their assets in tax havens, exploit workers, avoid paying taxes and continue in such or other affairs, the working people and the unemployed face ever more severe poverty. These are the problems that we should be talking about, not the mines, as the SDS' representative would like to say, which are undoubtedly the recommendations. In particular, this list proves that neither of the parties actually wants a well-functioning rule of law. The SDS jumps into the air if they close theirs, and jumps into the air even if they don't lock someone else who's out of their league. The second part of the political establishment is the same. Unless we come up with an affair where a coalition arises between the right opposition or non-social Democrats, for example, such as the case of TES 6. That's when they all go up in the air. That justice is not in excellent condition, it benefits all those involved in such or other judicial proceedings. First of all, old politicians, successful economists and sheriff mayors. And that is also the reason for today's introduction, and we must take this into the intervention of the Minister of Justice. It's more than obvious that the election is at the door. In an attempt to rehabilitate John Janša, it is obvious that we must do our best. This is only possible if the judiciary is being undermined all the time, and it all the time points out that it is manipulated, biased, politically motivated, udbov and what is also involved. The same could be said for the Commission to prevent corruption. Did anyone else think that everyone involved in the affairs actually came to the point that the Commission was not working? Anyone who cannot explain where the money came from shall be deemed to have made mistakes in the proceedings and that the Administrative Court has annulled the final finding. With this, we draw attention from the fact that we still do not know where the money comes from, such as Janez Janša or Zoran Jankovic. But apparently for some in this country, money actually grows on trees. At the same time, we can only think that the main objective of such action is to rehabilitate convicts and all others who face daily affairs, judicial proceedings, house investigations. And it is clear that none of them wants to have confidence in justice, in the rule of law in our country at an extremely high level. Then they'd just be guilty. Today, however, they have the opportunity to refer to the catastrophic situation of the judiciary and the law enforcement authorities. That they are not guilty of committing a crime, but because it is a political construct because the judiciary is biased because this same court violates human rights. What we will listen to today is not a debate on how to improve justice or how to ensure that decisions in justice are swift and, above all, fair. This is about personal interests disguised as a covert concern about the state of our justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u11	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u12	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a debate on the situation in institutions that are still important for the functioning of the rule of law. And trust in institutions is the foundation of the rule of law. Of course, we have different views from that classic German Rechtsstaat to modern theories, through Rule of Law and constitutionalism in which to stop. More and more cases are coming to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has become increasingly important in the country and is increasingly a defender, the last human rights defender. It is interesting, for example, that decisions of the Constitutional Court are increasingly being commented on by the Court itself. The most recent decisions of the Constitutional Court state that the judgments of the higher and supreme courts were adopted on the basis of an arbitral ruling and how important this is for the functioning of the rule of law. It is trying to minimise the work of the Constitutional Court, by the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court. That is how we come to the so-called fluid rule of law, which has developed in Slovenia, which is characterised by the fact that there are specific decisions of all institutions, creative interpretations of the law, paid opinions and normalisation of deviant conduct. So what's deviant isn't harmful at all, and it's kind of normal. How can this be overcome, in the first place, by the institution itself? We have legislation, it doesn't have to be changed at all. Today we had a debate on the state of the judiciary, where we highlighted some of the problems and found that the reputation of the judiciary by the public is low and that the judges and, above all, the leaders of the courts must take care of the reputation of the judiciary themselves. Based on these statistics, it is interesting that some indicators are positive, others negative, depending on how we look. Cases in the courts are falling. Interestingly, there is an increasing number of cases that have been resolved, but we still have not resolved the decision at the second stage, which is still very important. There is no need to amend legislation, but legislation already allows this, but is not applicable in individual cases. And a very important conflict of interest, the appearance of impartiality, which casts a bad light on the judiciary. If we take a quick look at the DA's office. The prosecutor is the one who runs and directs the forecasting process, the financial crime of another kind, the crime that affects people's lives, the prosecutors who are supposed to lead the proceedings, direct the police, lack sufficient knowledge. The large number of cases falling in court suggests that the concept needs to be changed, the career of the prosecutor monitored and its success monitored. Either things fall because of its failure or worse, it is only a deliberate pressure on the one in the process, and then the prosecutor does not hold on to the deadline, because it is precisely concealing investigative measures, as the greatest intervention in human rights, the essence of which is to conclude without the fact that man is constantly under some pressure, but what is happening here and the abuse of institutions. Of course, the police are the first in the chain to obtain covert investigative measures that are trying to spread, while ignoring classical police work. And here's the key evidence that I'm not talking about house abuse. But where's the key to the problem now? The key to the problem is to run an institution, whether the institution has a career, has a responsibility, operates in the interests of the institution or in its interest or in the interests of someone else who may have put it in this place. The person who runs the institution shall be responsible for the conflict of interest, for the competitive clause, for the misuse of information, for the institution's operation and achievement of its objectives, and for the reputation of the institution. And proper management and staffing is a problem in Slovenia. The cases of human rights abuses that we see every day point to the worst problem in Slovenia, especially in transit countries. It is in certain cases that the abuse of institutions occurs and we can talk about the kidnapped institution, the kidnapped country, the so-called deep state, the 5th branch of the Authority, and the 4th branch of the Authority, the media, who also do not play their part here. To illustrate the end of the case. The system works, the last money laundering through the New Ljubljana Bank, the money laundering prevention system works and, in exceptional cases, all institutions hide. And that's the problem with the kidnapped institutions and the hijacked states. And we have to fight this, so to speak, uncover these cases and find responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u13	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mr Dušan Radič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u14	Your Honor! In Slovenia, public confidence in the independence of courts and judges is at a low level. The proposer of today's meeting draws attention to this very loud and intensely. In doing so, we must ask ourselves why the image of the judiciary in public is so bad. Unfortunately, we have little confidence in the judicial authorities and the entire judiciary, and some have very cleverly put themselves in favour, without a sound basis, without professional evidence and other insight into the whole process of judicial proceedings. The boutique selection of individual cases aims to promote distrust of detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary. Of course, it is the task of the judiciary to ensure that the good results and good experience of users and the professional public reach the general public. However, the role of politicians and in particular the legislator is to ensure that we safeguard the independence and impartiality of the judiciary as a separate branch of government, which is based on the constitutional principle of the division of power. The references to such meetings are trying to have exactly the opposite effect, as the recommendations already made today are contrary to the rule of law. Is this a way to safeguard the independence and impartiality of the judiciary as an autonomous branch of government? Important systemic measures have been taken in this mandate to strengthen accountability and transparency in the functioning of the judiciary. In particular, great progress has been made with regard to the judicial backlogs that have been our key systemic problem over the past 20 years. This is also recognized by the international institutions. The improvement of the judicial system will continue with planned legislative changes affecting the judicial network and the more effective functioning of the judiciary. A number of legislative proposals in this area are in preparation and some are already in the legislative process. The results of the efforts made so far by the judiciary are indisputable and notable and therefore the complainant's findings of the judiciary are largely unjustified and unfounded. However, when it comes to determining the responsibilities of an individual judge, the issue of expertise or competence in a prescribed procedure may be resolved. The possible errors of individual judges make it unacceptable to charge the entire court or to generalise these cases. As a result, Members of Parliament and Members of the Modern Centre Party on the home working body recommended this proposal to the Government. And for the end, a literary supplement. We had a very nice Slovenian teacher, who also told us: “Because the goat did not want to get oily, but wanted to fake it because he was looking over the fence and couldn’t get over the fence, so let him be beaten with nine punches in his shadow.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u15	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! As leftists or a member of the largest government understand the constitutional principle of equality before the law and its practical implementation in the context of the Slovenian law enforcement authorities, the institutions of the justice system, it was very instructive to hear and I hope that the general public has listened attentively. That's why I'm starting with a simple fact. Ladies and gentlemen, the judicial mastics of the highest kind, such as the rejection of evidence against Zoran Jankovic on the suspicion of sexual abuse, would immediately bring the justice minister to any normal democratic state with all his team. Whether he would resign himself or be replaced by the Prime Minister of the Government. In Slovenia, “no one has anything”. It's Balkan. Welcome to the legal or illegal country of Slovenia. What is the characteristic of the legal state of Slovenia, which is an irregular state? The division between citizens of the first and citizens of the second order. If you're a citizen of the First Order, a real leftist, then you're off 16 million debt, and if you're still on Jankovic, there's evidence of your suspicion of sexual abuse. There's no epilogue in court, nothing happens to you, you're legally clean as a tear. But if you're a second-class citizen, you can have a house sold at auction for € 124, and then you can sue there to Strasbourg. And if you happen to succeed there, those years you lost and everything you've been through, no one can repay you. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what some people used to make a fool of here. This is totally unacceptable, it is not only inconsistent with the Constitution, but it is a total denial and disgrace of the Slovenian state, and we are experiencing this by the institutions of the State of Slovenia. Anyone who does not understand what the principle of equality means before the law, please read at least a book that clearly states that the same laws apply to all citizens and citizens in the same way that all have the same rights, including the same right to judicial protection. What about this in Slovenia, however, will have to look at specific cases. It is of great interest to me that the Government is disturbed by the listing of specific cases. Yeah, how are you gonna show what's wrong if you don't give specifics? If you speak in general, the same government will say: “Yes, you have not stated anything concrete.” So I'm going to give you some concrete examples. Robert Fojaker's case. The man convicted of paedophilia, expelled from society, 11 years of lawsuit in court, eventually all rejected, all finished, received 5,000 euros in compensation. In a normal state of law there would be a million dollars, you can trust me. The example of Zoran Vaskrisic, 124 euros in debt, is taken from his house, seized and sold at auction. Frank Kangler's case is the first case of political murder. The accused, convicted, later by the Supreme Court, the following instance finds that he was convicted even of a crime that was not a criminal offence at all. Excuse me? It wasn't a crime at all. Do I spell it? This is happening in Slovenia. What was the result of all this prosecution? He was denied the opportunity to be a state councilor, could not represent the people he was elected to the State Council, and could not represent the local community he represented. In short, he was violated in the gravest form of human and civil rights. To this day, the story is not complete. There's a similar case of the political murder of Anton Schihtz. There was a mayor, suddenly there was an investigation that was extremely long, then he was deprived of his liberty, he was never charged at all, not then, be careful, not at any time later. No court epilogue. He was even deprived of the right to communicate with his neighbors, even his own mother. And behold, the person responsible for the investigation was elected to the same mayor one year later. That's what they say, first the discreditation, then the liquidation, in accordance with the instructions of the little great leader. The case of Andre Magajne. It's another case of political murder. Whether we would believe that we live in a country where billions of euros are being washed or even billions of dollars, but when it comes to a process against a single Member, all the funds are being used and then, look, a miracle, all the evidence is lost. Not only is all the evidence destroyed, not only is there no judicial epilogue in the end, but they even lost computers, those that were seized by him personally, the National Assembly and so on. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the right name to call yourself abuse of the system, abuse of the institutions of the system. A similar case is the case of Alenka Bratusek. What an investigation she had against her, that she dared to take part in a vote about herself and that it was a massive act of corruption. Well, I guess so. Sure. The case, which was absurd, ended in an absurd way, in the end it was nothing, but it has one very interesting part that borders, forgive me, in a normal country it would be called a coup. For investigating Alenka Bratušek, the police conducted an investigation at the headquarters of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at Dr. Mir Cerar. If they believed in the reports, they were there even at the time of his absence, and certain things were taken away. Very interestingly, I must say how this legal state works. Because crows don't rule out eyes, as they used to say, the matter didn't have any epilogues. If they were a normal legally functioning country, believe me, when the President of the Government returned from abroad, one of the ministers would therefore say good-bye very quickly from his place. And that, like on Tibetan graves, was all quiet. Otherwise, how can we expect something else from the government and the ruling coalition that itself has formed on such a basis? The Patria trial. The reasoning of the Constitutional Court’s judgment states that, from the first to the last line, there was only one violation of human rights in all its works and actions. This is a brief summary of the Constitutional Court’s judgment. But some people are still listed here today, and I suppose they even believe that it is perfectly normal for one investigation to take years and years to revive again right before the next elections and to finally experience, let's say, ecstasy in shutting down the chief of the opposition just before the next state elections. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who sit here with the government are worthy of illegality, because this government can be legally elected, but it is illegal because it has been elected in illegal circumstances. Even if it was later placed in the right light by the Constitutional Court. The matter is even more shameful, as all those who voted in coalition lines to rescue John Janša from his post were warned that this is clearly contrary to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I've read this to you. I've read six judgments to you. Nevertheless, you voted like you did, and everyone at the end of the day led by the President of Parliament, who even publicly declared that he would take responsibility if it turned out to be a violation of human rights. We should have left our post after the case had an epilogue at the Constitutional Court. But nothing happened. For in this country is the largest party and the entire ruling leftist coalition with one extension in the opposition, which has sworn to respect the rule of law and to respect responsibility as the foundation of the rule of law. But when it comes to the question of responsibility, then we are there, thirty years ago, “I hear no good” and then suddenly no one knows anyone, knows no longer the law, but above all it is said, “Yes, I have been elected to power, but you do what you want”. This, of course, does not have anything to do with democracy, not with some fundamental ethical principles, on which Dr. Cerar also swore. And I'm gonna say again what I said at the beginning. If a minimum of political responsibility were to apply in this country, such legal hoax as the rejection of evidence after two years, when the deadline for the indictment against Zoran Jankovic for the suspicion of abuse of the position, for the suspicion of sexual exploitation, would have passed immediately, or even the whole government. With us — have you heard anything about responsibility? Then there would be no need for such a debate here today, there would be no need for interpretation, there would be no need for any minimum political responsibility in this country in this coalition. But there's absolutely nothing in the left hand. That's why we're moving on with cases. The problem is when the same people appear in the same procedures, even though we all know that this would not be acceptable when someone is already making public statements about what he will do, and when the person decides later in the process, of course, there are cases that reduce people's trust in the system institutions. Just like everything I've counted to this point. The problem is, I'm afraid it's even planned. Because it is not the goal of left-wing people to go to mass elections, they want as many of the poor as possible who follow blindly, as few students as possible, so now you are changing their constitution so that children from poorer families who are more gifted could not go to those schools that give them a better program, that is, private schools. Left-wing students in private schools, the Lukšič case, and Mr Kučan sent his daughter to America to a private university and so on, you all know that, so that by swearing on private education and by imposing actual private education, you will not be able to provide adequate education to others. And your goal is to get as many people as you can out of the political system, so they can fall for the fact that they're all the same. We're not all the same, and we never will be. One of them was silent as a grave when someone here was laundering a billion euros, and one of us discovered it. One of them was in negotiations on the eve of Slovenia's independence with the generals of JLA and the officers of Kos, while one of us carried weapons and defended Slovenia. We were never all the same, and we never will be. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about today must be taken gravely seriously because it is a question of people's confidence in the system. And that's the basis for democracy's work. If there is no confidence in the system, people also lose confidence in themselves, in their own voice, and do not realize that it is their voice that decides in democracy. And then the election abstinence, which by the way is the characteristic of Slovenia. You know, we used to have 90% participation, but today, if it comes to 50%, everyone's happy, what a high participation it was. At the same time, it also hampers people's decision-making with all kinds of things, further makes it difficult for them to participate in the elections and to make decisions at the referendums. That's not good in democracy. However, in order to be full, people do not receive the proper conduct of law enforcement or judicial institutions. The result is that we are on the far tail or, if you want, at the bottom of confidence in justice, which of course is not good. How do people experience this on their own? I personally know a very good case, you probably all know who I'm talking about. If you're a citizen of the First Order, the journalist just writes that you could be corrupt, I speak from memory, I think it's been nine weeks, and there's been a legal judgment handed down to this reporter in court. Aiga, you dare write something, one suspicion over a first-class citizen. But if you're a second-class citizen, even a family with children can be declared a Nazi, and you'll be suing in court for six years, and it won't be over. No, no, no, no, no! Ten years from now, maybe in Strasbourg, if he does. The question is, what happens if you're still alive? By the way, the courts have turned this around so that you can pay all the costs on your own. And finally, when you find that out, when you formally achieve that it's judged for your benefit, you're actually being punished with about 40, 50 thousand euros of net punishment, because you've actually paid that much, and no one's paying that back. But people don't understand it at all and they don't understand how this system works. One of the main culprits for this side of the justice system is also the Justice Minister, who, by the way, when he was presenting his programme on the Justice Committee, promised that a greater selection of judges would be made, that he would also fulfil the coalition commitment, that there would be longer periods of trial in judges to support the penal function of compensation, that he explicitly said he was in favour, so the law would have to be amended. Do you know what that means? This means that when someone does something bad to you, such as in health care or elsewhere, in different areas of social life, then there is such a punishment that no one ever calculates with it. Today, because you know what's been going on in this country, there are cases where some of them were deliberately operating on worse material. There were the worst consequences, but what, the damages are so low that he still profited in the end. The same calculation can be done in any area of social space. This is because we do not have the final function of compensation, even though many have talked about it and Chaferin wrote a book about it. Mr. Minister, who has explicitly supported this, has done nothing until today. That's why we have the condition we have. Nor has he ever exercised personal responsibility in all those who were personally the most responsible in the cases that we are talking about today — even those that were particularly exposed to the Constitutional Court — either their conduct or their specific case that they knew exactly that there was no minimum doubt about the commandment. And you know, the rule of law is that anyone who is silent agrees. And whoever makes a fool out of this, let him think it over. It is not said that it will always apply to the citizen of the first order and that is why these things are so wrong. They should all be the same before marriage. Before the law, the same criteria should apply to all and should be the same for all when it comes to conduct, concrete conduct, if you want, law enforcement, but for some it is so, and for others it is different. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, this democracy does not work as it should. But it is not only a political issue or, if you want, a legal question, but it is also an important development issue. What do you think this looks like for one entrepreneur? There are cases like this as many as you want. Some experience incredible speed again, and if they have first-class citizenship, there is no problem. But I know a personal case where people have played them, because you know what kind of financial non-discipline is, and various frauds in the country of Slovenia, went to court. He didn't get the money for his employees as an entrepreneur, so he went to the lawsuit. The Court ruled so long that not only the company went bankrupt, there were even cases and you all know how many such cases there were, some were extremely well known when people committed suicide, they hung themselves because they simply did not wait for justice in court. What is really the right to judicial protection, constitutionally speaking? It's not just that you have the right to go to court, but that you're not being manipulated in a court of law, so let's say, like in some compensation case that I've talked about before, they throw it all back to grade 1, and you pay the costs, and the fees, and the lawyers, and so on, and they play you with it. In addition, if the matter is to be carried on indefinitely, it is also the fact that, if it is at the end of a sentence, there must be a sentence of judgment within a reasonable period of time, and I fear that the current government still has a completely different understanding of the concept of a reasonable period than it does on average somewhere in the European Union. On the other hand, the execution of the judgment or its enforcement must also be within a reasonable time frame. All of this is very problematic when we talk about these things. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, as long as we have a division into citizens of the 1st Order, which is free of 16 million debts to which they are being liquidated, there is indisputable evidence of any sexual abuse, on the one hand, and on the other hand a person who is to receive 200 euro bribes is to be shut down for three years, or a house is to be taken from someone who owes 124 euros. There's something wrong in this country. Something doesn't work under the Constitution. And that's how long there'll be no trust in the institutions of the system. The responsibility for this, ladies and gentlemen, that this is happening is with those who decide. On the one hand, there is an executive branch of government where each minister is personally responsible, subjective and objective for the work he does in the field, and what the law states. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of the majority, the ruling majority or, if you like, the ruling coalition to adopt the relevant rules in the National Assembly and to make specific decisions when it comes to decision-making in individual matters. With both of them, this coalition fell on the line. And then it hides too often for what the press likes to do, if, yes, Parliament has decided so. No, the ruling coalition decided, and when it warned itself in time, she wouldn't hear. Specifically in the case that we are talking about today. We have proposed three decisions, the first to entrust the Government with collecting all cases where in recent years either the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia or the Court of Human Rights of the European Union in Strasbourg have annulled individual judgments or indisputably found human rights violations in the proceedings. On a proposal from the government, the ruling coalition rejected this. On this basis, the second proposal was to prepare a set of decisions, actions, acts, everything necessary to correct, on the one hand, what can be corrected, and on the other hand to prevent such things from happening. On a proposal from the government, the ruling coalition also rejected it. The third proposal of the decision was to establish a specific responsibility, because it is legally possible to determine, in accordance with the Slovenian legal order, if someone in all these stories has either abandoned the obligation to act, the definition of corruption, and is responsible for this whether he has knowingly violated any article of the law, so he committed a criminal act. These people should be held accountable. If there is no such responsibility, at least disciplinary responsibility where a disciplinary offence can be proved. On a proposal from the government, the ruling coalition also rejected this. .With this you have demonstrated crystal clear policy of the ruling leftist coalition led by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Dr. Miro Cerar. If you're a little thief, a chicken thief, and you accept 200 Euro bribes, you get three years in prison. If you're gonna waste it, you're gonna cheat, whatever it is, 16 million, you're gonna be sorry, but if you wash a billion, then you're not gonna hurt anybody. This is part of this story you've presented to the public. The second part of the story is that as long as people vote left-wing, it is a guarantee that they will not even want to talk about cases, in sky-drinking cases of human rights violations in justice, that nothing will be done to remedy the consequences of grave human rights violations in justice, and that, to the extent possible, it will be prevented from occurring in such cases. And the third time no one's ever gonna answer for anything. That, ladies and gentlemen, is left-wing politics. We are against this in the SDS as a whole, and we will always be, so today this meeting is necessary. This meeting is necessary for cases where, even after two years of warning by a competent judge, an indictment against someone known as left-handed is not brought in due time. Although there are hearings, appropriate evidence, hearings, anything to accuse a person of sexual abuse and then the case never experiences a judicial epilogue. That's why 16 million debt is forgiven. That's no problem. This, ladies and gentlemen, is totally unacceptable, is a parody of the rule of law and is fundamentally inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this meeting is necessary. That the conclusions I have previously presented, on a proposal from the Government, have been completely rejected and that we will not even decide on them today, is contrary to what some of you have previously stated. It's a first-class disgrace. I only hope that she looks at you now and listens to us all over Slovenia and that she will think very much about who she will give her voice to in the next elections. I hope no one will run like a zombie for new faces in the last election. Then you always get one and the same, and it's always the same situation in justice and Slovenia's developmental decline. The only time we started to put an end to these things was 2004-2008. And interestingly enough, even though Lukenda's program was stumbled by someone left-wing, it is someone who will soon be able to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the October Revolution and who likes to walk around in a shirt with the image of Che Guevara, a man who is a mass murderer and, by the way, personally likes to kill gays, homosexuals and young girls. And with a man like that, some brag. If that's what he's saying about justice, then we shouldn't be surprised if the state of justice is the way it is. But it's always up to voters. And the voters are always right in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government. What about the recommendations made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the abuse of detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary? In Desus, we point out that policies by undermining mistrust in the judiciary contribute greatly to the dissatisfaction of people. We believe that the Government or the Ministry of Justice has taken many good steps in this mandate to improve the situation in the judiciary. Last but not least, according to statistics, judicial proceedings have been reduced in large part. Many solutions and measures have been put in place to enhance transparency in the functioning of the judiciary. Let me just name a few. A more objective and transparent procedure for the selection of candidates for election in the judicial and prosecutorial functions has been set up, a mandatory public publication of the list of deletions from the catalogue of lawyers and the reasons for this, as well as the names of all disciplinary bodies within the Council of Slovenia. A mandatory public publication of the Commission's principled opinions on ethics and integrity within the framework of the judiciary and the prosecution has been introduced. Separate opinions have been introduced in the Supreme Court and many other measures already presented by the Government in its opinion. We all probably agree that in some legal culture, which is based on a high level of trust between the people of the country and the institutions of the country, trust in the judiciary is one of the most important elements. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, trust in the judiciary and also the confidence of citizens in power, i.e. also in this Chamber of Democracy, is at a low level. However, it must be said that there are already better results in the area of confidence in the judiciary. Thus, in the past 20 years, the key problem of Slovenian justice has been the uncontrollable judicial backlog. Many levers were accepted for their incarceration. In doing so, we have been very successful, as the international institutions also acknowledge. At the end of 2016, the Council of Europe’s secretariat assessed that Slovenia’s legislative, organisational, information and other measures had eliminated the legal backlog, indicating that the measures and efforts carried out by all employees in the judiciary had led to a situation where the judiciary was no longer so burdened by the duration of the proceedings and the number of outstanding cases. There was a lot of talk about the number of judges or judges in the Republic of Slovenia. This was also a step forward, as the trend continued in 2016 to reduce the number of judges and judges to 100,000. If I say data, from 44.3 at the end of 2015 to 43.6 at the end of 2016, the judiciary is getting closer to the goal of 42 judges per hundred thousand people in Slovenia. It is difficult to say that nothing is done in the field of justice. Of course, we agree that everything is not in the best order. For example, discussions on the reorganisation of the judiciary would be welcome. In the course of such a debate as we have today, we cannot go beyond the fact that it is simply an attempt at political and personal accounting with the former President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, current Minister Klemenčić, and how it is to be understood from the materials of the proponents, including many other politically-known faces. We do not support such a debate in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia because it shows that this time it is only to continue a harmful and dangerous campaign to undermine confidence in the judiciary. That is why we have already rejected such recommendations on the Committee on Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u20	Dear colleagues, I wish you a good day! Today's debate is certainly not about the political debate or debate about the kind of Slovenia we live in, the kind of Slovenia we want. The debate must go beyond the framework of daily policy and the insinuation of whether or not it is a political account. The key question is whether we live in a just country, whether we have a just country. So a country without double standards. And my answer and New Slovenia's response is certainly that Slovenia is not a just country or a just state to all the same and that there have been a number of double criteria in this country for many years, when one is virtually all permitted, and on the other hand we have, say, small fish, who are honest citizens and regularly pay taxes, and they are punished very quickly for certain minorities by the state or the law. And that's the way it is. If someone makes mistakes, if someone doesn't act in accordance with the law, the constitution, it's only right that he's being punished. See, 77% of people in Slovenia think that Slovenia is not a just country. That's what the statistics show, so we have a double-criteria country. And people are justifiably losing confidence in the country, so we are partly guilty of ourselves, both in politics and in the judiciary. Trust also loses the economy. In 2012, at the top of the economy in Brdo, the first requirement of the economy was: we need a legal state. Why? To protect the money, the capital of these people in the country. We can't call foreign investors if we don't have a state of law, if we don't have a guardian in this area to take care of the money of these people, for investment. Examples show that Slovenia is not a just country; it is not a just country to all the same. Let me first expose corruption in health care. How many people in this country who are responsible have been criminally and retaliatoryly responsible for corruption in health care? Can we count them on one hand's fingers? All doctors at the clinical centre in Ljubljana say that corruption is taking place. The story of TES 6 is familiar to all of us. How many people, including those who have been raising huge sums of unexplained money on ATMs every day, are responsible for these acts of criminal and indemnity? Where are the procedures, and how long are they dragging? No one's ever answered for that. Bank crime. In the sky, the sob stories that indicate that something is very wrong in our country. How many bankers are legally convicted of criminal and indemnity? Nobody. And the key issue in this, in particular with regard to banking crime, is what is wrong with us as a country, that we do not know how to deal with those scoundrels, literally, not just because they were putting unprotected credits in their eyes, but in the meantime they were, proven, also crimes. What is wrong with us that we do not know how to bring these people to justice in a criminal and indemnity manner? It's not about being hurtful. It's about wanting someone to be criminally and requisitionally responsible for their mistakes. No, no, no. It is about establishing the same criteria in this country, the same conditions for all people. Money laundering at the New Bank of Credit Maribor and NLB, suspected money laundering, procedures are carried out for seven, eight, ten years. Only now has it been discovered that this has occurred, and no one has ever been responsible for it. Money in tax havens and so on. On the other hand, we have cases, first of all I'm going to remind you of your former colleague, the Secretary of State at one of the ministries, I think it's the Ministry of Public Administration. It was just a pâté in one of the smaller stores, and the poor poor guy answered, lost his job, and I don't know how the proceedings against him are going, but it's right that he was responding. It's the right thing to do. Another example, at a visit to one of the fairs in southern Slovenia, someone at the stand gave a fellow souvenir. But besides, you don't have to be. He was an inspector. Three thousand euros was fined for this act because he donated and gave without an account Yes, it was a possible crime, however, but, on the other hand, compared to this poor man who donated a souvenir, is someone who has pumped money from banks that, for example, allowed a loan for one project in the vicinity of Ljubljana on a non-constructional, uninhabitable plot, and that is a number of millions of euros. [[..]] This plot is not yet built, not walled up, nor has the congregation council ever made a decision on it. And to you, nothing is going on with this man, even with government help from the state authorities. If anything, then it is a political task, and it is also my goal and my political parties of New Slovenia to establish in this country a just country, a just country for all citizens and citizens. Cases where the state is not fair enough or does not have equal conditions are not the same criteria, there is a very large number. As far as the judiciary is concerned, the judicial branch of power is an autonomous branch of government. We can't bend that, but power alone doesn't just mean justice and power. I'm sure you don't. On the other hand, on the other hand, there is a great deal of responsibility for the legitimate, proper and effective exercise of a trusted function. Many times in the judiciary, at lower levels, as the transfiguration is done, it clearly places responsibility on the superiors because of the fact that in certain stories no one would get burned. But the judiciary has not only rights but responsibilities. And the problem isn't in justice, it's in accountability. Our legislation is still committed to the so-called collective responsibility. I'm sorry. Which, in other words, means that no one has virtually any responsibility for any decision. And the decision-making bodies know who they are, the Judicial Council, the Personal Council, the State Prosecutor's Council, the Disciplinary Commission and these bodies, ladies and gentlemen, can practically hide all those who have influence and power of decision. There is another important element to be highlighted, including the individual who assumes a high function, i.e. an individual with absolute personality and moral integrity. And there can probably never be any doubt about that. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a very problematic, thematic issue, and let us have a common goal of ensuring in this country equal criteria, equal conditions, a fair country for all citizens and citizens. This is why in New Slovenia we supported the proposal on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I have a habit of going sort of according to the pre-controversies. But let me remind all of you and those who are watching us that in my opening remarks, I have asked my interlocutors, in particular Mr Radič, Mrs Popotat and others to try to answer some questions, and of course I have not experienced this. I don't even know what he was talking about with Mr Radič, as he did with Mrs Porotat, as if it were a bad leaf, which happened to Mr Kopmayer a few months ago. Today we are not talking about judicial reform, but we are talking about delays in the number of judges. Who's talking about it? They gave you the wrong brick. Or you have nothing to say. I think SD did the best thing. Look, he has nothing to say. They don't have a point of view. And it's probably a more responsible act, because when you keep quiet, you answer a hundred questions than you sell stupid things that aren't on the agenda. It's a troubled story. But let's go in one order. I thought the secretary of state would leave alone, just like this morning, when both her husbands, I think of the secretary of state and the minister, and send her to the fire. But good, anyway, she's gone, now you're here. The Secretary of State said that the proposaler creates the thesis that the judiciary is not equal to everyone. That's not a problem! That's a fact! That's a fact, not a thesis. Let's go in one order. How could a man in Impola get two years of probation yesterday because he put or damaged Impol for a million and 600 or so in his pocket, and how could that man get three years unconditionally for 250 euros in technical checks in Kranj? Is that some kind of thesis? This is the fact that we have the privilege and that we have ordinary citizens who are being hit on the head by the judiciary. So that's not a problem. How is it possible for the court to give a reminder to ECO-PARK Lendava because a thousand 500 euros have been unlawfully ordered to Mr Danil Türk for an election campaign, while at the same time EUR 100 for the unlawfully ordered money to Mr Fistravec, they give this company 5,000 euros in fines. Is that some kind of thesis? That's a fact! That's a fact, that's not a problem! How is it possible for a man, Vaskrisic, to take the house for 125 euros of outstanding debt? And how is it possible for Jankovic to write down 16 million at the same time? 16 million write-offs, that's for sure! Is that a thesis? That's a fact! It's a decision of the court! So I can't accept that. The Secretary of State shall list the following successes. Yeah, we're not talking about that! The number of judges, judges, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about real cases based on judicial decisions. Now she says there's no abuse in court. So there's no abuse. Now I'm going to try to justify this point because abuse isn't everything from the police, the prosecution to the judiciary, it's not all like that. You have cases where the police have nothing to do with this, the Foykar case. The D.A. got wind that he was guilty and safe. He was guilty for 11 years. And the judiciary has actually annulled this abuse of the prosecution. So much so that we're clear. You have a Kangler case, and it's a police conspiracy! Whatever you're looking at, it's a police conspiracy, and I'm going to justify it, and the prosecution's abuse of justice is making matters right. It's not all about the whole line. But you have cases when it comes to abuse on the whole line. I also need to make this case clear here. When we discussed a topic a few months ago on Mrs Irgle's committee, you were present, Secretary of State, and we later left the Chamber, he was the head of the criminal police rather angry with me, if you what I have just said. Well, I said to him, "Look," I say, because after all, he's my student, "you started the Patria case, which went through the prosecution, even through the courts to the Constitutional Court, through the regular courts to the Constitutional Court." His answer was, "oh, oh, the thing is out of date." So, for one of the highest police officers, the people in Patrio's case are guilty, unfortunately, but the matter is out of date. On that understanding, I'm afraid to live in a country like this because it's a different story. The Constitutional Court said, and this unitedly, 9 constitutional judges, there was no separate opinion: “Baptized was Article 28 of the Constitution, and we did not judge the other.” So they ruled that the police, the prosecution and the regular judiciary had dealt with, accused and tried people who had not committed the crime. Article 28 of the Constitution is this. It's a total abuse, from the police to the prosecution to the courts. It's only the Constitutional Court that fixed this. Of course, they'll say to the police, "we're dealing with this, we're working on the prosecution's direction." Yeah, yeah. I've told you many times that it's the other way around. The police are directing the prosecution. You know that, Minister. But we can talk about this another time because it's too extensive and too demanding a topic or a very difficult topic. However, the prosecution will say, "Yes, the police have not collected enough evidence". They will say, "we are independent" in court. But we had four people in prison for all the abuse you want. Dr. Vatovec, who is not, of course, he escapes, most of those who speak before me, and he drew the line today, said that we cite cases in a request concerning members of the SDS. We can go take a look. Vaskrsić has never been a member of the SDS, at least I don't know, Kangler was never a member of the SDS, nor do I know that he would be a member of the SDS, Mr Magajna is not a member of the SDS, Jelinčič has a client, he probably knows this, he is not our member, Mrs Bratušek is also our member, but here the case is mentioned, Jankovic is not our member either. Do you believe it isn't? He's not our member. Zalar, Fisher, Škerbec, they're not our members. Clemensche to be our member? No, it's not. There's no agent, there's no Furlan, there's no Cos, there's no Robb, there's no Gypsies, there's no Funk. These are the cases we're referring to here. He says we are trying to rehabilitate SDS representatives in our request. Do you know what a flimsy statement that is? That's a vague statement from a man with a doctor's name. I'd expect it to get a little deeper. Of course, he noticed the sale of the house. That's what he noticed. But this is our case here, in the sky, screaming. In his opinion, it is the rehabilitation of John Janša. That's not true. He doesn't need any rehabilitation. The Patria case was concluded by the Constitutional Court and does not require any rehabilitation. I would, however, agree that the President of the National Assembly, when this happened and the Constitutional Court said at the beginning of the session, “I will now address the National Assembly” and the President would go up there and apologize on behalf of all those who voted in favour of the withdrawal of the term of office. See, that would be nice. But unfortunately, the coalition couldn't do it. He says it's about rehabilitating suspects. What kind of rehabilitation does Mr Magajna need, say? He doesn't need any rehabilitation, because he's not guilty. But he needs an apology from the responsible people of the police and the prosecution, if you like, but not from the judiciary, because the judiciary has spoken. So it's not about rehabilitation. Does the Kangler we're dealing with need rehabilitation? He doesn't have to. So far, the judiciary has dropped 13 criminal charges. But he needs an apology from you, Minister, and so does the prosecution. Why? Because it was abuse, pure abuse. 20 criminal charges and most of them are from the time of Mr. Funk, which you have now rewarded as a general. And on 20 criminal charges, 13 of them were dismissed. It's not his fault. Why am I talking about abuse? I am talking about abuse because the crime police in Maribor have collected information about him in a very clear and different way, as they call it. At any time it was necessary to comply with the house order, but, look at it, Mr Žirovnik was always an on-call investigative judge. Always. What does that mean? That they were waiting, they looked at the list of who the investigating judge was. Ah, Žirovnik, let's go, he'll give the order. Because maybe some other judge wouldn't. That's why it's an abuse. It's also about concealing evidence. All the hearings and all the other stuff the police have to hand over, because you know that, the prosecution or the prosecution. No, they made copies. Unlawful copies were made to themselves, and then they shared them a little there with some prosecutors, if they could find anything else. That's why I'm talking about abuse. And the abuse was eliminated by the judiciary. It took her out. Mr. Radic didn't say anything, he didn't say anything. I think there's some lines from what he's already said to the Cossacks' judgment. It's not the agenda, it's not the satire on the radio. I'd expect him to say something about these cases, but he didn't say anything. Likewise, Mrs. Porotatova, improvements in justice. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about abuse. The number of judges. That's not what we're talking about in this request. You'd better tell us what I asked you to do. A million and a half, two years on probation. Technical reviews in Kranj, 250 euros, 3 years in prison unconditionally. Explain that to me. But you have to explain this to me because you won't be able to, try to explain it to people, to people who give more than €80 for the functioning of justice at the annual level, and to people who give less than half in Germany, and to people who give more than €80 for the functioning of justice in Scandinavia about 4 times less. Explain why the story with Mr Türk is a thousand 500 euros for a summons and why for 100 euros in the case of Fishtravec it is 5,000 euros in fines. Explain that to the people. You didn't explain it to me. Explain to the people and explain to the people about the quality of the judiciary, especially those mothers or the lady from New Town who were not present 10 days ago, this case was called for the sale of the apartment at the auction. Since the lady is without money and owes 350 euros, the court wants to sell a two-bedroom apartment and dump her on the road. Explain that to her. Explain to her that this is a just state, because she will surely ask you why Jankovic has written down 16 million. Explain it to her. Look, I'm fine. But when I told the press that I would pay 350 euros, only to keep the lady in the apartment, and the court dropped the proceedings, they called off the complaint. You have to explain to people. Explain to the visitor of my office, which he received three years ago or something like that on his head and you're talking to him about a fair trial. He was beaten by the Justice Minister's father-in-law and said to him, "You'll be in the coffin before it's in court." And that's what's happening. I invite you to come with me to the office. I invite you both to go to his house, and you explain the justice of justice. I can't explain it. And don't talk to me about justice, and I don't know what else to do if you're not there for justice. You were talking about the political account with Klemenčič. Excuse me, I'm talking about the wheel that that guy got on his head with. What's the deal with the minister? It's not a matter of discussion with the minister. In fact, the material that's before us in 90% has nothing to do with the minister. After all, the Minister has no effect on justice, on the decisions of the judiciary. We're not even talking about him here. At one point, we touch on him, where we talk about violations of laws and the reward he then received. Is this a deal with him? He broke eight laws, that's what the Court of Auditors said. But he was awarded a ministerial position. Is this a deal with him? No, Mrs. Popot, it's not an account with him, it's not. So you don't cry and get out, like you already did. That's not the point. You give me a reason to say what I'm saying. But not then to sell me something that, of course, is absolutely not true. Explain to me that it is a just state and that it is a just justice when, in the case of Kangler, he uses more than two years old ears without a problem and, in the case of Jankovic, he has the same hearings to destroy. Now tell me if this is justice. At this point, Secretary of State, ask what the D.A.'s opinion on this case is. Over 85% of severe cases where hearings are also used are used after two years. That's how it is right now. That's the D.A.'s information. If this case law, which has been applied in the case of Jankovic, has been applied, we have ended up with all the serious crime or with the judicial proceedings in which the hearings were used. I know the government doesn't agree, because I know that, I get that. We still have an authentic explanation. But, Your Honor, the Supreme Court has rushed this case. When we accept the authentic explanation next month that hearings are also allowed after two years, I suppose we will accept this because the Government agrees, we agree on this matter – what now? From now on, this will apply. This means that until now it has been considered that you can use hearings over two years of age, for which the case of Jankovic does not apply, and from now on it will be valid again. Such a situation will be after the November meeting of the National Assembly and an authentic explanation. Is that a fair trial? It's not a fair trial. I will not give up until the last second of the possibility of using this microphone, I will not give up the call to the next composition of the National Assembly after the election, because then I will be gone for this table. By my will, not by whose will. And I will not give up, I will not give up until the judiciary has established a system that will be just for all. For everything. First to last. Not by losing your house for 150 or 120 euros, but when the question is 16 million Jankovic, they write it off. That's not the kind of justice our people need. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mrs. Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I propose, Madam President, that you tell the motioner that I am not in the National Assembly today to explain why judges or courts have in some cases decided as they have decided. I can't explain it, and it's not my responsibility either. I've only given my position to the Desus Group and nothing more. So please such low-levels are not suitable for this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Applicant, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u26	Thank you very much. If that is the case, then I suggest you do not perform, Mrs Porotatova. Just like he did an SD that didn't perform. I believe that SD agrees more or less with what we wrote. This is a better option than not talking about the topics that are here before us. The topics I've been talking about are the themes we're dealing with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u27	Well, in any case, Mrs Porotat said the position of the Group of Members. You trolled her like she was in the defense of the court, the police and the prosecution, and, of course, this comment she made was quite appropriate. Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mrs Teja Ljubič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u28	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. We are once again witnessing a session where we are discussing specific cases. I think we have discussed this several times in this mandate. I believe that today's session is some kind of pre-interpellation warm-up that has been filed against the Minister of Justice and that it would like to create with this debate today some kind of impression that there is something very wrong with justice. But I don't think the proposer is the most convincing. The cases listed here are repeated today and will be heard more than once, are cases where justice or the whole system, including prosecution, is the police, where they have kneeled, where they have not done their work in the way that at least the citizens expect them to. However, we need to know that these cases have something in common. These are cases that have arisen and have taken place far before this mandate. I wonder if this is what the purpose of today's meeting is, if it is matters that have ended five years ago, whether the applicant may not have known what was wrong with the individual case, or whether it is, as I said earlier, a false creation of a state of emergency in the judiciary prior to the interpretation of the Minister of Justice. The applicant provided a number of examples in his material, covering only one explanation of the request for the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Gorenak asks us, colleague Kotnik Poropat has asked to comment on certain judgments. We do not have these judgments in this annex and, in fact, none of us can comment on them. That's why it's completely inappropriate. However, I may be able to point out a few things about what they are and what time they come from. The case of Fojkar was made in 1999 and took place until 2007. For example, Vaskrsić, selling, if I'm wrong in 2013, correct me if I made a mistake. Next, Franz Kangler, also a case that goes through a number of mandates, but still comes from previous mandates. The case of Stichec is from 2010. The case of Magajna is from 2010. Winning the 2010 Jelinčič Trinitarians. Alenka Bratušek, September 2014. The case of Patricia, we also know when it is. Otherwise, he ended up in the Constitutional Court in this mandate or then the case was outdated, but this is a case arising from the previous term of office of one of the governments. I would like to say that today this situation, or this very poor political assessment of our justice, is justified by cases that are by most very ad acta, and what is even more disturbing is that there is an alleged inequality between the first-class states, if I remember correctly, and the second-class citizens. I believe that there is such a division today, but this meeting will not resolve it, because the cases you are referring to are cases of politicians. I believe that you have given Mr Vaskrsić and Mr Fojakr only to excuse a number of other cases where we have a prosecution, a just or unjustifiable, of the politicians themselves. Franc Kangler – Mayor, Anton Štyhec – Mayor, Andrej Magajna – Member, Victory Jelinčič – Member, Alenka Bratušek – Member, case Patria – Policy itself. And don't say you want to point out some inequality, and then you just talk about politics. Because I'm sick of it. Be honest with the citizens, if you want to draw attention to irregularities in justice, give examples of citizens, not politicians. Let me give you a few more articles that I found in the media. Of all these, there are two cases of ordinary citizens, let's say. Robert Fojaker's case, I didn't hear that he'd ever be connected to politics, the fiasco of the judiciary, justice, serious accusations, then nothing. I believe that the Lord has suffered a great deal of damage through such a procedure that has not been completed. I won't speculate for any reason, though. This case has also come to a political conclusion. Even some kind of press conference during Mr Vinko Gorenak's Minister of the Interior was called. And at this conference he declared: “Can we report to the court that it did not work legally? No.” That's what you said, Mr. Gorenak. “Can we report to the prosecution that it did not work legally?” “No.” I'm not going to go into judgment on those words of yours. But today, after what I heard a little while ago, they sound very strange. Not even when you're talking about the case seven years later. The case of Zoran Vaskrsić, when you were also Minister of the Interior. There was one statement, I read it from the media, it's all available on the Internet. At the time of your assignment, you were invited to step down because of the excessive use of force in Mr Vaskrsić's and his family's activities, but you stepped into the police's defence and said that everything was legal. I don't know if you were doing the right thing at the time or not, but today your words sound very strange when you want to connect this case with the current justice minister. For example, Patricia. The case of Patrie is one of the most likely cases discussed in this House. It ended the way it ended. There's some surveillance here. If we are talking about statistics, about how many citizens trust in justice, I am sure that there may even be the same number of citizens who do not trust justice because the Patria case has even begun, such as those who are convinced that it should end with a conviction. Both may be dissatisfied with the work of the court and other bodies. But the statistics you're talking about don't say anything about why people are disappointed with justice: either because no one was convicted or because they were being tried. However, it is indicative that this procedure, one part of this story, was dealt with before a court in the Republic of Austria and that Mr Wolfgang Riedl is sitting for bribery in Slovenia. So this case is not entirely fabricated as it wants to be displayed, and it has its very real foundations. In this House, it is often wanted to show that this is some kind of fictional story, that there is nothing on it, that it is actually all made up. If we truly believe this, then we can wonder where the justice of Austria is, if someone is brought to justice for justice, then Austria, which even condemns him and puts him in prison. It's all a matter of interpretation after all. I certainly don't want to give the closure to justice by today's debate, so that such matters do not arise. These are disturbing things that affect the mistrust of all citizens. Perhaps even when it comes to policies, however, I think that if we want to justify changes in justice, a change in policy, we must do so in cases that touch the most, let's say, ordinary citizens and not dedicated politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u30	Yeah, look, manipulator one but you are. That's right. In Austria, someone has been convicted of the Patrio case, and you connect it to the Patria people know, Janša and so on. Do you know there's another Patricia? Wait! You don't know that, do you? He was convicted and got money from these sources. And you see how manipulative you are? Let's move on. There you quoted me as "that we cannot report to the prosecution and the judiciary". Give me an example! An example, which, I can answer, is not a post quote. Give me that paper, give me that press release, and I'll give you an answer. Next. I was in 2012, not 2013, as you said, but 2012 was invited to resign due to excessive use of force. Yes, please! The sob major screamed at the subject. Do you think every minister will resign if one citizen wants to resign? Where did you see that? When you're a minister, you'll be able to talk about it. Let's move on. In the case of Vaskrsić, I have seriously considered saying something to the then Prime Minister. The police are obliged by law to provide assistance in evicting I wanted to tell him that I am disgusted that the police will do something that I know is unfair to throw a man out of the house for 140 or 120 euros. [[..]] But we didn't do it, and I didn't propose it, but I was seriously thinking about it. And what did the police do? She assisted because she had to assist in the unjust decision of the judiciary. Let's move on. Look what you're saying. You were talking about how we put politics in here. Look, Funk, politics? It's not. He used to be a politician, now he's not. Rob, he used to be a politician, now he's not. Someone was never a politician, Furlan was never a politician, the Agent was not a politician. Let's move on. Fisher wasn't a politician, Škerbec was for a while, Zalar was also for a while, etc. Why do you talk about cases and mention only some and not all that are listed here? You say you don't have a verdict and you won't comment. Read the magazines, and it'll be enough. Read the media, and that'll do it. Look at what you said about Foykar being a 1999 case. That's not true. You're manipulating. It started in 1999 and ended in 2013, with my apology on behalf of the state. Don't say it's 1999. Be a little more specific. Vaskrsić is not in 2013 but in 2012. And again, you said that the Patricia case was obsolete. Yes, of course, you've ever heard of defendants complaining that they hadn't aged what they were. However, it is formally clear that Article 28 of the Constitution was violated, the courts and procedures ran for something that is not a crime. You as a lawyer should know that. Let's move on. Well, here I agree, you believe we have first and second graders. That's what you said. Congratulations on your statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Teja Ljubič has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Nice greetings to all present, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I must say that I am constantly, nicely said, fascinated by the way in which individual, particularly reverberating, media-response court cases appear, and forgive me the expression, self-proclaimed legal experts, who apparently feel called upon to comment publicly every five minutes of their time. I don't want to be misunderstood right away. I do not think that individual cases should be discussed, that they should not be commented on. After all, this is the legitimate right of each individual. I find this public or media comment to be more controversial here, especially if we are not thoroughly familiar with them or if we do not have some reliable information about them. It seems to me that we are being judged on the basis of some information coming from the media because I think we are all aware that different information can come from the media, including those that may not be fully held, which are not verified, which are distorted, misleading, etc. The material we received from the proponents lists some specific cases that I have to say that I do not know exactly what key they were chosen for and allocated to this kit. Today, I will not define these cases because I do not know them to the extent that I can discuss them in a reasoned manner. I also do not know where these particulars come from as set out in this proposal. I don't know if it's just some summary of the media releases or whether they're some kind of subjective evaluation of the applicants, it's some kind of credible information, I don't know. But I'll be honest with you. I don't think it's appropriate for you to point out certain individuals and their cases in the material with names and surnames. I'll tell you why. Look, for example, as the first example of Mr. Robert Fojker is given. I understand from this material that this was completed in 2009. Mr. Gorenak, you said that in 2013, but still. After all these years now you're dragging this case out again, here you're mediaically exposing it. I don't know if I would like to take Mr Fojaker's place, but I doubt that I would care if, after a few years, I have been mentioned again and exposed in the media to the debate on my case. I think these people who have gone through such procedures want peace in the first place. That it is not misunderstood, I do not defend justice, and I believe that certain improvements or movements are necessary in the judiciary. However, I would like not to discuss this in the way we are discussing today by highlighting certain cases, but to discuss them differently, more professionally and in an argumentative manner, which I often miss in the National Assembly. Again and again, I also hear that the judiciary must be effective, that the procedures are too long, that people do not trust the judiciary and so on and so forth. Yes, judicial or judicial proceedings must be primarily fair and only then everything else. But here we run into the question of what righteousness is, what fair trial is, what fair justice is. I strongly doubt that we could find a single answer that everyone could agree with. In this case it is one of those questions that a person can never find a definitive answer to, he can only try to ask better. The fact is, a court or judge can never make a decision that everyone would agree on, and that would be the one and only best decision. If nothing else, at least that party who has lost it will disagree with a court decision. This party will always say that the judgment was not justified, that it is not fair, that it is irregular and so on. Humans are not robots, and we do not all think in the same way and make the same decisions. A subjectively best solution or decision taken under certain given circumstances and at a given time is not necessarily the best solution or decision at the same time. Undoubtedly, changes in the system are needed. However, I believe that changes in people are also needed. Allow me to conclude this debate with the words of our legal philosopher, theorist and diplomat who once said, quote: “We will not create, we will not share, and we will not find justice if there is no justice in us.” End of quote. I think these words are still quite relevant these days. I wish a lot of people would remember them more than once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I would only respond when you pointed out that some of the cases had been withdrawn and made public that there had been agreement. Finally, we can read about these cases in the media. If you type these cases, you will also get a lot of articles on this subject, except for the case of Vaskrisić, which is the judgment of the European Court of Justice, the ECHR and, as such, the judgment is public. When you say that we may abuse people and that this is not the way we work, I would like to say that the Ombudsman also points out in her annual reports that there are substantial misjudgments, which are also poorly reasoned. That's the kind of judgment that falls. Such judgments were the ones we are talking about today. And what's interesting is that every judgment like that is written by a man with a name and a surname. What happens when such a judgment falls? I think the cost of such a judgment is borne by all taxpayers. And that's not right. Because abroad knows and recognizes the responsibility of a judge for a bad judgment that has wronged an individual. But guilt, we all know, is severe and in heaven screaming for every single one of us, and it is hard to fix. Given that the highest role in all appointments, which judges will now and in the future judge us, the Council of Justice, which we have already discussed in the National Assembly, has much to say that it is necessary to change the composition of the Council of Justice if we are to change anything in this country even within the framework of justice. Until recently, the Council of Justice did not have any legal criteria for the selection of a candidate for a judge appointed by him, which we changed a year or two ago. And these judgments, in fact, some, I believe that even today they are from the past, when they actually rewarded themselves. The Council of Justice was actually working against all of this. We know what he called and proposed to the judge, past the line, without criteria, without experience, and we have rejected her as a first instance in the National Assembly. But there's something I'd like to point out when I have a chance. That every judgment must be based on the Constitution and the law. Thus, legal certainty can be guaranteed to citizens. If it is not based on the Constitution and the law, we cannot say that citizens have some legal certainty. What really worries me is what is happening now is that they are starting to practice some sort of judicial practice. Sometimes, many times, citizens too have this feeling, for individual cases, for individual people. This once again gives a sense of a two-tier rule of law, a country for one another and a country for the other. But we all have to work here, and I am taking recommendations where it is stated which cases were risky, as a reminder that this will no longer occur in the future. And I don't take it that we've abused some of them, as you may have felt. This is no abuse because they want to expose the case themselves. I, too, could point out a number of examples from the parliamentary group when people who receive incomprehensible, unfounded judgments come forward, from which it is not possible to understand what was the legal basis for their decision. Judgments, case-laws that are not familiar to citizens and are not a formal source and often even contrary to the law are cited. I think it's problematic and creating people's confidence in justice. Any doubt must be resolved. If we have judgments based on the constitution and the law, then we have judgments that can't actually fall anywhere else on any higher levels. But if we don't, then we do. That is why I would like to see judges based on this in the future work of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u35	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go, Mrs. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u36	Thank you very much. One more word for it. Dear colleague Dimic, I'm not going to replicate anything like this, but in my debate, I never said you used these people. I didn't understand anywhere from this material that these people agreed that you were here, and that we're here to discuss them. So please don't turn your back on my words, because I never said that. If these people agree, I don't see any problems. But it would be nice if that came from this material, or if we had said that before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Very briefly, there will be no mistake in not calling back. All those listed under the Roman number one in the text were in agreement. Under Roman number one, minus Mr Vaskrsić, because there the ECHR judgment is the basis. By the way, look, I have a lovely duty. Mr Robert Fojkar, who has been mentioned, says: “Keep going, please, once again, with my permission, who does not want to hear the pigs that the prosecutor has touched me, continue and, if anyone is not clear, read this SMS.” Anything else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. In the introduction, the Secretary of State said something like this: “At the Ministry or Government, we believe that the area of detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary is not shocking or alarming.” That's what she said. My opinion, as well as the examples listed above, and the many other cases that I will present today show not only that the situation is alarming and shocking. We have a justice system that is unjust, which is not just, and we have a system, I speak entirely, from persecution, detection and so on, where big pigs, pigs, respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u41	I'm asking you nicely if it's tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u42	Pigs.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u43	One more kind expression.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u44	And I'll tell you why. And please don't stop me, President. A billion euro of laundered money went through this country. A billion euros, and you're saying it's not bullshit. There's more to it than bullshit.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u45	I didn't say that. I was just asking for a better expression if you could.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u46	I am talking about this billions of euros being washed away for criminal acts, for terrorism. And what has our system been doing all this time? On the one hand, in the National Assembly, we have heard many times about the need to do something about the detection of banking crime. This has been discussed many times since the citizens of 2013 restored this system. But what was really going on? Take a look at this Farrokh case, once again, and let me remind you of what was found by the investigative commission, which was established only because the prosecution and the judicial branch of the authorities in this country are not functioning. She's discovered everything you're supposed to discover. Or she found out what they were hiding under your carpet. On the question of the investigative commission to the police whether the police made a report under the law for the prosecution in accordance with the law, the answer was: “No, there has never been such a document.” So it's the police shit. The fact that the matter is even a little bit more difficult is that the prosecution just didn't crash, and it could. While Mr. Harry Furlan, who was in another position with the police earlier, then came to the prosecution, but he knew nothing about this case. Interesting! Of course, the case didn't come to court. But what's our situation today? Those who knew about this, then president of the KPK, today, the Minister of Justice, who on the one hand says that with our judicial system, in fact, everything is O.K. and in the best order, and that it is not so worrying, he knew about these matters. But he didn't give them formally and officially. And we're talking about a billion euros of laundered money. It was said that if the whistleblowers gave some information and then gave it informally or not, the Secretary of State today, you gave it informally. [[..]] But interestingly, this KPK resigned and even wrote in a statement of resignation that they do, because some things in this country are not solvable and cannot be solved. And I think they also mentioned the situation in the area of banks. But on the other hand, the documentation was literally hidden by the same people. And then you're wondering why I'm using a heavy term piggyback. But all of this happened in the days of the Pahor government, during the time of the SD government, which did not even have a position today. I understand why she didn't have it. He can't have it because they're guilty of this kind of shit. And today, Mr President is running for president of the country without a problem, and he says that what he received in this report did not understand that it was so alarming or did not seem necessary for him to ask where we were in this area. And that the matter is so much more depraved, let me say that the president of this investigative commission, who, along with the other members, is doing a really hard job, would not even hope for that, would be threatened by a member of the SD. Threat! The police say she won't react at all. That's your fair justice! That's right. We have to start with ourselves. Only I don't see us starting with ourselves, respectable colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps you, Mrs Teja, on behalf of your parliamentary group, would apologize to your fellow Member for taking away his mandate. Let's start with ourselves. Did I tell you — perhaps you apologized on behalf of the parliamentary group? You didn't. So don't talk about starting with yourself. Take care of it. Of course not. Today, we have heard another abuse that you want to reopen the Patria case or give some indication again that it was not all the way it was supposed to be. Let me at least remind you when the letter of intent was signed. At the time of Robb's government, not the government of Janez Janša. And this was a political account. An exclusive political account that then one party could eventually come into power after Milan Kučan’s great stroke when someone imagined it. I would still understand, you're quite a new client, and everything would be fine if you didn't defend these things if you didn't defend the minister who violated the law, the constitution and so on. Then I'd still believe you don't have dirty hands with it. Now I can't say that. 'SSD is, of course, guilty here in this matter. Until some authorities in this country move and we get to the culprits and the responsible ones, not like now, because they should be the same because they are doing those functions today because they should actually be monitoring themselves, there will be no bread or epilogue as it should be, until then we can say that in the field of justice, in the field of prosecution and detection, there will be no pigs. And it will be until we start cleaning things up. Apparently, some people don't mean to, and they don't want to. That is why the party in power at the time is still silent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, let Mr. Jan Mahnic prepare himself. Here you go, mag. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I will use the same words I used two years ago, and I welcome those who are not present, especially because today's topic is not so uniform. The current presence of Members, when I look after the National Assembly, leads me to about the same composition of those who were or who were present when we talked about a 5-billion-dollar hole, persecution of economic crime, financial crime and so on. Personally, I believe that this is also about a message of what some Members think about these matters and we are of the view that it is probably finally after 26 years that the time has come for us to talk about certain matters in the temple of democracy, particularly in the sense that perhaps the time has come for certain changes. Before I go to the debate, I will also allow myself to comment, as on the proposaler's side, to comment a little on those before them. Here I must admit that I strongly advocate the view that I am a legitimate Member of this State Assembly, because there is often talk about these legitimate elections and so on. For the last time in this plenary session, with a similar content, I explained a little why I stand in the position that I am a legitimate Member of this National Assembly. Those words, when spoken, I believe in well-intentioned, new faces, is my question – what about the old faces? I think we could talk about this a lot. Let me focus on the very content of today's debate, but I would like to mention the words spoken, and I hope that I will give at least the words of the President of the Supreme Court, who has been on the parental committees these days. In his debate he made it very clear: “Yes, you know, because the court and the judges decide on the basis of the laws you adopt in the National Assembly”. I have remembered this and I also point out this now because almost three years ago, the same words were raised by a well-known state prosecutor. I'm not gonna do a name commercial, but I think we all know who put it out there. Nevertheless, I must mention in this regard that of these competent persons in the field of justice and law enforcement, I am missing from their activities to eliminate those anomalies in the existing existing legislation, whether criminal or whatever, that could indeed be a more effective prosecution of the perpetrators who have caused such or otherwise a 5-billion-dollar hole,.economic crime, a number of rebuttal cases that are sometimes in the direction of a genuine mockery of the rule of law system. Not to mention, as I mentioned several times before, the abolition of legal voids. If I move on to today's agenda. I am in the position that the fundamental question for all of us Members of this National Assembly, and in particular the members of the Committee on Justice, is to say that the Committee on Justice, what is our activity in relation to the decision on individual matters, is also the specific theme of today's agenda item, namely, to put in place position A or B. If I am in position A, or if we follow Members of the opinion of their parliamentary groups to whom we belong, decisions that are more or less political, and if I am very specific, this means that almost on the coalition's side the position is that we are aware that in some ways it is not all the same as it should be, but we will slowly address this with some changes and leave the processes almost the same as they are. There have been weaknesses, there will be weaknesses, some judges decide that, it is the independence of the court. And the caravan's moving on. Here is my question, where is the role of the Member of Parliament? And B, do we somehow put ourselves in the position that we are representatives of citizens, voters, representatives of the legislative branch of government, and we are critical of these so-called so-called, if we can say, deviations in detection procedures, prosecutions as well as in the judicial branches of government, which are bound and must act in accordance with the legislation which has been adopted and which we are also adopting. I must admit that I belong more to this other group, it is said B, because I believe that Members must be critical in certain cases, for which I myself, which I have often, and also very clearly say today, of the milky relationship, especially of the law enforcement authorities as well as of the judiciary. Unfortunately, most decisions are made to the detriment of taxpayers. And let us not go blind, even at the mid-morning meeting of the parental committee, I have raised one question, which is not a matter of individual cases that are now emerging in the debate. If I am very specific, we also spoke in the National Assembly and the question of will was raised. It's not a matter of ten wills, but it's a number of thousands, and the question is, if not anymore. A thousand wills that citizens in good faith trust in an institution such as the court trust in the store. And look at the fraction of it when there are legacy procedures, it is found that there are no such wills. I'm not going to let go of what that means to individuals, because I think it's painful enough to think about it. We also touched upon a case of responsibility in the National Assembly. We all know that the National Assembly is now active, we have four parliamentary investigative commissions set up. I must admit that I belong to that group of Members and Members, who are very interested in following up on the findings of these committees. Personally, as a new face, I am very interested in what political responsibility will be. If it is. As far as material criminal liability is concerned, I wouldn't lose my word, court case. Today's proposal, which is before us, with individual cases, I consider as a warning to cases that are not in honour of the judiciary. And I don't see anything wrong with that. If I finish this piece somehow, I will repeat what I have already mentioned in the introduction. Finally, after 26 years, we can talk in the National Assembly in the hope that the responsibility is not only a letter on paper written in law or in any sub-law, but that this institution of responsibility can literally be passed on to individuals who have had some influence, power, responsibility and decision in the past. From this point of view, I welcome these activities very much, and they may even be too few. But I can't get past the next time we touch responsibility. Whether we may wonder how that responsibility must have been felt by those who have been in lengthy judicial proceedings, even if a certain penalty has been passed, to prove that the proceedings and convictions have been wronged. To speak or be in the position that there is, therefore, some compensation, and in individual cases, that a political official, in this case the referential minister, apologises on behalf of the State, I think it is wrong that we, in practice, wave our left hand, if you do, because this is arranged. I think it's a very informative thinking of those who have experienced this, because some satisfaction is not just a matter of money and compensation. So that the cases relating to natural persons cannot be compared with some administrative procedures, inspections and the like, relating to real estate. I therefore believe that particular attention and sensitivity should be given to these procedures. I must admit that, as far as the proposal is concerned, I am somewhat critical of the content itself. I will also try to substantiate in some way, even though there may be some further criticism. You know, when you do, it's also right that you have a slightly different view. The proposal before us, which was also on the parental committee, I assess and guides me to some reality, namely, that if I may not say a little too harshly, a slight form of political accounting with persons who in the past had a function in which they simply decided, conducted certain procedures or had any influence. Why do I allow myself to put this thesis on these materials first? If the proponent really had the right one, if I could say so, the broad purpose of these irregularities, which in some way occur in every society, because we cannot say that it is only with us, would certainly not only mention in this material the physical persons that I have somehow characterized before, but would certainly, at least I would expect, also mention cases that have been mass and caused not only health consequences to citizens and citizens, but also material ones. I'm just going to give you a few examples that happened in not so long history or a few years ago. If I start right now, the Orion case and the Zbilsky grove. It's a matter of the judiciary. Further notary certification of various contracts. Typical abuse. What the judiciary is going to do is very soon to come into a massive situation, and I think that all actors are going to put this aside in one way or another, namely, the disappearances of companies that have had any impact on the ownership of these companies. As I mentioned before, the loss of will, especially the so-called custody of the court. Years ago, as we recall, an affair in court, connecting executive judges and bankruptcy administrators in Ljubljana. All this stuff's going somewhere. And if I give another example of what I hope to say, the total abuse of the Earth Debt Institute. Look, the system's moving on. However, what has particularly encouraged me is one example, although our Member is not present at this time, when you have given me in these proposals a rather insignificant example concerning her recruitment or the European Commissioner's seat. From my point of view, this is a completely irrelevant case in this matter. However, it is important to me that such materials do not expose what is essential to taxpayers. Why it was privatized or supported in that period, I apologize for supporting private banks – A Bank, Pro Bank, Factor Banka. What does that mean? Do we forget certain things or do we not want to expose them? The result is, say-say, but I hope I'm not going to make a big mistake, a billion. The consequences are still through DUTB today because we know what the result of the merger of Pro and Factor Bank means. If it is a matter of interest, I have really missed this material, and I still miss those cases from the courts that have truly mass and have consequences for citizens today. My key focus in these matters is the pursuit or what I have mentioned, the milk chase and the milky activity of law enforcement authorities and the courts in the pursuit of economic crime, particularly financial crime. And here's where I'd like to say the following. If the law enforcement authorities, not the courts, in this case the law enforcement authorities had a serious intention to step on the fingers of those who had allowed individuals or interest groups to be subject to a 5 billion or more State property damage on the basis of the institute to file claims against evidence. I can't even understand it. Obviously, the reasons are completely different to looking for legal voids, not to talk about education, training and perhaps the need to change the judiciary and so on. Certain things have now been arranged enough to be serious enough to allow those who have cooperated in one way or another to be persecuted more specifically. I cannot understand that we have a very clear record in criminal law that the signs of a crime are the loss of business documents and the abuse of the position. And why do law enforcement authorities torture themselves and prove to the court all such procedures? Let the one who does this be tortured and prove that he has not abused the situation. So much for that. Just for the end. I welcome these proposals for discussion, and I hope that we will meet again at the end of our term of office on the subject of responsibility and that there will also be some epilogue in court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u49	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u50	Very briefly. We don't have credible information what Mrs. Ljubič said. As I said, all of this is based on specific cases of judgments of the courts or other documents. Let's move on. Vice President Hainz, who went straight down, would be nice if you could answer me now if you give him a chance. He says that we should not use the word piggy, so that we can give a more kind expression, and I ask for any suggestions on what would be a more kind term. It's human, it's called bullshit, and it's safe. If there's a better term, it'd be nice. The debate ahead of me is a debate that a person would somehow like. Also by the coalition members. Look, it's been said, let's draw attention to the real cases. I agree. It was said, however, that some other cases should be dealt with, such as Orion, notary contracts, deletions of economic associations, wills, bankruptcys, land books, support of those three banks, economic and financial crime. Just a comment. I don't think there's a topic you've listed that you wouldn't have discussed in previous mandates. We have already discussed these issues in previous mandates, and I think this is also in some way useful for any further discussion if Mr Zorčič does not then say that we have 10 years of experience. You have to deal with this on your own. Besides, I welcome this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u51	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Secretary of State, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me first quote the words that were spoken at the October or September regular session by a person who is particularly fond of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and this is Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary at the Justice Ministry, when he said, all these debates that you have here and that cast a bad light on the law enforcement authorities, at the time he also had in mind the PKK, deepening the mistrust of citizens and citizens in this institution. Perhaps, Mr Stare, he would probably come forward later and feel the same way about this debate, but I cannot agree with this on my own. Nothing sheds a bad light on the law enforcement authorities, on the bodies that we are dealing with and on the decisions of these bodies that we are discussing at this meeting. In order to improve their functioning, we propose conclusions which you have unfortunately rejected on the Committee or the recommendations we have proposed. Their operation is one that casts a bad light. To warn you about these cases is not an additional throw of a bad light, but a warning in terms of improving things. The Slovenian Democratic Party has already recalled this whole mandate. Earlier, Member Dušan Verbič, who I also call the voice of reason within the SMC, and I very much appreciate him, also mentioned Orion's wills. Mr Gorenak said that we have also talked about this in previous mandates. Even in this mandate, when we proposed recommendations regarding the courts and the prosecutions, we mentioned, in the text we proposed and to be discussed at the meetings, that Orion was not saying that we had a special session and recommendations on the basis of the established — deliberately, unintentionally — will. What if I go on a case-by-case basis? Yes, Mr Gorenak, as Minister of the Interior, apologized to Mr Robert Fojkar for the 14-year-old upper, from 1999 to 2013. Even though Robert Fojkar was never found guilty, he was always forgiven, found innocent, but Prosecutor Branka Owen repeatedly filed charges against him. Today, he is the leader of the State Attorney's Office in Nova Gorica. Even though he was found to be innocent, he was harmed. We know what crime he was accused of — one of the biggest crimes that can happen to a young man. The prosecutor has never been called to account as no judge is called to account and citizens have a legitimate mistrust in Slovenian justice, in the Slovenian judiciary. Not because of the meetings and the words we have when we assess the work of these bodies, Mr Darko Stare, but because of decisions and work or better said non-action in certain cases of Slovenian justice, which has not improved even under your government and your leadership. Recently, Mr Andrej Magajna was on the balcony. On the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, we asked and highlighted his case when he was accused of transferring a picture of an unknown girl dressed in pants showing naked breasts to his computer. Where are the discs that were seized by the police at the time? They're lost. And you won't believe it. Nobody answered. No one does to Mr Magajna, as Mr Gorenak did in the case of Mr Fojker. He didn't apologize. But the damage was caused by his name. The damage was caused. Although you are forgiven, there are still people who say, yes, this is this pedophile, thanks to the Slovenian police or in the case of Mr Fojakr thanks to the Slovenian prosecution. Apologize to that minimum. No excuse or financial means any damage caused to people, especially in such cases of crime. But you don't care, you don't care, you say that warning on such cases is throwing bad lights at justice, and that's why citizens don't trust justice. Let's move on. If Mr Magajna has enough disk to have a lady with her pants on, but she doesn't have a bra on, we have an example of a gentleman who obviously had a lady in one of his rooms without a bruise or a pair of pants in exchange for making a job for her somewhere in Ljubljana's pharmacy. That's not gonna happen. Hearings are simply being rejected to give him 300 million euros for his city hall. This is what the government of Mir Cerar is likely to do in return for peace in some of the future elections. And nothing happens to him. But it's interesting why nothing happens to him. Because this Mr. Zoran Jankovic in one of the interviews, now I don't know if he was on Croatian or was on Serbian television, he says when the journalist asks him, "Do you ever fear that you will be convicted of ever having to answer for anything?" He said, “No, I am not afraid, because I am against John Janša.” And to be against Janez Janša, ladies and gentlemen, this is the only criterion and only criterion for Slovenian justice that you are untouchable. Again we had the case a few days ago, which woke up a lot of dust, unfortunately not in the dominant media, when Crnkovic is, I think that if I have the right data, employed by the Puconci municipality, his father was the former chief financial chief of Pomursky Pharmacy, threatening the parents of my Member, your fellow Member, Dr. Anžet Logar. Today, I see another beautiful selfi of him and current President Borut Pahor, who is recommiting for his term of office. Interesting. Mr. Logar quotes his tweet and asks the police what will happen. After a few hours, the police replied that nothing would happen, that he could report anything, but that they would not initiate the procedure. It's interesting when someone writes on Twitter whether there will be a protest before the Spanish embassy about Catalonia, and then the police come home and visit this journalist. Mr. Old, I'm asking you, am I throwing a bad light on the police because I said that in Parliament, is the police throwing a bad light on themselves because it does? What's your opinion? Is it my fault that it is a bad situation or that it is low trust in these organs or organs themselves because they do what they do? And once again, nothing happens to the first-class consecrated. Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister for the period 2012-2013, submitted the report on the bank hole to the Attorney-General's Office. What happened? In Slovenia today, we do not have a person to answer that a multibillion-billion-dollar recovery of the bank hole was needed. Despite the fact that we have commissions that have already investigated this here in Parliament, they are now exploring, despite the fact that former Prime Minister Janez Janša sent this. I'm asking you what happened, Mr. Stare, you're there on justice. Do you have any information as to how the prosecution dealt with it, and what happened when the Prime Minister sent a report on the bank hole to the Attorney General's Office? What action did this take? I know how it worked, but I want to hear it from your mouth. And it doesn't help you to make any laws. Here it is worth mentioning the Roman historian Tacitus, who said: “The more the country is broken, the more many laws are needed.” It is no wonder that Slovenia has 20 000 laws and regulations, because it is obviously very corrupt for a certain part of its citizens, and here we have highlighted which. It was obvious that we were exposing politics. Mr Gorenak said it was politics, it was former politicians, it was also those who were not in politics. There's still a lot of these cases. Members of Parliament receive daily e-mails in which citizens and citizens write to us and remind us of the injustices that occur in justice. But nothing improves. You have never adopted one of our recommendations on the state of the Slovenian judiciary in this mandate. Obviously, such meetings will still be necessary until the situation improves. However, despite some bright exceptions, as I have pointed out before my colleague Dusan, there is evidence that in Slovenia there are truly first-class citizens, protected by the police and especially by Slovenian justice, and second-rate citizens, to whom they take the house for a few ten euros. This is one of the louder cases that I don't list everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u53	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Janez Janša. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Madam Minister, other representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. If I look through the prism of today's functioning of the judiciary, I see very clearly that Slovenia is a country where there are two lists. One for ordinary mortals, for whom consistent respect for laws is required if they are infringed, and so the rule of law should also work. Unfortunately, we have another list of people, some of whom have already been mentioned in the debate today also by our parliamentary group, who are protected, who are in violation of Slovenian legislation, but whose judicial branch of power looks through their fingers. And that is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that is the problem of the rule of law, the rule of law of Slovenia. 26 years ago, we didn't want that country. It is perfectly normal for the Eurobarometer to note that only 16% of Slovenian citizens and citizens trust the judiciary and 84% of citizens who pay taxes and so on do not trust the judiciary. That's a big problem. As long as we don't solve this, yes, even here or above all here, in this house, in the laws of the branch of power, we're in bad shape. On the other hand, when it comes to our case, yes, perhaps even international, then we all swear on the rule of law, international law, domestic law, European law and I do not know what else. Duplicity. For the record, I don't intend to criticize this government and this coalition right now. To this end, the left - centred governments, or left - centred coalitions, have mainly led to this situation, including this state of spirit that we have today, to these two lists. And every citizen here knows exactly where he is. Is he on those who respect him trying to respect Slovenian legislation? When it occurs consciously or unconsciously to him that he is in violation of any law, that he is then sanctioned, he shall perform that sanction, pay the fine or whatever, what I say is right. On the other hand, there are those who repeat violations. Not only do they commit violations once, they repeat violations, and their sin is overlooked. I read several columns of a very well-known Slovenian professor of European law at the Faculty of State and European Studies. He is very critical of the Slovenian judiciary. What I'm about to continue is more or less his thoughts. Why do I keep going? Because unfortunately, I have to agree with them and they're very hard. He says the judges fell on their heads, literally. Right there in Portorož, you know why Portorož, because there's a judge sitting there. We know why a judge can be proud. Because she sewed someone up. But it's past the law. And I'm sorry that we're talking about cases, because some of you are telling us that we've listed a few examples here in this paper. Yeah, how am I supposed to do that? How am I supposed to do that? We can't just talk in general. You say sometimes, say the case, say the numbers and so on. And the cases are here in the works. Not far from Portorož is the second contractor of the judicial branch of power, the alleged blacksmith. What happened to my cousin Daret Küzmich? I'm not criticizing this government. This country threw him on the road, brutally threw him on the road. This scene was worse than you usually don't toss animals on the road. At least you take care of the animal, food and so on. He's homeless today. He's walking around in parliamentary groups asking for help. And he wasn't the owner, but he was thrown out. Minister of the former government, Minister of Infrastructure, has promised to help him. A lot of people here, even between us, you promised to help him. He's homeless all of a sudden. They broke his house, or he was not the owner, but he maintained a house in Bohinj for 30 years, hosting politicians from the left political hemisphere. Now no one knows him, so at least someone would throw a coin into his hat. Let's move on. As a judge in peace, he excludes his wife from court proceedings, which she represents in court, while acting as the general secretary of the Government, all Slovenian judges. It excludes all Slovenian judges. Once again, the third is given a term of office, although it goes to foreign lucrative, read profitable, transactions. The fourth judge judges his direct colleague instead of excommunicating himself. Fifth wave with the Yugoslav flag. Six matches of current policy supporters with North Koreans. The President of the Supreme Court once personally violated the constitutional right to an impartial trial. His successor has no legitimacy as a result of the conduct of a paper body called the Council of Justice. And all of this happens in rooms that, after the equipment, correspond to the wood industry of Lithium from the 1980s. They stop constitutional judges at the door, and the Vice-President of the Supreme Court agrees to live with a colleague in different worlds, even though they work in the same court. And the result, I repeat, after the results of the Eurobarometer, is only 16% of Slovenians trust the judiciary. It's the European bottom. It's the European bottom. What are we gonna do? I would like to believe and greatly appreciate my colleague Verbic, let's do it together if it is even possible to do something by the end of the term of office. This debate is useful. We have to come with solutions. As the opposition, we have made quite a suggestion, this right-wing bloc of the opposition, if I may say or propose this meeting today and these recommendations, for which I am sorry, I do not understand why you have rejected them on the committee. What is so problematic about asking the government to make a report to do some analysis to prepare solutions? What is blasphemous about these recommendations? I really don't understand. I really don't understand. I'd be kind of calmed down if these recommendations were rejected by the coalition and came up with their recommendations. But not to make a deal in ten seconds and say yes, of course, we'll say no. There is something else missing in this country, all 26 years old, and also in the judicial branch of power: personal responsibility. Obviously, we haven't taken this lesson in this country yet. Personal responsibility. Responsibility has a name and a surname. We still live in a world from the past when collective responsibility was under way. No collective responsibility! It's personal, with a name and surname. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that a person who assumes a high function must be a person who has moral integrity, then there is probably no doubt. In countries with advanced democracy, this is perfectly self-evident. And as soon as there is any suspicion, I stress, only suspicion of certain irregularities, just irregularities, not illegality, which such an official would have committed, follows an immediate withdrawal from this function. Until we take this lesson, until then it won't be good in this country, because the other part or, if you want, the first part of the list will not feel good. When we were in the government at the end of 2012, at the top of the economy in Brdo pri Kranj, about 500 directors, most of our ministers, which is a large part of the Members, placed 4 demands in front of us, before the executive and legislative branch of government. I have to admit, I forgot second, third and fourth, but I remembered my first request. And what was that request, how did it sound? It reads: the rule of law. That's what the economy asked of us at the time. We're five years late today. Whenever I talk to representatives of the economy, the Chambers, which are a representative organisation of the economy, always repeat this. So in this area, we haven't done anything in five years. It's a state of law. Man would expect then, in 2012, the release of credits for investments and so on or expect the economy to say, please, we demand lower taxes. He put the rule of law first. In fact, I increasingly understand what the rule of law means, in terms of the protection of an investor, either domestic or foreign, both must be treated equally in this country, both domestic and foreign investors must be on one list, only one. Not one on one, the other on the other on the other. I am very sorry, and today, despite the fact that some of us have been to one meeting and we have finally been pleased to leave the room with the agreement reached on the conclusions, this meeting of the National Assembly will make this day and the next. I cannot understand why there is not so much will, so much political will to make these recommendations, but if not just the one that the coalition is supposed to propose, it is only accepted. Now everything seems to be fine in the justice system. . We have proposed a law to make a special court dealing with bankers, which we all understand now, with banking crime. Also in the field of prosecution. In the first reading I was very happy, the marriage went on, then on the mother's working body for the hair, one voice ran out, or one against it was too. But there's still time. We will vote in October on the decision or two conclusions, on our two proposals for laws that the law is not suitable for further consideration, and I hope that the decisions will not be adopted. There's still time. This debate should also give us the idea that we should motivate us to do something in the field of legislation, because it is our job to improve the judiciary, to remove two lists, to have only one list, on which we will all be citizens. In other words, the law will apply to everyone. Now we have dedicated, those who have a lot of money and can buy their own right. And that's not right. As long as this is the case, Slovenia will not be a rule of law. And the Eurobarometer and other barometers will continue to measure the low confidence of citizens and citizens of this country in the judiciary. Here I must say that I am ashamed when we are in the field of the judiciary or, more precisely, with regard to confidence in the judiciary at the European bottom, we are at the European bottom. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u55	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Prepare Mr Janez Janša and Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Respected and respected Slovenian public, citizens and citizens! The purpose of my debate today is to talk mainly about the immune system of Slovenian society. When the immune system in an individual falls, we usually know that we have been hit by a disease. When this immune system is permanently damaged, there are more in-depth diseases, we also say autoimmune, chronic diseases and the matter passes into chronic form. When we talk about the immune system of a society, this means that all three branches of government, the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government, must follow. We are talking about the principles of this procedure in the framework of the judiciary, where we are talking mostly about rebuttal procedures, in particular criminal law. We talk most of the time about the principle of depth pro reo, which means in doubt for the benefit of the accused. We are talking about principles where we are talking about the equality of weapons and also about the impartiality of the courts, judges and prosecutors. The most famous document concerning the impartiality of judges and prosecutors is a declaration called the Bordeaux Declaration. This is a 2009 document, which, in its 76 articles and thesis on the impartiality of judges and prosecutors, was as powerful as Martin Luther King's strong thesis when he literally nailed his thesis to the door of one of the Catholic churches. They talk about the appearance of bias and impartiality of judges and prosecutors. It is also the Consultative Council of European Prosecutors, which was then addressed to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. When we are talking about the immune system we are also talking about judges, we are talking about the functioning, the absence of judges in Slovenian modern society at the time of the constitution of the Slovenian state. At that time, the father of Slovenian statehood, Dr. Jože Pučnik, drafted an amendment that was most likely the most famous amendment and amendment, which was most frequently violated in Slovenian modern society. This was an amendment to Article 101 of the Law on Judicial Service, which prohibited work, i.e. the arrival of those judges who severely violated human rights to Slovenian courts, to the courts of the emerging Slovenian state. Those cases that you are talking about today, which you were talking about, respected colleagues and colleagues, are talking about this and the issue of the operation of these judges. how they came through Article 101 of the Judicial Service Act, how they could have avoided amendments to this Article and how they could have come to the courts of the Slovenian emerging countries. The failure of the judicial system shall commence at the time of the arrival of these judges. More than once, when I am in Germany, in Austria, when we talk about these things, I am thrown away as an example of the former totalitarian German democratic, that is, the Eastern German states, where I am told the already known facts that you know. Every judge over 50 years old who worked in the NDR was no longer a judge. All the junior judges went under the special supervision of Western German judges, and no professor at the law school in East Germany kept this service. All were retired or retired or transferred to other jobs in any way. Today, former Stasi members cannot be in Germany or presidents of any sports society, let alone be in politics, in the National Assembly, in government or to run certain state-owned companies. All of this happened in the failed transition of the Slovenian state. One part of the failed transition is also the failed transition of the Slovenian judicial system. It starts with both or at least one law school, where it still has a symbolic cabinet and symbolically comes Dr. Ljubo Bavcon, the famous author of Slovenian law, we can say, totalitarian criminal law. This man still maintains the status of alpha and omega criminal law in the Republic of Slovenia. As you mentioned today, it's no problem for Patrie as such. The problem for Patrie, as such, is that the case has been initiated by the wife of a former member of the State Security Service, who has filed an indictment, not because the prosecution, as you know, has to stop the so-called measurement before the District Court, or whether this indictment has to endure or not. Therefore, the indictment can be brought through, as well as the so-called reduced criminal procedure, before the District Court. The second case is an unknown matter for the public, the opinion of international young lawyers from the top law schools in the world. I will not repeat the words of Dr. Klemen Jaklič, the current constitutional judge, but I will repeat the words always and ever, Dr. Vlad Perju, a regular professor at Boston College. When he spoke of the Bordeaux Declaration, he also compared it to Patria and announced some violations. Infringements are important because they are also important for further procedures, in particular with regard to Article 36 of the Bordeaux Declaration, which speaks of the appearance of bias. I'll put her on, see if anyone can find her. Article 36 of the Bordeaux Declaration, “State prosecutors and judges must act and act in such a way that it is not possible to question their objectivity, impartiality. In the performance of their duties, judges and state prosecutors must be independent and must also be independent of each other and maintain the appearance of impartiality." Vlad Peru also spoke about the 40th Article of the Bordeaux Declaration. Article 40 of the Bordeaux Declaration states: “Judges and prosecutors must refrain from any conduct or conduct that could undermine confidence in their independence and impartiality. The matters before them must be examined in due and reasonable time and objectively impartially.” He then referred to Article 53 in this legal opinion. These prosecutorial powers mean modernisation, socialisation. He was talking about Article 69, which seems very important to me. “In a democratic society it is very important that the court in public raises confidence, the public is one of the basic ways of maintaining trust in the courts.” My colleague Horvat spoke earlier about maintaining confidence in the public. As you know, most cases come up with journalists before they're engaged to those who are in any kind of procedure. It is also a story of so-called independent Slovenian journalism and certain judges and prosecutors in some cases. The second case, which I find extremely important, is an example of our Styria icon by Mr. Franz Kangler. It is not only about what has been breached, but it seems important to me to point out that even in his case, even Dr. Cyril Ribičič, this is your lawyer or the supreme constitutional lawyer whom you yourself have invited in this mandate to the so-called independent group of legal experts who has prepared an opinion for Mr Janša to take away his mandate. If you do not believe the Slovenian Democratic Party, if you do not believe the opposition, that is, your colleagues in Novi Slovenija, then you also believe in Mr Ribičič. Mr Ribičič quoted a number of rebuttal cases, talking about the systemic problem of the Slovenian judicial system. It began with the first ECHR decision concerning Rehbock, where it refers to police violence. Then we are talking about Mother's case, we are talking about Lukend's case, we are talking about miners, we are talking about Mr Lukenda, where even in the case of the European Court of Human Rights, there is a strong likelihood that everyone who comes before Slovenian courts will be violated by human rights and fundamental freedoms. So we're talking about a systemic problem. The only time we had Mr Janš's government, which we had in its entirety, was the Lukend project. As you know, he had three points on how to pull this project off. Firstly, we have hired additional judges, we have given them a material basis, including premises, and a third matter, as also spoke by foreign legal experts, motivational measures, that judges also have a variable part of the salary. Is this taken into account today, do judges and prosecutors who have committed mass violations of human rights, what we give you in our recommendations, or do they therefore have lower wages? Do you have tools to improve the work of Slovenian courts? The second question is how to bring the appearance of Slovenian courts, the appearance of impartiality, the appearance of respect for the Bordeaux Declaration to a different level. Mr Ciril Ribičič, in whom you most likely believe, wrote, in the case of Mr Kangler, we can say on page 12 that in the case of Mr Kangler, most of the special methods and means that the judge signs, so we are talking about hearings, signed by the judge of the court in Maribor, Mr. Žirovnik from the District Court. For him, Mr Ciril Ribičič wrote the following opinion: "The transition of someone from a function in an intelligence agency to a judge is already very problematic and sensitive in itself. The way the Owl works is a secret operation. The problematic ways in which information is collected are unacceptable for judicial proceedings, the use of covert interventions in the privacy of individuals.” “On the basis of the order of the Director of Owl...” and so on. He found that it was a grave and conscious violation of Frank Kangler's right to an independent and impartial judge, without whom we could not even speak of an honest one, let alone a fair trial. To continue to say, I have said several times about Mr Žirovnik that he was also a member of the State Security Service. How could this man, as a judge of the district court, have come past the 101st Section of the Judicial Service Act, how could he have become a judge in Slovenian courts and later an assistant director of the Owl? Like an ex-con, by the way. Is that possible?Oh, my God! And why does this immune system that we are talking about today not work against such individuals? In the case of Mr Janša, you had everything that means on an international level, as far as legal professionals are concerned. You know all the opinions that have been in this case and all these opinions confirm that Mr Janša did not have an impartial trial and was a typical violation of Article 6 of the Convention of the European Court of Human Rights. The statistics we repeat most often include 148 violations per million inhabitants and so on. Today we have about 340 cases in the European Court of Human Rights. Do you think this immune system works normally, you think this doctrine works normally, you think we have impartial and independent judges in Slovenia? We have them, some are impartial and independent. And it is for those, too, that we call such meetings to receive, we can say, more courage in their work, that in every normal society, those who work poorly are punished in order to clear the systems and subsystems of this country that destroy the immune system of Slovenian modern society. That's what we're talking about today. And we're talking about the systemic problem again. We are talking about the judges we would like, the judges who would like to have dry texts, the abstract texts that we are preparing here in the National Assembly, put into that beauty of spirit, in the text of a judicial judge. All that legal theorists later enjoy and also students of law schools around the world repeat, read and learn from such judicatures how to act in certain cases and how not to act. The case of Mr Janša, the case of Patrio is being considered in one of the legal faculties today as an example of how the judiciary cannot act, what looks like, literally, a biased judicial system in Slovenia. And all these cases, total criminal policy went into some right-wing population, nothing to the left. Do you think that's normal? Do you think this balance, system of brakes and balances in Slovenian society works? This was also discussed by the Constitutional Court in one of the cases of Patrie. It's not working. And when something doesn't work, the system fills up. And that's the problem, that's what we're talking about today. In the case of Mr Kangler, the Court of Justice, which dealt with one of his complaints, wrote an incredible text, which would most likely have fallen to the European Court of Human Rights. “It is already that Mr Kangler is this and that, but we are very likely to return to politics.” This is the statement of Judge Dr. Pozek in Maribor. Do you think this is about the appearance of the impartiality of a judge? It was an example of the withdrawal of the mandate of the state councillor. It was the irreparable consequences of one individual. In the case of Patria, however, it was the irreparable consequences of Slovenian society since the left government took place after 2008. At that time we were indebted to a little more than 20% of the gross social product, and then we could say that it was exponentially growing our debt. We went literally, not into protocyclical measures, but directly into cyclical measures and into a complete change in the financial policy of a left-wing government. And in that case, there should be a serious right-wing government. These are long-term consequences for Slovenian society, i.e. the failure of the judicial system, the irreparable immune system and, as Jože Pučnik said, all that we never expected came back. Later, we get the renaissance, literally, of some Yugoslavia. The problem of all of what I have listed today, the problem of reverberating cases, everything that my colleagues have said today, about people coming to my office, as well as colleagues, because of the failure of Slovenian courts. These are the key problems, the key problems people have. And we are not just talking about politics, we are talking about citizens and citizens. One last case to close. That this doctrine has not yet been eradicated, says the last example. Here we have a representative of the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, an example of the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. But you've seen in which country someone is expanding police powers. The Ministry of Justice is preparing the law and the minister says she does not want such powers. The Minister is likely to respect, as a young lawyer, what violations of human rights can be traced back to the future with regard to such a law. The Minister and the Secretary of State are insisting on this. Most legal professionals in the field of criminal law give it to the Minister and do not give it to them. And you can see that this danger still exists, it's still bigger. That's what we're talking about, we're talking about, we need to talk about this over and over again, because as soon as he gets here, it's my turn, it's my turn, it's my turn, it's my next-door neighbors, and we're all in line. And in a judicial system like Maslow said, the hierarchy of human needs. First, they are physiological needs, and the second most important need is the need for security. And today I conclude with this, we have a need for legal certainty in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u57	Mr. Janez Janša has the floor. Prepare Mr Saša Tabakovic and Dr Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u58	These individual cases, which are listed in this material submitted for the meeting, are unfortunately not excessions. They are the result of a system that usually generates such results by definition. I remember one day a long time ago, in the summer of 1988, after a week in a female military detention on Metelkov, I somehow forced myself into it because they wouldn't allow a lawyer, criminal law. I do not recall whether this was the criminal law of the then SFRJ or the SRS, but in the introduction of this law, with some brilliant phrases, the editorial wrote that criminal law and generally a repressive apparatus in the country is a means of destroying the internal enemy. The initiator who was signed was Dr. Ljubo Bavcon. The person who is still today, or at least until recently, has been a deserving professor of the Ljubljana Faculty of Law, Professor Emeritus, a man who has long been in the judiciary, the prosecution, the police, a man who wrote in the case of Patrie that the indictive judgments are something perfectly normal, is said to be enough for someone to be judged, and a person who is actually the number of one judicial or repressive system that Slovenia has today. He wrote penal legislation, manuals and many other things in the time of independent Slovenia, without ever being hindered from his work during the totalitarian regime, which caused the suffering of thousands of people, to tens of thousands of people in the country. What we have before us today is not individual excesses that happen everywhere, but it is the result of a system that has never been reformed. In recent years some notion of a circular economy has been established. Any media you open when they report what the government does, it's all a circular economy. Let us also use this term in the cases we are talking about today. This circulation of some elites, I'm going to say Mafia elites, which allow this abuse of judicial and repressive bodies for political purposes, is comprehensive. Many examples are listed either in the material or have been mentioned so far. There's a lot of them. For example, the head of an investigation at the National Investigation Office worked part-time for a company run by his brother, which was a detective agency. Internal Affairs has discovered a type of crime here. No charges. No criminal charges. Not only did you let a man go without all of this, without an answer, without an answer from his job, but the owners of this circular economy have earned him a richly paid job in Mercator. Another such head of investigation at the NPU, internal investigation, man copied the entire NPU server and then carried this data on POP TV, press institution on national television, for a few months things were rolling again, no results except that this man's circular economy owners had raised a well-paid service at the state company Eles. If we look at where some deserving police officials from this part of the circular economy are, we find them as advisers with excellent salaries in the insurance company Triglav, Gorenje, Telekom and practically in all other major state companies in Slovenia. You find someone from this circular economy all over the place. Until they're completely discredited, they're circulating inside the system. They're police officers, then they're prosecutors, then they're a little bit of a judge, and someone's going to Owl in the middle. And the thing is, it's circling. One of the prosecutors who, in the past, has been extremely discredited by Mr Fojakr's persecution and should not only lose their jobs, but rather answer and land in prison for bullying. Whoever read anything from this case can only be appalled. No, Mrs. Branka Owen is the chief prosecutor in Nova Gorica today. She was rewarded for ruining one person’s life and probably many others. But this case has been proven and is well known. We recently unanimously adopted the report of the Commission of Angiet, a partial report on money laundering for Iran. A billion Euros washed. At that time, we made it clear that we are expecting some resignations the next day, otherwise we do not believe, nor do you on the government side, that you have voted with sincere intentions for that report. We can see that now. The people who directly participated in money laundering, concealing this act and justifying this act remained in office. Mr Furlan, who should be investigating this at the time, is not, and is now the head of the special prosecutor's group to investigate this case. A billion Euros of money laundered seven, eight years ago, no house investigation, no charges, no indictments, no indictments, no convictions, no trials. Nothing's happening. All the evidence you want. Known days, known accounts, known laws, violations of domestic and international law, nothing happens. Those who had nothing to do with it, and now you are responsible for the investigation and there are no excuses, you will be asked practically every week what is going on. And if nothing's going to happen, look, no one's going to be around us, no one's going to believe that someone for not doing anything is getting something. The matter came on the agenda of the Committee of the European Parliament, the European Investigative Institutions, so that there will be no concealment here. My friend Mahnic mentioned the bank hole report earlier. With severe pain, Banka Slovenije issued this report in 2012, said more than 5 years ago. It went to the D.A., the police, everyone. In five years, none of the major cases that can be clearly understood in this report received any epilogue. This isn't about, I don't know, two million euros and so on, it's about hundreds of millions! Because the bank hole was mainly made from large sums, not small ones. None of that. All the processing at the Factor Bank, and there's things from afar, a little funny. The magazine Mladina recently called about money laundering at the New Credit Bank Maribor for someone, it is said, an Italian bond, 2 million. Youth magazine could write calmly much more specifically about money laundering for Youth. New Credit Bank Maribor has or has owned or owned a subsidiary of Adria Bank in Vienna, 100 % owned by New Credit Bank Maribor. The Director of Adrie Bank in Vienna was Mr Yuri Children, who was also heard before this committee and remembers very little. Adria Bank in Vienna, whose director was Yuri the Child, approved I think 4 million euros and a few other loans KB 1909, which is the owner of the Youth, and because the President of the Supervisory Board was at that time – what do you say, who? Yuri the Baby. He gave himself $4 million and they never returned it. They were used by the Youth for the cover and are still used in writing about money laundering in NKBM for Italy. They probably also washed for Italy, but they also washed for the Youth, bigger sums than the ones they wrote about. Not to mention that, as the Jelkina Commission has pointed out, millions of euros of money from overpaid stents and other medical devices have gone to the same owner. No investigations, no charges, no charges, no charges, despite the fact that all of this is known and they have all of it. It's not about being individual excesses, it's about a system that works that way. And in fact, it's a normal result of an exception, not a rule. Earlier, a member of the SMC, I think Mr Zorčič was writing, was talking about how in the case of Patrio they were judging by law and how there was nothing wrong with it, how some people believed it was a scandal because the matter was outdated and something that was a scandal because the judgments were overturned. Firstly, the Constitutional Court found that in this case they were not tried by law, so do not lie. Secondly, if the standards in the Patrio case are adopted, these standards in the case of Mr Zorčič are useful as follows: I accuse Mr Zorčič of being bribed, bribed, just with the case of Patrio. If it were not for the case of Patrio, he would not be a Member, he has direct material benefits from this. He probably got more from the local environment. Where? In an unknown place. When? I don't know what day it is. In what way? In an unknown communication way. I expect the State Prosecutor's Office against Mr Zorčič to make at least an indictment, if not an indictment. For this indictment, we will provide substantially more evidence than there was in the case of Patricia against me because there was no evidence there. Not even motive. If, by chance, after ten years of justification, Mr Zorčič is not going to be convicted and the matter is going to get old, some people will think that the scandal is that the matter is outdated and some people think it's a scandal because he wasn't convicted. However, in any case, Mr Zorčič will be able to claim compensation. So I expect the prosecution to table an indictment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u59	Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to prepare Dr Jasna Murgel and Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings for me, too. Whenever we define ourselves by political debate to the part of another branch of government, which is independent of politics by the Constitution, we need to be careful. Careful because, by exposing certain cases, they can always, like it or not, be understood as political pressure on law enforcement and sanctioning authorities or as certain types of political rehabilitation of individual party colleagues, champions and so on. Despite the fact that we have obtained a list of various judgments in the material, and despite the fact that it is not clear from the material that these individuals have agreed to discuss these names in this way today, we cannot pretend that this list was created by chance or by lot. I guess the proponent didn't draw the case, but he probably had some clues as to why these are the cases. Therefore, even if I may say so, there is, or at least with me, that I have learned in the three years since I have been in the National Assembly that whenever the SDS Group prepares a proposal and asks why it is likely that it always has its own cause. However, what I agree with the proposaler is that it is right for the National Assembly to treat the deviations responsibly and objectively, if I may say so, within the judicial system, to be in the court area, in the field of police, prosecution and so on, so that it must be dealt with by a certain degree of discretion and, above all, objectively through the prism of the legislation in force. Why do I speak through the prism of existing legislation? Because we have also actually listened to the SDS colleagues as well as to the proposaler, who is actually trying to trace some idea that within the justice system is always only a human factor. However, I think it is important that, above all, as the legislative branch of power, we ask ourselves what is actually going on with the legislation, so that, if we can call them that, they actually happen. Maybe Dr. Gorenak doesn't remember his statement when he was Minister of the Interior. The statement was presented on the SIOL website on 31 March 2013, where, in the case of Robert Fojakr, he said: “The State is obliged to correct the injustice. Can we read to the court that it didn't work legally? No, no, no. Can we report to the D.A. that it didn't work legally? No, no, no. Everything was in accordance with the law, but the state by legal means destroyed 11 years of human life.” In fact, when I talk about the validity of legislation, I also partly agree with such a dictatorship, because I do not want all objections to be attributed exclusively to a human factor within the justice system. That is why I have also decided to define myself to the Vaskrsić case, which is also somehow exposed in the text for the meeting. We are talking about a case that has experienced the final epilogue in the European Court of Human Rights. However, it seems to me that this case is very accurate to draw a picture of our system, to be on the side of the legislation, then to the judiciary or law enforcement authorities and, of course, to the public. When the case was exploited through the media and when I listened to a variety of discussions, I also read various articles on this subject, which some more precisely dealt very superficially with this case, I could see very quickly that, in fact, at all levels of our social life, the devastating thought of a lack of confidence in the judiciary and also of a lack of respect for the practice of the courts has deteriorated to unheard of possibilities. What they took care of, not only of this Vaskrsić case, but also of other resounding court cases, if all the commentators who were called at that time to comment on the case, which was partly concluded before the court, did not have a factual view either of the files or of the trial itself. When we also talk about the judiciary, of course, we also need to draw attention to the banalisation of court cases, which then happens to us with different comparisons, articles, comments in the media. If we do not stop such banalisation by ourselves as politicians, it seems to me that as a society, we certainly do not write well. Above all, I found this idea very interesting, which has also become public, this kind of thought that some Members have used in their debates. In fact, the idea that in every society, in fact, every community is ruled by certain elites, regardless of which society is concerned, which, according to other citizens, always have certain benefits and that, in fact, society is always threatened by decay or decay, somehow always from above. We have even some parties in this call of the National Assembly who have actually been building their political libido on this basis, that is, always some of the elites from above. Of course, such thinking is somehow logical or justifiable because of individuals who have wrongly harmed the country and people for the vast sum of money that they have done to affect the basic dignity of many workers and, consequently, other citizens, because we are still scratching these holes or improper jobs from the state budget. In doing so, these same individuals can also say that a certain part of the legislation is playing the system and laughing in a mustache to all of us how they can easily lower the level of some general legal and social consciousness. Here, however, I would be surrounded by the current CAP, which has ended in the State Council and I hope, if not voted, the re-voting of the National Assembly and that various passions will calm down, that there will be some reasonable solutions that will at least one day see the light of the day, that we will not excuse some individuals even in the way that I have talked about when, in fact, legislation also laughs at us in a mustache. On the other hand, in these more resilient cases, citizens who, due to economic and social distress, do not feel part of the so-called tabulated communities or elites that, in fact, the public and also the politicians are already understood as someone whose system does not allow them to live in accordance with our legal order. More. Today we have also listened to discussions on this subject, which increasingly justify small irregularities, small legal irregularities of citizens with the aim of not being fair to sanction them in any way, but why, on the other hand, if we look at the so-called "big fish" that are still walking around the city. Instead of encouraging as a political body the idea that the rule of law must apply, regardless of the social status of the individual, it is still, on the basis of what has been said, that some divisions between the so-called first and the other citizens are also highlighted. And that's definitely not right. When we talk about the Vaskrsić case, I would say, because it has already been mentioned, it has also been addressed by the Ombudsman, and the report has also been on this subject by the Supreme Court, even under the applicable legislation, I would personally say that a person who does not want to actively exercise his rights when he simply ignores calls for enforcement, although he has the means to pay his debts, I speak in person, cannot create a feeling of mercy in my eyes. If a person does not have a moral sense to care for and verify his or her rights and duties, it seems to me that he or she cannot earn some moral support from the public. If we give this support or if we give it to him himself, we would also agree with the same mistake that we usually read to so - called elites, meaning that we are sending some signal that inappropriate conduct is appropriate. On the contrary, because I do not wish to be misunderstood, it is for individuals who do not have the option of paying the debt, and because of the legislation in force, their fate can end as well as for someone who has actually tried to play the piano. In this case, the Ombudsman even warned that debtors in most cases, in particular when the enforcement procedure proposes enforcement of property of existential importance to them not only for them but also for their family, that, in fact, these individuals seek appropriate legal assistance only when it is no longer effective. Some individuals are also completely lost in these systems, are not found, etc. However, what happened to me personally before I took office in the National Assembly, which, in the case of Vaskrisić as a citizen who followed this case through the media, was that, in fact, whatever the personal characteristics of the individual are, what his personal circumstances are, that no one actually shaved on what the European Court of Human Rights decided in the end, that the simple law was not good and that the court acted in accordance with the law, but that the law itself was disproportionate in that sense. In fact, this is what I wanted to say in this case, that when we critically refer to the justice system, we must always have a broader picture and, above all, a context, and that we cannot refer cases just like that or superficially. I must say that, in fact, I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice has prepared a revision of the legislation that will make these enforcement complications, if I may say so, an end, and in fact also eliminate abuses, under the terms that are taking place within some kind of complication. I am talking about abuse in this sense, because the creditor and debtor involved in such a dispute usually, when this dispute ends before a court, somehow leave the dispute scratched, shabbed, while the third party accompanying their plot, whether it be lawyers or executioners or the like, benefit greatly from such a complication. And this is also some kind of legal-moral plane that I think we need to be careful about and that we as a community still haven't placed a point on them, and we should. In view of what I believe to be the case of Vaskrsić, today by a decision of the European Court of Human Rights, it only shows that when we criticize the legal system or the understanding of the rule of law, judicial practice, statistics and so on, we must always have a broader context, a broader picture, and we must all advocate that this context is as transparent as possible. When we had our mother's working body, my colleague Zorčič said that he would also like judges, when a judgment ends, to give some clear signals or some clear explanation to the media, why it has decided as it is. I think that this could be much more helpful to some legal culture and ultimately to some understanding of judicial practice, and also to the perception of the public on the one hand, that they would not be or that the public would not always refer only to certain specific articles. I think that when we talk about deviations within the legal system, we should always look at the context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u61	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, representative of the proposer, please. Mr. Beznik, did you want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u62	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u63	Okay. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u64	Oh, sorry, I didn't see. Look, you need to react right away because then you lose the story. On 31 March 2013, I was not Minister, so I could not make such statements. But if the date before you is January 31st, it can be accurate, not March 31st. You have nothing to report to the court in Robert Fojker's case. That was then a fact and is still a fact today that the court actually corrected the mistakes of the prosecution. Even to the prosecution at the time of his work it is difficult and you can't read anything because the prosecutor will always say to you: “I am persecuting crime, but you have to be quiet.” And in a way, the D.A. is right. However, when the court has written down Fojakr's case, I will take the words, like this, “the prosecutor complains unjustifiably, the prosecutor has no evidence, no end”. Only then did the situation arise when this lady had to answer and the compensation paid to Fojkar would Germany, Austria and Italy recover from the prosecutor. This is the approximate story of that thing you were talking about there. As far as Vassarsic is concerned, you can't refer to, I don't know, inappropriate legislation. Boštjan M. Zupančič was then a judge of the ECHR, he wrote at the time, “the judge must apply the law and the farming of the brain”. A common farmer must use his brains and he said, as an ECHR judge at the time, that it is not possible to sell the house for EUR 124. But watch out, there's one more problem. Despite the fact that the ECHR has already decided on this matter, you have a repetition of the same story 10, 14 days ago in New City. €350 is sold or auctioned for an apartment worth €70,000. So the justice system after Vaskrisic didn't do anything to make things right. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u65	Continue with Dr. Clearly Murgel, prepare Dr. Dragan Matić and Mr. Jože Tanko. Dr. Murgel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I agree that the proposals for these decisions proposed by the proposer have been rejected by the Committee on Justice. Why? Because I believe that this methodology, which has been chosen by the proponents by these references to these specific cases, is wrong because we have a very large number of cases before the police, the prosecution, and these are just some of them, on which we cannot justify some final decisions. The first is that the cases are presented in the way they are presented in the media. Some have experienced a judicial epilogue, some still have all available legal remedies. It may also seem a little controversial to me that now, if we are talking about this Patria, who will be claiming compensation for this dispute here as a Member, we are talking about this particular case in Parliament. But well, you'll have a chance to prove everything in court, get compensation for 15 million all together. Look, if this is a legitimate request, the court will decide that, it's a legal remedy, and in short, I don't see what the legal system wouldn't do here. Some of these cases are the vision of the applicants in the description of the cases themselves, which are just their vision. How many of these cases are dealt with by the police, the court, the prosecutor's office, are not mentioned here because they want to point out certain cases with a specific purpose. If we go in order. The first decision is impossible to support because it is required, for the first time, that the Government should review, I do not know from when, since 1991 or back, probably since 1991, all cases, given that the abuse of the authorities of detection, prosecution and judicial branch of the Authority is being established. Now I don't know if it's just what got the epilogue in court or not, or how, it's not clear what the government is actually going to do. In view of the fact that we are dealing with justice all the time, we are mostly dealing with justice here, and in the figures requested by colleague Jožef Horvat, a review of the Court's functioning is presented in the Court's report on the efficiency and effectiveness of the courts in the annual report and lastly in the 2016 report. Here are the numbers. Mr Horvat, as one of the signatories to the proposal that we are considering today, indicated that he would like numbers. Here's a whole bunch of numbers in this annual report on the functioning of the courts. The findings in this report, which we have also discussed today, because we have taken up this annual report on the Committee on Justice by chance today, are, inter alia, that the situation in the field of justice is not ideal, nobody claims this, but that the situation is improving. Among other things, the time to resolve matters is being reduced. The Court's representative also stated what was important for a general picture of the Court's operation that on average only 15% of the complaints against the judgment were made. So we have a certain number of court decisions and only against 15% of these judgments are the parties complaining. This is also a criterion on the effectiveness of the courts, as opposed to taking specific cases, we explain them in our own way and argue them, yes, and now everything is wrong. And what is also important is that today it has been reported that only between 2% and 3% of cases have been dropped in the courts. So of those against whom a complaint is filed at all, we said about 15%, for the other parties we obviously did not consider it necessary to file a complaint. So then there's a very small percentage of things that have been cancelled. In 2016, the European Court of Human Rights issued only two judgments against Slovenia in which it found certain violations. The number of these judgments against Slovenia, which addresses human rights violations, is rapidly decreasing. So there are only two for 2016. The European Commission no longer notes in its annual report in the so-called European Semester that there would be problems in the area of judicial resolution that the Commission, as it has done in previous years, should point out. Therefore, I think that the proposal for a first decision is unfounded because we have all the checks we need in the Courts' reports, in the Prosecutors' reports, in the State's defence. These reviews are available, and we can also look, if we want, at the base of the courts, at the base of the Constitutional Court and so on, and get to know the violations that have been identified. There's no reason for you to do it now and I don't know how long ago the government's been doing it. Regarding the second decision, where it is proposed to the Government to take measures to improve, he said, “The National Assembly recommends to the Government that the report propose solutions to ensure that individuals are treated fairly impartially and independently...” Let us see what the Government has already accepted and why I think this proposal is unnecessary. We have enacted mechanisms for the enforcement of higher standards of official and private conduct and the dismissal of judicial officials. With this we have implemented GRECO recommendations, introduced mandatory codes of ethics and the Ethics and Integrity Commission. A candidate can no longer run for judge with a legal indictment. Disciplinary proceedings against judges have been taken over by the Council of Justice under the new Law on the Council of Justice, which means that disciplinary proceedings will no longer be conducted by the courts. A department for the supervision of the organisation of court operations at the Ministry of Justice has been established and is managed by a Judge appointed. The reform of the State Defence Service has been carried out in the State's Attorney's Office and so on. We have passed a number of laws in the field of justice. If I just mention some, we have also amended the law on enforcement and insurance, we expect another amendment, which will also address the general level of the problem that we are also mentioning several times today, and this is a real estate issue when it comes to low amounts. We have changed the law on justice, we have adopted a new law on collective action, we have changed the law on courts, and we have taken a very large number of measures in this area to ensure and improve the whole procedure, namely the predictive, criminal and then before the courts. We have set out a more objective and transparent procedure for the selection of candidates for election to the judicial and prosecutorial functions. We have introduced mandatory public publications from the list of deletions from the catalogue of lawyers and the reasons for this and the names of all disciplinary bodies of the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. We have put in place mandatory public statements on the opinions of the Ethics and Integrity Commissions within the framework of the judiciary and the prosecution. A free examination of the data provided by the Court of First Instance and a public publication of the judgments of the Court of First Instance, so-called Supervisor, was established on the basis of amendments to the Rules of Procedure of January 2017 and so on. If I can list some more measures. In July 2016, the Law on State Administration entered into force, which explicitly adds to the tasks of the Ministry of Justice to the study and planning of the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms. This gave us the authority of one of the ministries of human rights. The Ministry of Justice has also begun to monitor more closely the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations and the Ombudsman has already stated several times on committees where we have also discussed her report on the state of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia, that the Government is also providing a response report for half a year on how the Ombudsman's recommendations are being implemented. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe further noted in its 10th report on the monitoring of the implementation of the ECHR judgments for 2016 that the statistics of the judgments carried out by this Court in respect of all the Member States of the Council of Europe are improving and that Slovenia has contributed significantly to more favourable statistics as two major final resolutions of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the ECHR judgments, were adopted in 2016, namely the implementation of the Lukend judgment on a reasonable time frame and effective judicial protection. In short, we have also taken a series of measures within this government's mandate to actually bring about a fair trial and that procedures could be carried out in accordance with our constitutional order and the rule of law. So I don't think the second conclusion is necessary, and it's right that we rejected it. The third conclusion is to analyse the responsibility of individual officials and other responsible persons, for which we have existing legislation available and under this legislation it is possible to initiate all appropriate procedures to establish this responsibility, but in the process where the facts and evidence are given. If there is evidence of any liability, if the conditions are laid down to determine that responsibility, then it will be found, but if not, it will not be. Therefore, there are legal procedures, ranging from civil and fair to criminal. This also makes this decision unnecessary in my opinion, and I believe that it has to be rejected as well. We insist on this today, too, on Members of the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u67	Replica, Mr. Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to replicate my dear colleague, Jasna Murgel, a respected doctor of law. You misunderstand me. I'm sorry. We've given you numbers, like a Eurobarometer, a 16% confidence. We have given you examples in the material that you would not be able to tell us that we are coming to the National Assembly without numbers, without cases, without arguments. I am very well aware of this report that you have presented, and I regret it, and I now take advantage of it to invite you to reconsider and to make a positive climate at the October session to support both our proposals for legislation. The New Slovenia proposal on the courts and the New Slovenia proposal on the prosecution, because I heard that you created the climate on the home labour body, which helped to bring the laws down. However, there were some minds on the part of the coalition, which I am extremely grateful to, but which in their common sense and full consciousness supported these two laws of ours. So it's time for the midterm.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u69	Mrs. Iva Dimic, representative of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Of course, who's gonna have lunch with Mrs. Murgel? However, we are also reading a report, which we have discussed today, on the functioning of the 2016 courts. However, I would return to the third recommendation, which was the basis of today's point. This was that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, analyse the responsibility of individual officials and other responsible persons and, in accordance with the law, initiate appropriate procedures for their resolution or action against all these officials. I don't see the problem in this third conclusion that you, I would say, ran him over on the committee itself. However, we all say that we want justice to be fair, that trust is returned and that those who do bad things are not, after all, sanctioned. However, if I look only at 2015, there were two quite problematic cases in Slovenia around September 10, 2015. These were Maslesha's and Fisher's cases, but nothing just happened. The officials did not make a self-critical, self-reflective decision to do anything, nor did the ministry, what the current minister said at the time, that as a minister of justice, they could not interfere with their decisions on what they would do, but it seems to me that our officials are having trouble taking on subjective responsibility, but not just that – for their irregularities and illegalities. That was proven, and nothing happened. We also want to say something about this, some kind of abuse, detection, persecution and so on, it doesn't work if we have the highest officials at the very top who can't do it. I don't talk that much back. We have also read this report on the courts. Back to back, things are cleaned up, and so on. But we need to know where those things were the worst, where they caused the most irregularities or anything. However, I was interested, the Constitutional Court, the highest body before entering the European Court of Human Rights, what is happening there, what they perceive, what problems. And this report on page 83 also states that the Constitutional Court is the most frequent, 27 times finding a violation of Article 22 of the Constitution. And that is: a fair trial, in practice in particular the right to a declaration and the right to a reasoned judgment. That's what we're talking about today. Infringements of the right to judicial protection referred to in Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Constitution also appear somewhat. Thus, the Constitutional Court finds that cases have also taken place in the field of the Constitution, the violation of the Constitution, which the Constitutional Court has found eight times. Other human rights violations included violations of the right to privacy and personal rights, namely Article 35 of the Constitution; the inviolability of housing, Article 36(1) of the Constitution; and the right to secrecy of letters and other communications, Article 37(1) of the Constitution. This was highlighted by the Constitutional Court in this year's 2016 Court Report. I am not talking about working in 2008, 2007 but we are talking about the 2016 report that violations are still taking place, including the human rights follow-up, on the basis of the Constitution. This should be seriously considered. Therefore, it seems to me that, on our proposal for a third decision to recommend that the responsibility of individual officials be analysed, we should say that we will finally take one step forward in Slovenia and resolve matters in an appropriate manner. We did not want anyone there to be exposed to a public wall, but to see that we look back at ourselves and say that we will no longer allow it in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u71	Three other debaters have been reported in this regular work, Dr Dragan Matić, Mr Jože Tanko and Dr Mitja Horvat. Dr. Matić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the beginning, let me point out that I'm going to have a little wider debate, and actually I'm just going to relate to that. That's what some of my predecessors were talking about. Therefore, I am warning you now that there would be no doubt that I am moving away from the darkness because they already are. As already said by my colleague Zorčič, cases that have begun long before this mandate are being used today in the debate. Many of them already have beards, even ad acta. In this way, it is trying to show that the area of police work, the courts in the present tense, is poor, which, of course, does not hold up some sober judgment, as the international institutions recognise us as a great success. There has been remarkable progress with regard to the judicial backlogs that have been at the forefront of this judicial system over the past 20 years. However, the planned legislative changes will certainly contribute to improving the overall situation. However, when it comes to determining the responsibility of an individual judge, this can only be resolved in an individual case. Looking for cases of excellence and generalizing the whole situation from individual cases is a political moment where someone may think it will bring him some political points in this way, but I doubt it. Many of the present debates come at odds with themselves or fall into the past, as has already been the case with Mr Gorenak. Mr Gorenak had many different views in the past when he was in different roles. When he was, I don't know, the minister of police threatened to cancel the collective agreement in the police union, and then accused them of playing pingpong between the hours the state pays them. But when a few years later a police strike came and he was an MP, he supported them on a large mouth and his heart bled over the difficult conditions of police officers. These roles sometimes change, and positions change, but we should keep some level of debate. If I stop at the debate of Member Horvat, who sometimes calls himself Member 90, I must say that at least part of his debate was indeed at the level of 90. In this way, to explain or evaluate the work of judges when it shows us in some way some kind of innular debate, for example, that a Puerto Rico judge boasts about how she has made someone and how she is another blacksmith. I do not think that this is the way to debate in Parliament. If Member Horvat has a specific case, let him come with a name, surname, with evidence. In this way, criticizing the judicial system in some alleged cases that it is supposed to happen and that it has heard about, but it says so more generally, is a very strange way. I think, Mr Horvath, instead of moaning over these alleged cases, which are more so wrapped in a veil of mystery, it would be good to support some of the laws they are preparing in the government. As far as these percentages are concerned, 16% of the people trust the court, according to some data, only 8% of the people trust in Parliament. I don't know how Members would feel if the judges had any advice, but there would be little discussion about this worrying percentage of confidence in Members and then propose some measures to increase people's confidence in the legislature. Is this an appropriate discussion now when we are talking about a branch of power? I don't know. I doubt that. Mr. Beznik was talking about the immune system that he canceled. The name system was cancelled and he spoke here about the fact that it was not an illustration as in the German case – this is what you very much like in the SDS – where all the judges and professors who worked with Stasi were replaced. And there was a successful transition, but not with us. He also pointed out that there is still a woman from one of the members of the Judgment. Now I don't know if in Germany Stasi's wife can't judge, I don't know. I would ask myself – has your government, under the leadership of Mr Janez Janša, passed any lustration law in four years? Is that what happened? Not that I know of. And you know why it didn't happen? Because many of us should be chandeliers themselves, because among you are former officials of the Communist Party and other visible organs of the then government. Of course you couldn't do that, but you'd rather have some parallel lustration that didn't go well. As we recall, last December, Mr Janez Janša said about the weekly Democracy that, paraphrasing, I do not have a precise quote that the prerequisite for normalising society is that the material of SDV becomes universally accessible, that it is more important than if we had 10% economic growth. He said something about it. How has this been done by your government? In 2011, when Mr Omerza wanted to get to the SDV archival material, Mr Selan, then Director of the Sowe, came to me and brought an agreement under which Mr Rupnik and Mr Koshir had been signed. Mr Rupnik was appointed by Mr Janša as Director of the Owl and Mr Koshir Simoniti, Minister of SDS, Minister of Culture. These two gentlemen signed an agreement that the archive material of the SDV was not available until 2044. Is this now an example of good practice? I can bring you this contract, Mr. Janša, because you're a dragon with your head, you've probably forgotten. We've got it all set up. [[advertising from the hall]] I don't have one here, but I'll deliver it to you. The following example, in 2013, as well as the Director of Sove Mr Crnčec, and the Director of the archive, Mr Dežman, were also unable to bring all the material of SDV into the archive, although you say that the super important thing is more important than 10% economic growth. You didn't make it to the other one, either. So this is how we talk now about how lustration has not been performed and how terrible this is now because it has not been done. Look, you guys had a chance, and somehow you didn't make it. And now you're discussing here that they are, I think, because that would be a little funny. Mr Beznik wondered which of those judges who had committed mass violations of human rights and should have taken part in their wages, that was a variable part. Is this a suggestion that for mass violations of human rights a sanction for the removal of variable labour? That's a strange suggestion. Furthermore, Mr Janez Janša did not have an independent trial. What about Mr Riedl, but he didn't have an independent trial in Austria? In Austria, do they also have an immune system in their courts that has failed? We have the case of Patrio, who has real foundations in the judgment of the Austrian Supreme Court. It clearly says who took the money and who it was meant for. Unless you're saying there's a judicial system in Austria that's been shut down, which, I don't know, is overtaken by, I don't know, agents of what one-party system, which then works so badly and affects Slovenia. Mr. Janez Janša spoke about cases that are not excesses, but rules. He was also talking about a bank hole being investigated by Anzet's committee. Between 2004 and 2008, this is said to have created a bank hole of 5 billion at the time of your government. At that time, the people SDS set up were sitting in all the supervisory boards of the banks. Credits were given very generously; they were not difficult to obtain. Even the people with the names Bavčar, Shrot, they got them. And they also went to visit the government palace. In August 2005, Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem, one of the leaders of the SDS, the State Secretary in the then cabinet of the Government, came to some agreement on Mercator's shares, on the other hand, in exchange for balancing the media that they were writing on the left. Was that an extraordinary event, or was that a rule? What about the extraordinary event about Intereuropa, Andre Lochshin? 100 million blew up. Is this an extraordinary event, or is that a rule? So Robert the Timer, Luca Koper, is this an extraordinary event, or is that a rule? I don't know. And the former mayor of Rupar, including an MP who also ended up in prison, but is this an extraordinary case or a rule? I want to understand where you now see the excess, where the rule is. I don't know. I don't understand your model. Because all these cases that I've listed, we should keep in mind when we think about who's recommending something. Who was trying to help make the system better? Who tried to purge the system of those who had committed mass violations of human rights? Did he have a chance, but he couldn't clean it? How is this moral authority on this side now? If the judicial system didn't work, we couldn't say. Mr. Bavčar and Mr. Shrott are sitting down, and they've been convicted. It's hard to say now that nothing works and no case comes to an end. Let us also look at examples of good practice. If you want to have an objective judgment, let us draw positive cases, not only those that you think are excellent, but also started in 2007 or 2010. This government has not yet been given a mandate. Give more if we look back in history, remember, comrades, let's get everything out, even what was good when a positive epilogue ever occurred, not just what you think is wrong. Some objective criteria, some indicators, international comparisons, reduction of judicial backlogs. I miss all this stuff in this paper. Perhaps it would be good if it were a little more refined next time, so that we could have a discussion based on some material that would have a more realistic basis for everything I said. Of course, it is clear that we could not even support the recommendations on such a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u73	Replica, Mr. Joseph Horvat, then representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Mr. Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I must tell my respectable colleague Dragan Matić, the doctor of science, otherwise I don't know if it's worth it, or if he won't remember that I never said I was Member 90. I'm concerned, Comrade Dr. Matić, if you're counting us here. We in Novi Slovenija or in the opposition can't count, you know. But everyone knows, I've said it a hundred times, only you don't know that I'm talking about the seat number 90 where I'm sitting. If you compare me to a seat, thank you for that. Thank you also for rating me by number, giving my debate a score of 90, if 100 is possible, thank you very much. You haven't listened again, and it's a good thing that you're sitting here listening, not doing anything else and a hundred other things. I was quoting a professor of European law, and I don't want to name him here, really, because I didn't ask him if I could. But it has a lot of columns and Google, it's a professor of European law, and you'll find who it is. I am really asking for a little more precision, but not just making fun of the discussions of the opposition Members. We're just as elected as you are, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u75	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u76	Now the situation requires some comments. Secretary of State and Secretary, what are you doing here? You're stealing money from God and time or what? You predicted an hour, and now I'm looking at you here because I don't need your picture, and I need your words. When I was talking about a lot of cases today, look, one text came back. What we were talking about the last time, someone wrote to me, and that's a young judge. It is, however, that today it may have come true that we are criticising the entire justice of all 900 judges, all 220 prosecutors and so on. No, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, it must also be said to the public that the cases we are talking about belong mainly to judges and prosecutors or to police officials who belong to another regime and who belong at some other time, or are older people in particular who did not switch that 1990 happened, and who do not separate and still think that what Bacon wrote is true that criminal law is a means of persecuting an internal enemy. This has now been replaced – the opposition and the internal enemy, but they continue to operate on the same principle. But there are many judges and many prosecutors, especially young people, including the judge who sent me this text, which we must not ignore. Our last conversation when we talked about the state of justice and what we are going to deal with today, and I showed her the material, but the response is about the following: “You don’t think you have any support, you have it, but we don’t hope to say it. This is the state of justice and the prosecution.So it'll be clear who it's flying on, and it's not flying at all. It doesn't fly to those who judge fairly, who do well, and so on. Mr. Matić, I need to get back to you here. We've spent the last two days together in Brussels, and you've been quite a normal conversationalist, at least for coffee. We just agreed on a lot of things. But now you're really confusing some things. Now we're going in order. I agree that the SMC, as a party to which you belong, as a rule has nothing to do with these cases. Okay, but you have, above all, tolerance and promotion and reward for people who are involved in the cases we're talking about. Look, you raised Mr. Skull, and you sent him to Eurojust. Mr Klemenčič has been given the greatest opportunity in his life in your coalition, he has become Minister for violating the law. Unofficially, your colleagues told me: "We have not found another, help God, and we have taken him as minister." Finally, you rewarded Mr Funk with the position of CEO, and we all know what was going on with the Kangler case. Even with Patria if you want. So you have a lot of it — with rewards for these people. But you messed up that police union thing and changing your statements. Yes, it is because the police union at the time had a contract with the state, so as such, with the government to benefit, remember – what the situation is today, I don't know – that 70 to 80 full-time police officers, 8 hours a day, worked for the union. That's the kind of contract they had. Do you imagine that 70 to 80 police officers work all the time, draw wages, draw benefits, and, among other things, play ping-pong, because they did call and ski, and I don't know what else they had. All during work hours. That's why I announced the termination of a contract, which I would have heard if I was still a minister. Then you said how they bleed and suffer. Yes, of course, I was talking about those who are out here fighting, if I may say so, with those who have been metaling for money out here. That's what I'm talking about. So don't mix those two statements up. Now for the lustration. First of all, the lustration you imagined was never meant to be. Never! When you said yes, you should have yourself, members of the ZK. It's not true! Lustration is conceived within the meaning of the Judicial Service Act. It is said that there cannot be a judge who has violated human rights in the previous system according to current standards. The same was meant lustration in this respect, says those who violated human rights and freedoms, these are active and spare members of the intelligence service and the political top of the party, political leadership that guided all of this and not members of the KIC. And then, look at the SDS that I belong to, she sent the lustration bill twice to the National Assembly. Twice! But he wasn't accepted. Yeah, we sent it. Our task force. Twice. If you give me – please, if you give me a replica – then if you provide me with the support of your 35 Members, we will file a law tomorrow morning. Can I help you, please? Give me backup, that'll do it. We need 46 votes. Count yours, New Slovenia I know you wouldn't mind. You don't need pensioners, not SDs, not lions. We'll get the law right away. Here you go. You've talked about the agreement before, and the Rupnik, and so on. Rupnik never signed an agreement that the archive material of the SDV would not be handed over to the archive. That's not true. We both know that. We both know that some of the material was delivered between 2000 and 2004. But very little. We both know that most of the material was already delivered to you between 2004 and 2008. But it's true, we're talking about most of the material, not like you said, about everything. But it is true that Rupnik signed an agreement for some small piece of the archive, I stress, without the knowledge of the government. At that time, I participated in all the meetings of the Government, even though I was the Secretary of State in the Cabinet, but we have never considered this material in the Government. So we have to be fair and fair. Besides, it's not the theme of today's session. And now you've gone to 2004-2008 credits. Between 2004 and 2008, you may have taken credit for your car. Maybe I'm talking. But I had, like, a loan at the time. Did the government decide that? You know the government didn't make that decision. You can't say the government is responsible for your credit or my loan. However, the government is responsible for the state of the state budget and is responsible for all the situation in this regard. This is where we got the country's debt from 26 to 21%. And not the last time in 2008 left the government's control for the first time in history with a plus. Not to read this to this government because it doesn't. You were talking about Mercator and those things. I think someone else is going to answer you next to me, but I'm going to say this anyway. But that was okay when Mrs. Bratuškova was selling Mercator? But that was okay? I don't know why it was okay. She even met them publicly. Otherwise, we cleared the matter of Mercator's alleged sale in the National Assembly in that mandate, as far as I know, and another term later. Then look at the matter. The watchman, Rupar, Loshin. What does this have to do with today's topic? Have them convicted. Whoever did this has to be convicted. We have no influence on that. I repeat, whoever did this is to be convicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u77	Replica, Mr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u78	Thank you for saying so, President. I just wanted to explain it because maybe we didn't get along. I was talking about that you didn't file a lustration law during your government. But if you were investing in the opposition, it's the fate of the opposition's laws. And during your government, the lustration law was not introduced. How you imagined it, whether you would be lustrating only judges or anyone else, or officials, was also said to be a little wider, not just judges. I did not say that Rupnik had adopted an agreement or a contract not to transfer the material, but that much of the material was not available until 2044. And they took this by taking the last document that was still in the file that started before 1990, and it went on until 2004, and they gave it another 40 years. And with the full mass of this material it was then determined that it was not available. However, that material was applied to so - called living cases. This is said to have started something, and then the SDV continued, because in the area of the Secret Service we also had no interruptions with previous structures in the one-party regime. We know who the last SDV director was and that he didn't decide to shut down the SDV, but he just shut down the inner part in charge of internal control and left the outside agents behind and left everything else behind to move on. As a result, this material was also announced until 2044, on the basis of, once again, I stress, the director appointed by Janez Janša, who sits here. On the basis of this agreement between this Director and the Director of the Archives. Come in. The Supervisory Boards of State Banks looked away when the loans were issued without adequate insurance. We know that. Five billion at that time was created this way. The Governing Councils looked away when they were to act, but they did not. And the economy overheated with these loans. This is how the tycoons were created. That is also what your former Minister, Mr Damian, writes on his blogs. Why did I mention the Timer and the Bavčar? Because there was talk of a bank hole, because at the time it was coming, these are actors who helped to dig and are so visible and fortunately at least these two experienced the right hand to catch them. There could be more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u79	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Then the representatives of the Government and the two candidates for the final part should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I have a feeling that Mr Matić is talking about things he doesn't even understand. However, financial activity is not likely to be a subject that he could explain in a credible manner in the National Assembly. The only Mercator sale that happened was made in your mandate. Your government gave it to the Croats. It was a sale. Not some other guy. As long as there were other governments, it was all Slovenian, now it's gone. However, as regards that incitement to irresponsibility, you have in your parliamentary group a Member who has been involved in a criminal act at one of the institutions, and you have done nothing, and is still a Member. I'm asking you, why isn't the process running out? As you have determined or detected the withdrawal of your mandate, let us do so here, when you are talking about credibility, credibility and so on. You've got this right here, right in front of you. As for this government report that we have received on this material, I have to protest again in some way with the President of the National Assembly. The government is not the one to determine in any way whether this material we have given may be the basis for the convening of an extraordinary meeting or not. The president of the National Assembly did not react, he did not react again. The government doesn't have any authority to say that. And secondly, the recommendations we made are not contrary, as the Government stated, to the basis of the rule of law. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, they are an integral part of the foundations of the rule of law, we have remedied them properly, with editorial corrections, and as such they have been put into the process. The Legislative and Legal Service has also found that they are consistent with their findings. Nevertheless, the coalition did not support them. In a few days, there will be a construction package on the agenda where the amendments are more than just articles. They're not cured by the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, but you've confirmed them. So much for the duality of the government and the duality of the coalition. Since you are here now, Mr President of the National Assembly, I would ask you to call the meeting at the time of the presence of Minister Klemenčič. Whenever we address an important issue in the field of justice that we demand, there is no Minister. The government's been quiet for five hours. Mr. Chief, I'm lucky, I've been with him for the second meeting, he's been sitting here for 10 or 11 hours, and he hasn't said a word, not in a closed room, not here. Not a word. The government's attitude towards the National Assembly is catastrophic. Even what you say, the Government has not questioned any subject of our proposal in a single sentence. Not one. We listed them – Mr Gorenak said there about 25, 30. So everything that's written here stands. The key problem that I see, however, is that you, with ease, extremely easy, including the former judge, are talking about compensation. Indemnifications are part of a problem that does not affect those who have experienced as much fate as is dealt with here, in practice, even 5%. They give financial compensation, they don't give back broken families, they don't bring back family problems, they don't bring back problems at work, they don't give back jobs, they don't give back anything. They never return a good name again. What has been done in these cases is a conscious process that has been brought down. For me, it's not that much of a problem for citizens who are violating. The problem is the judges, the prosecutors and those who are in these infringement proceedings, the ones who should be judged by the constitution and the law that are being taken into custody here. And in these cases, we find violations today in these cases. I think in these cases it is necessary to say that these things should no longer happen. Look, Judge Jasna Murgel of the government's parliamentary group speaks with extreme ease, and that is how it will be, and the law is to blame, and the solutions are to blame. They're not guilty of law because the law didn't break the law, and the law didn't break the constitution. But he's human. The one who was appointed to do so in a particular procedure to judge by the Constitution and the law. In these cases it is personal responsibility and personal decision, not the problem of law. This has nothing to do with the law. Another problem that arises in all these things is rewards. Colleagues have talked a lot about problems, cases, and I'll talk about rewards. At least some of them. Mr Rob and Mr Squeakle were members of the Social Democrats and were involved in two affairs. One is a wiretap in the Bay of Piran, the other is an affair with Patria. Mr Cwickl led an investigative commission in the National Assembly, which in any way wanted to prove something and to find out that he was connected to the person who was providing pear services in Systemic Engineering. But apparently this project was very successful for the background or for those who launched the affair. And Mr. Squeakle was rewarded. The President of the Government then became Borut Pahor in the elections, won the SD elections after this affair, and the award for Mr Squikel was the service in the European Court of Auditors. 20 to 25 thousand euros a month's salary. With three salaries, he earned more than the President of the Government. The second person involved in these stories was Mr Rob. Award of Vice-President of the European Investment Bank. That's exactly what he's paying for. The only difference is that Mr Rop had a three-year term and Mr Squeakle had a six-year term. That these awards continue to take place is an example in Nova Ljubljanska Banka and Mr Kos, including a participant in the Patria project. High contract deal with the New Ljubljana Bank. If you calculate it for normal work, it's about 700, 800 thousand euros a year. A prize for Mr. Klemenčič. Despite his behaviour about everything he's done and all his violations, he's now a minister. Now it's just a question. When he was on an open case, when it pointed out that there was going to be an obsolescence, he said they were going to fly their heads. Why don't they fly their heads in the case of Ambassador SMC Irene Košnik Grošelj or in the case of his key when things don't even run like we heard? Why do such duplicity and, above all, attacks from the SMC in these cases? None of these cases were problematic in the government opinion. Everybody's standing. And just the question of why this is not happening in other cases, even in the case of Jankovic, even in the case of, I don't know, you mentioned Lovšin and his partner who was dealing with him in Russia. Why don't you mention Mr. Scrabble? These are the problems that are and that need to be effectively debated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u81	Before I give the floor forward, however, let me say that all the conditions for this point to be happening are met in a procedural manner, and so is the fact that it is happening at this very moment. In democracy, everyone has the right to his own opinion and can express it. So the government has an opportunity to express it. But if anyone disagrees with him, he says so, and that was all said. So we don't really need to continue this. Now is the time for us to move to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representatives of the Government, if they so wish, and the representative of the proposer, are given the floor. First, I ask the government representatives if they want a word. Yeah. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Darko Stare has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Good greetings to all Members of Parliament! Given that there were no very substantive discussions on the proposed conclusions with any measures that could contribute to the realisation of what was meant by the conclusions, we did not respond in particular. I simply do not have any more authority, no less authority, nor do I see the possibility that I could say something constructive in the name of Squeakle, Rob and those things that are past passages. And I find this completely unnecessary and unnecessary. But there's something I'd like to draw your attention to. Today, on the Justice Committee, there was a report of the courts for last year, and I think that the representatives of the judiciary have made it very clear that 16 reform laws for justice have been passed in the last three years. Some have the feeling that these things have to do, that there are too many of them, that it can have counter-effects. At the same time, it has also been found that I understand you because this is the logic of client policy and some of the starting points that you simply ignore those facts that are not in your policy, your beliefs, your claims. But these facts, despite your ignorant people, exist and others very clearly state and expose them. Outside of Slovenia. The undeniable fact is that, from 2013 to 2016, the procedures have been substantially accelerated, reduced that the backlogs have been virtually eliminated at systemic level, as noted by competent international institutions, that the procedures are significantly more fair and transparent and that this trend continues also due to measures of importance adopted by this Government, 16 laws. This, however, is also the result of actions from past periods, including past governments. What I would like to add in this context is that you do not want to discuss and see the facts which are contrary to your beliefs, but the issues that also stem from the material, that, in fact, such debates, the problems of justice in our society and beyond are virtually permanent and present all the time, since independence. And the fact is that all of these cases are probably not a coincidence and it is also important for me to say that today's debate on these recommendations is that all of these cases that you are referring to in your writings are cases from a distant past and are practically completed. Even when the Constitutional Court's report for this year was mentioned, the individual violations of the Constitution or of human rights in our Constitution, which were found at the time of the work of the Constitutional Court in 2016, essentially all of these findings relate to violations that were committed five, six, seven, eight years ago, because we know at what time, through regular courts, the Supreme Court comes the case before the Constitutional Court. In fact, I got a feeling in this debate, which was more or less unconvincing with arguments, not at all substantive on this side, but more like what I say, negotiating with some incomplete, inaccurate, misleading information cities, especially by ignoring the important objective facts that everyone sees, and you can read them in the reports of the authorities of this country, our common country, including yours, which you so uncritically criticise. This, however, is because Mr Mahnic has said some quotations, extracts from the fact that our discussions of public officials as well, our public statement can have a significant impact on the perception of the public, which also affects confidence in the country, its institutions, judicial authorities and so on. You know, and today whoever wanted to hear this, the confidence of the public, the wider and the narrower ones, who have direct experience with justice in Slovenia, is somehow identified in three elements. One is called procedural justice, the other is distributive justice, and the third is efficiency. distributive justice in other words means the feeling of people, the public, how systems work. This feeling is certainly shaped by us, who are in these positions of responsibility, with our discussions. If you ignore huge or large majority of the facts that mean good practices, good trends, positive things, and talk about only one fraction of the bad ones that are bad, and you need to be able to respond and be responsible, and especially to take some systemic measures to ensure that such things do not occur in the future, that is essentially in some way manipulation, and this is unacceptable to me and therefore I do not want to participate in such a debate, because it is infertile and is harmful to this community. I'm pretty sure of that. This ignorance of your important progress in development is also the justice of our society, and your manipulative lies, obviously false statements, and this I will now support, important people, because in logic and reason there are also mistakes, so-called mental errors. One of the important errors is an error conditioned by authority or by confirmation of error. And that's just it. Because we have our own beliefs, our own views, our own theories, we don't want to hear all the facts that these beliefs actually deny us in some way. It's the same with authority. When an important expert, not named of course, academically, or a major politician, says something, this is what you want or do not want to limit the freedom of opinion and the courage of those in the same group to say something that is obviously true, but does not go in the context of some position the opposition has to take on power in this case, and I do not know what to make an impression that everything is wrong. That's too bad. That's what I had in mind the last time Mr Mahnic said, and I think so today. Now, I'm going to make a few concrete cases to argue that this is a matter of manipulation that is harmful to our community. In view of the function of all of us, but especially of the members of the opposition. See, since 2013, as far as banking, economic crime is concerned, which is still part of the judicial laws or the procedures that remain to be followed by this very major, gradual, soft reform. That's how the builders see it. That's what they told you today on the Justice Committee. These laws, or these things, have happened now in three years, but they are not in the past ten years. Even though you had a four-year chance in 2012. Mrs Dimičeva said nicely, the Council of Justice, now it has been passed a law giving him some authority to independently identify and supervise the work of the courts, because it is the third branch of power. We are the second, executive branch. We can't judge here in front of the cameras, whether now someone has done something right or done something wrong. That's why we have the legal remedies, we have the instantaneousness, we have the Constitutional Court. Sometimes, if you disagree with something, you just have to accept it. That's why it's a system. And this system works. It has been well said today, we have 13% of the complaints, 2.6% of the first-degree rulings have been annulled, which is a positive trend systemicly, that there are significantly less complaints now at the second stage, which means that decisions of the first stage are likely to be so justified and convincing that one or the other party sees no point in the complaint. And that's systemic progress. These are the responsibilities and responsibilities of the executive branch of power. But it's not like I'm going to say here now, if this person A did something wrong, because I don't have the data, and it's irresponsible. However, the fact that a judgment is final and just means that it is in conformity with the law, reasonable and reasonable, that it attracts everyone in that people on whose behalf it is judged to be in fact fair in view of the example or actual state of affairs — which you can only see from the explanation. That is why we are working to ensure that all the judgments, from the first stage to the Supreme Court, are now only a few higher judgments published by the Supreme Court. And then this has a systemic impact on the uniform practice. This is a normal phenomenon and these numbers that I have told you, 13% of the complaints, 2.6% of the cancellations, this is completely comparable to the European Union or with those countries with which we are in the same supranational community. And now working from these individual cases, which are all of them from a time when ours wasn't even here, that everything sucks, seems irresponsible and inappropriate to me. I'd like to stress that very much because I think that's true. This is how I see it, and therefore I do not want to discuss it in a transparent way and respond to these things that are redundancies and are essentially not related to reality, which can have an important impact on the system that will be even better. It's not as bad as you show it, but it's anomalies. That's why there's something else to be done. I'll also mention the CAP. At the four points of the witness hearing, another thesis was established that the social weaknesses would be worse. This is a typical example of why nothing has changed in this area. Because most people don't want to, and they don't want to. All these claims are unrealistic. Whoever read these articles, whoever went deeper or asked the expert, not the superficial, unnamed one, some academic expert told me, but I don't want to name him, because he didn't let me, whoever read it, I'll simplify it, he understands that two plus two is four. Today no member of the camera will speak to the people and two plus two voters is one because everyone in this civilizational age and the development of humanity will know that this is not the case. But he can say, uh, this CAP is more inconvenient for the socially weak. How embarrassing it can be if we now have a system that none of the suspects in front of the police has the right to an attorney, unless they can afford it, choose it and pay it, and we propose that now, by official duty, everyone should have it if it comes to crimes over 8 years, all minors, all dumb, deaf and all those who, because of their position, cannot understand their position before the state authority. No one's got it now, and then they'll have it all at once, I don't know, 5,000. How can this be a worse situation for the weaker? I've never heard that before. Except for the flossule, it's weaker. How can one claim that now the situation of the inquisitorial state, if now the police or the prosecutors, are only three countries in Europe, is going to be regulated for 20 years or more, and everyone is also surprised at the European Court of Justice when they have problems, this is a sui generis, an official note of the citizens' messages collected, is being called reading these things. And you are opposed to regulating the matter more procedurally just, to make it more transparent, transparent and post-festums also detectable, in the form of a minutes, to talk and then to sign. And you're obstructing these things, not just against them. And all of this is intended to make the procedures more efficient, not in the sense that everyone will be condemned, but that fair and fair decisions will be made more quickly and easier in all stages of the process. These two thesaurus have been established and they are all against it now, it is difficult to understand, except in this political line, because we do not want to contribute to what we would like to do or have not done in the past, but there have been huge opportunities. None of these measures have been adopted. Topics, problems, challenges have been the same for 15 years. That is why this debate is difficult for me to accept in this way, because there is no content other than some flossules. At the same time, I would like to stress this, which I do not think is right. The bank hole originated from 2004 to 2009 or until 2010, as it does not matter. It is important that at that time these cases were not discovered to the extent that they could be processed, given the magnitude of the phenomenon and the criminality problem. Since the end of 2013 and 2014, the police have initiated predictive procedures and issued 250 criminal complaints by the end of 2015. It's during this government. However, at that time, from 2015 until today, the prosecution was able to convince the court, i.e. the investigating judge, that it had instituted legal investigations into the suspicion of a hundred people, against a hundred accused, and that 46 accused had already been tried by the court in those two years and that they had been prosecuted. So the procedures have already begun. How this is now going in the context of Mr Janša's statement that the police and the judicial authorities have done nothing. “We’re in 2012, my government” he said, “we gave a report from the Bank of Slovenia and nothing happened”. What is it now? Is it some other system, numerical, counting or how? Is this deceiving in the context of what goes beyond your theory, which you represent, which is legitimate to come into power, but not in a way that is constructive, but with destructive, misleading. You are saying something with false information, and by doing so, you are further reducing the reputation of all those who are working in all these bodies in order to make everyone work better together. That's unacceptable to me. That is why I am not taking part in these debates and I am no longer responding. And an example, for example, given by Mr Janša for Mr Zorčič. He is so shamelessly discussing his own case, Patria. I understand that he was hurt that he was wrong. But so in the role of Member he speaks of his own case and then to the case of Mr Zorčič, who is very well founded and also very professionally very convincing to say something that you did not want to hear in the context of ignorance, and you said you would make an indictment. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, wait, if you don't mind. Can you do that? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u83	Can we all listen? We can listen to each other. In democracy, everyone can talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u84	What Mr Janša said is on the tape anyway, you'll all be able to read. When I heard that, I was terrified because I thought of two things. Either in this function of yours, you are politically manipulating or you do not fully understand the functioning of the justice system and the rule of law. If I do not understand this assumption to begin with or conclude my thoughts, then I understand how you can, not by mentioning today six, seven cases of potential violations of the judiciary and some of the judges who have read them from the articles and cases there, then I understand how you may have accepted the ZUJF, that you have violated the Constitution with one law and 20 thousand people have been affected by their rights, and I understand how you adopted ZEKOM in 2006 and that you have invaded the communication privacy of thousands of users, that the Constitutional Court has had to abolish it, and I also understand how you personally and your Deputy Prime Minister signed the regulation by which you, contrary to the law, have allowed public companies, municipalities, institutions owned by municipalities, legal persons, to sell financial assets, businesses without prior appreciation. And the Court of Auditors has given you this explicit warning, but you have disregarded it. You once again made another addition to the regulation in 2007 and then the Constitutional Court had to say that this was the opposite. And it devours the substrate of this society, the property. Because - do you know who's setting up the director? Probably through his one who's in the government. And that probably wasn't a coincidence. That makes it very difficult for me to listen to these things that have been around for a long time and you haven't done them. Look, we've done a lot in three years, we could do more if we were even more capable, but we did the right thing, as trends and results show. And the wills. I've already told you, wills, this is simply a difficult thing to accept, especially for the one who was deprived of it. But I told you in the debate then the dimension of this problem. This was the number of thousands, and something else, I am now speaking from memory, from 1991 onward, assuming that the reform in 1994, 44 courts, was 1.1 wills to one court at an annual level. It's aggregated. It's human for everyone, and it's unacceptable. When this was established in 2015, systemic measures were taken and it was just last week that we received a report from the Supreme Court, because we expected it and demanded it in the past, that this case is no longer in 2015. This is an important systemic measure for us, and it has ensured that people, including trustees, are more secure in this context. It is interesting, however, and it was interesting for me and at the same time shocking that in 2006 and 2005, when the Notariat Act, the novel you adopted was prescribed by a mandatory central register of will and it was written in a transitional provision that all judicially protected or deposited wills, plus legal and notary wills, must arrive within two months in this register. And that's when they didn't come, interesting. On the contrary. An official under one of your ministers gave an interpretation contrary to the law that it did not have to be put in. If we put that in, we should see that the wills, the ones that were actually founded, are founded. So that's what's left under the rug. But when that came to pass, we solved it. But this could have been resolved by then, and logically and spontaneously, it would have to be because that marriage was formed. That is why I find it difficult to accept these criticisms, which can be justified on a case-by-case basis, but in this way it does not seem appropriate to me. That is why, Mr Tanko, I do not respond anymore and do not interfere with individual matters, because it seems infertile to me. You don't want to hear what doesn't go in your context. I'm sorry, that's right, and I have the right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u85	He still has the word [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no. Wait. We're in the middle of a government opinion, which, I think, is indivisible. But okay. He's got an advantage in the process. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. What Mr Stare has just said, Mr President, is not in the opinion of the Government, which was sent to the National Assembly. The government has tried to respond to some of the things we have given, but not even what Mr Stare said is in the government's opinion. However, I would like you to point out to Mr Staret and his Minister Klemenčič that when they were at the KPK, the Court of Auditors found violations of 8 laws and 3 regulations and of a whole type of contracts, conclusion, breaches of the Public Finance Act, implementation of the budget and so on. The Court of Auditors' report, Mr President, please deliver to him that he will read what was found there. Clearly, those who are the main violators and are rewarded with functions now explain how the rule of law must work. They're the ones. And here you are teaching us what cases we are explaining or not explaining. You're lying, Mr. Old. Not me, you're lying because our cases are standing. Everybody. With none of the opinions you've written in the government, you've found that there's nothing wrong with him. And you came here to defend the government's position and the government's opinion, not something else. That's how it is. And please warn him. I told you earlier in the introduction to my debate that the government has nothing to do with the extraordinary meetings or the recommendations we make. He can make his amendments to what we have put in, and so on. However, in the opinion that our recommendations undermine the foundations of the country, this is a fundamental ignorance of the constitutional regime, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the functions of the institutions in which we are, yours and yours. You're here and you come with materials that are essentially the work materials of the National Assembly. These are the laws of the government that come to the National Assembly. If, Mr President, you give the gentlemen sitting on the government side there what opinion, let's say, from a package of building laws, they should read what they are violating. They have been involved in many matters, including personal matters, in cases of violations. You too, Mr. Old. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u87	What does this have to do with procedure? He's got nothing to do with the procedure. I have to perform this function here in particular, in order to respect the rules of procedure. Our rules of procedure are relatively clear in this regard, but you have used this procedurally here to attack the Government because it has an opinion, which I believe is a permissible matter in democracy, and this opinion can also be expressed. Certainly the government is at this point, at least Mr Stare has no chance of answering, but I will continue from where we are. I will give the floor to the Master of the Spring Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior, still at the time of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u88	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will also start my implementation there, as we have heard many times today, that the purpose of today's session is certainly not to deal with open cases or cases that are any kind of matter of court. Of course, systemic errors, systemic shortcomings are something you can talk about, but today I am not sure that we are mostly in this sphere. With regard to specific human rights violations, we also know what the procedures are if these violations occur. Of course, the National Assembly is a legislative body and cannot interfere with the work of the courts, as we have heard many times today. We know what the constitutional principle of the division of power means. The judiciary is independent, and open cases are by no means a matter for discussion. But there is another dimension that I think is very important. With confidence in Parliament as the highest representative body, in the case of discussions such as today, it can also be reversed, because Parliament is somehow turning into a place to solve problems which are mostly of a professional nature, but we know that Parliament has a much higher mission. This is general social affairs, however, which go beyond [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u89	The government never speaks when you speak. Never. You have to admit that to her. It's only on your side that you speak when the government speaks. Please, you can continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u90	Thank you. As it is said, specific matters cannot certainly be the subject of today's debate, but I will respond to some key points. Member, if I am not mistaken, Mahnic put aside a case, or case, that has been in the public eye for the past week and referred to Ambassador Logar. Here it has to be said that it was actually the case here that, according to the actual state of affairs, the crime of the threat is suspected, which we want or do not want, is being pursued on a proposal. This is a procedural assumption for which the Criminal Procedure Act stipulates that there must be, in order for the prosecution to begin at all, and in fact it is not possible to change that. However, this case has absolutely nothing to do with the forecast of protests concerning the situation in Spain. Here, however, it was a purely actual verification of information from open sources, which I do not think can be any problem and there can be no problem. It's Kangler if I stop here. It is interesting that today we are discussing this, given that I am not mistaken, just on 30 August 2012 the supervision of Minister Gorenak was determined. The Directorate which carried out this supervision also found that there was in fact no maladministration in obtaining evidence and that the Minister had not issued any guidance in this regard. I am therefore surprised today that we are actually discussing this today. As for Magain, however, there is no indication that there has been no response to what has actually happened in this matter. In the framework of its supervisory activity, the Ministry Directorate responsible for the systematic direction and supervision of the police found that certain professional errors were mainly committed by handling seized items but that they did not affect the legality of the procedure. The police carried out legal proceedings against their employees. However, it is clear from the judgment that the court did not in fact contest the findings of the police. So I hope that we have now explained these essential findings concerning specific matters. Maybe I'll keep talking a little bit wider, and then I'll go back to the police, given that the police in the department belong to us. I agree, given that prosecution is in the public interest and that the country's criminal policy must not only be based on efficiency but also on some technical concept, it must also be proportionate and also adequate to the social reality, because it is only by doing so that the repressive response can be effective and appropriate. Only in this case can this chain of righteousness, that is, from detection, persecution, judgment, be in a position to serve its purpose. I think it is also clear from the debate before me that the discourse resulting from the absolute mistrust of both the work of the detection and the work of the law enforcement and prosecution bodies will certainly not achieve any profit. This is where I completely agree. Even if we take the view that there is still room for manoeuvre or some positive upgrade of the state's current policy in the area of dealing with crime. Slovenia is a democratic country, Slovenia has a good criminal justice system, and in any case it still ceases the democratic test. We know that there are appellant reasons for violating the law on criminal proceedings because they must exist. There is an institution for the elimination of illegal evidence, the rules here are perfectly clear, regardless of whether the penal system is a living substance or as we have heard today, it is in fact a state's immune system for dealing with rejection. But in no case should people's confidence in power be the basis for any political manipulation, because it creates a very severe psychological burden for society as a whole. I also believe that the direction on people's mistrust in justice is not right, because justice is an extremely important building block of social cohesion, because we know how things are going. Legislation lays down the legal order and it is the judiciary which must ensure its enforcement. Such a risk of human-country linkages is certainly not in place, and I wonder who it would be in the interest of. I don't think even political parties should be interested because it leads to disintegration. Today we have heard quite a few words about the police. In particular, it must be made clear here that according to the Criminal Procedure Act it is the police who are bound to act in accordance with the principle of legality. We know what that means. Where there are grounds for suspicion that a crime is to be committed, i.e. as a minimum level of probability, those measures shall be taken to either track down the perpetrator or provide evidence of a potential criminal procedure. It's the police's duty. The police have no opportunity to follow the principle of opportunity in order to assess the prudence of the procedure. We do know, however, that the forecasting procedures are actually those that determine the outcome of criminal proceedings, but in any case it is in the interest of the police that the procedure is legal because we know, if it is not, that the evidence is later eliminated. The law on criminal proceedings is perfectly clear here. The standards of police work in any case are professionalism, legality, professionalism, because it is certainly a great value and a guaranteed function of criminal law through the direction of the prosecutor and also through judicial supervision, that is something which is extremely important. However, the fact is that the police deal with 70,000 criminal proceedings annually, and then there are almost half a million criminal proceedings. I'm sure there will be a mistake sometimes, for sure, but I think the police are also taking responsibility for their mistakes, and that's the way they are, and that's how they react and learn from these mistakes. This is also our direction that whenever evidence is eliminated in court proceedings, groups are formed and examined in the police force to see why this has happened so that such proceedings do not occur in the future. Of course, it is also not negligible that the Ombudsman has always praised the high response of the police. The police have also responded to all initiatives, and it is not surprising that the European Committee for the Prohibition of Torture has also been identified in this year's police supervision, and in fact the police have been commended for treating people deprived of their liberty and who also respect human rights. Today, we have also heard a great deal about confidence in the judicial authorities, law enforcement authorities and, more recently, detection bodies. I have to say, trust in the police is not falling. The survey carried out in 2016 also shows that nearly 70% of respondents are trusted by the police. There is also growing confidence in the police profession, which is certainly positive, not only in the institution, but also in all areas of police work, that it is responsive, that it is professional and that it respects human rights. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be for the future. Since 2016, ensuring internal security is also the task of the police. I think the perspective is definitely positive and going in the right direction. Today we have also heard again about some media reverberations. There was another talk of a coup d'état. We know it didn't happen and it won't happen. I have explained many times in the past, and today I will again, because this seems very important to me. Housework. Domestic investigations in any case, regardless of where they are carried out, i.e. house investigations as an investigative act, is the Institute of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is carried out on the basis of predetermined conditions. It shall be decided by the court with a reasoned written order. My colleague Stara has already started something in the direction of the importance and severity of the reasoned decisions. This is not just because today somehow feels like the police are calling the prosecutor, the prosecutor calls the judge, and in two days we're probably in the courtroom. We know it doesn't work that easy. It is also misleading to believe that the house investigation, what has been said today, can only be carried out at the premises of the person in the procedure. The law on criminal proceedings is very clear here, referring to an investigation into the apartment or other premises of the accused or other person. Of course, all of this is linked to a very important evidence standard. These are legitimate grounds for suspicion. The police actually don't enter the premises like they said here today. without an order, only when a person calls for help or receives an offender or an act of tyranny. I think it is important that this is also clarified, as well as the fact that the forecasting procedure primarily serves the Attorney General to decide whether or not he will pursue a particular person. It's the D.A. who's directing the police, too. As far as the relationship between the Ministry of the Interior and the Police is concerned, there is certainly no political abuse here and we cannot talk about it. In specific forecasting procedures, the Minister does not direct the police because the Law on Organising and Working in the Police clearly distinguishes the political dimension from the operational dimension, and this is precisely to ensure that the policy does not interfere with the operational work of the police, at least in my mandate it does not interfere and will not interfere because I would not allow it. At the same time, I think that every smart Minister of the Interior knows that when the police follow the law on criminal proceedings, he has to put his hands up because if he interferes with specific predictive procedures, we know what it is. It's an abuse of position and it's a crime. Today there was talk about how it was possible for the police to enter the premises of the government or the National Assembly. I'm going to do it again, given that it obviously didn't happen in previous periods. The house investigation at the premises of the public authorities is specifically regulated in the Criminal Procedure Act, but not by any specific conditions for their application. It is only specified that the chairman shall be invited to attend the investigation, which has also been done in accordance with the law. However, we have repeatedly said that if there is a political will to make the law specifically stipulate that one can enter these premises only if one, either the committee or the President of the National Assembly, or the prosecutor, has to change the law. But the important thing is that we do not oppose it and in any case, or the police will act in any way as legislation will. I cannot agree with the thesis that, as was said today, if I correctly wrote down that the police were to abuse the state prosecutor's office and then the judiciary was correcting these mistakes. I think that this thesis is highly fanciful and is not possible, given our systemic arrangements, because the path from an initiative or a proposal by the police or the state prosecutor through the collection of evidence to a criminal indictment and then to an indictment is a very complicated process, which is entangled in a cascading evidence standard, which also has a guarantee function, given the intensity of interference with human rights. The police acts under the Criminal Procedure Act are subject to the examination of the legal conditions for their use, and the State Prosecutor also weighs the evidence attached by the police to the criminal charges, and directs the police, as was said, in the proposal of the State Prosecutor, to specify the specific circumstances and facts on the basis of which the investigating judge or the judge decides that there is sufficient likelihood that the offence has been committed. In any case, however, as my colleague Stara has said, these decisions must be substantively and specifically justified in terms of the mandatory elements of the decision, because this is not going well. If these formalistic elements are fulfilled by law, then the actual abuse, as we are talking about today, cannot be a basic argument, since the reasoned proposals of the authorities before the court do not mean that the judge is then obliged to assess the existence of legal conditions. So today we are really talking and I think that this is extremely harmful, because every violation of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act is not an abuse, nor is it a basis for the identification of evidence, because the standards of human rights violations that determine when the trial is fair, when it is not fair, are very clearly produced. Therefore, this is absolutely not the case for police to abuse or direct the prosecution, because this is not even systematically possible, and the police themselves do not bring the acts before the court, as well as the judicial files, the prosecution's files, in fact distinguish the stage of the proposal from the decision-making phase. Both must be reasoned, and they are by no means categories that are flat-rate, abstract. And that's actually what it's supposed to be about whether these organs are abused. If the actors of the criminal system were to work arbitrarily, if they were to work without justification, if they were to work without a decision, even though the law, as a representative of the State, imposed on them this very clear claim and evidentiary burden, which is also traceable, then they could talk about some systemic abuse. Today we have not heard any evidence that could in fact still be classified within the framework of legitimate criticism. The discussion was also about certain specific irregularities of certain police officers. I have to say here that in these cases the police are already instituting an internal protective investigation. The Director-General of the Police has ordered supervision, one person has been banned from doing business, the other has received a warning before his resignation, and none of these persons are in the police anymore. However, I will conclude by stopping at an observation which has been repeated recently or in the last period in preparation for this meeting, in relation to Mr Funk. Mr Funk has not been rewarded, Mr Funk has, on my part, been proposed as Director-General of the Police, because I believe that he is a career policeman, that he is a top criminalist, who also leads the Police through high professional standards throughout the term of office, as evidenced by the very good results of the Slovenian police.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u91	The text is now delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Make it quick. Secretary of State, you were talking about some old cases. Let's go in order. Vaskrsić – 2017. 2017 has decided the ECHR. Kangler – 2017 has dropped the latest cases. Chitec – 2015. Magajna – 2017. Jelinčič – 2015. Bratušek – 2017. Patria – 2017. Jankovic – 2017. New city, that lady being thrown out of the apartment – 2017. Kretec — 2017. Your Minister's certificate – 2017. So these are new cases, not old cases. ZKP, don't say things that don't hold, because you haven't convinced the professional public, you haven't convinced New Slovenia, not us, not SD and not pensioners. The Popov thing, if you want. The vices. You're talking about the year 2000. You haven't read it since 1991. I don't have much time. Look, you sometimes know "by a man," it's called hitting a table at the right time. The case is the CAP. And I'm grateful that you sincerely do what you think is right, but now you're simply going into a field that doesn't hold, and you're being naive. Specific matters cannot be dealt with in the DZ. It's not up to you, it's not the president of the National Assembly. He decides on these matters and today it has been heard by the coalition that we are talking about the real themes. I don't know why you're saying that now. Brankovic said it was some kind of public source because the police went to him. Yeah, why did she convince me in 2012 that they couldn't go, say, to those who were organizers of the protests? And they kept saying they couldn't, but they couldn't prosecute the organizers. They give you double standards. You're saying I didn't give any direction. You know exactly what I mean. You know exactly how you can't give direction for a specific case. You even said yourself it would be a crime to intervene. Otherwise, I gave a number of directions, probably in one year mostly among ministers, who also dealt with matters such as Maribor and Kangler. Of course they touched him. You mentioned Mr Magajna, and you said the court didn't object. Yeah, what does a court have to do if you lose a hard drive and then lose a copy? But look, the gentleman who lost it was rewarded. He became the head of the criminal police of the state of Slovenia. But when I was a minister, he asked for relief because he can't run things in Ljubljana. In my time, he has asked me for relief, he is unable to lead Ljubljana, he has serious obligations. But when you came, he became the general criminal police. But he lost the discs, the hard drives, in his time, his job lost it. D.Z.'s reputation is declining. Look, you don't judge that. You take care of the MNZ and the police and so on, and here we will count the results after the elections and you will see how much reputation the National Assembly loses, no matter how much. The House Investigation Units. Don't paint me, copy-paint me with verbal errors, the court makes a copy-paint of a police proposal, but then dumps it in. I face these cases every day. Who's directing whom? They're not checking anything, and these aren't high standards at all. Do what the police say. You're saying there's no police abuse. Let's clear this up in half a minute. If the Constitutional Court has said that the Patria trial was conducted in contravention of Article 28 of the Constitution, which speaks of the fact that no one can be tried and cannot be tried before, and so on, what the police have done, because of an act which is not an offence. So the police are long ahead of you and have begun to deal with this case, which is not a crime. That's what the Constitutional Court said. Yeah, then what do you call it if it's not an abuse? Then what is it? As for the matter of whether the prosecution directs the police, and in the five minutes I'll get them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u93	I think that means we want to share time. Before applying, I would like to point out that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If one of the representatives of the motion for a recommendation and a representative of the Government or a representative wishes to discuss it, please also apply by pressing the microphone button. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative or representative of the Government, then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u94	Thank you very much, President. In fact, I will only take this opportunity because at the time the replica was on the replica of Mr Gorenak, because I do not want to be misunderstood. When I quoted your statement, I did not say that you were Minister on 31 March 2013, but that the statement was published on the Siol website on 31 March 2013. But something else is much more important. In the paper, you said that in the case of Vaskrissić, there was an abuse of the judicial branch of power, that this case abused its position. And I'm saying it's not like that. Also based on your lecture and your quote on the Siol website. The case of Vaskrsić is not a result of the abuse of the judiciary, but is a consequence of legislation. Legislation allowing the creditor to sit on the debtor's property for a further EUR 145 and that the European Court of Human Rights already sees this part of the legislation as a disproportionate measure. That is why I have also pointed out in my debate that it does not seem right for me that all derogations within the judiciary are understood and perceived as a human factor, where there is a systemic conspiracy trying to prove through various theories, but, above all, as the legislative branch of power, we need to understand the perception of deviations within the judicial system. Also, the Vaskrsić case schedule or any other similar case you mentioned, the case of the New City, including the plot that led to these unjust solutions, also through the legislation in force. That was also my point of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u95	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u96	It's the most beautiful hall. Too bad at the end there are manipulators who are wasting lies and trying to present to the public that everything is okay. I'm not talking about you, Comrade Tabakovic, but we're on our way. The first case, colleague Matić confuses someone who was in the former system in a party, with officials of the State Security Service, and this tries to compare with East Germany. It's completely illogical. The next thing you did, Minister, was talk, so everything's fine. I have been talking today about systemic errors that have been identified by foreign authorities or abroad in the Slovenian judicial system. I started with a theory, the Rehbock case, the Mother case, it's a police violence that was not recognized by the Slovenian judicial system, then medical errors, then we come up with the Lukend case, today three times repeat, and also the SMC Members, how we got essentially the commendation. Yes, well, thank you, Mr. Janša and his team have begun to run the Lukend program with Dr. Lover Sturm. And the results show up after years. The other thing, Mr Matić, is that Mr Janša didn't want to do the lustration. December 10th, 1997. Here falls the resolution of the European Parliament on totalitarianism in 1996 and the law of 10 December, if colleague Matić still hears me, wherever he is, it was Wednesday, to say another day, Wednesday, 10 December 1997, the lustration falls. Of course it's falling. If this law were to be declared on this side by some people, not on this side, not here in this room, but some people would no longer be present. We are talking about the summit of the former communist system, I am talking about former members of the State Security Service, who do not have a place in normal democratic societies. I was talking about the Kangler case today. Another thing Dr. Fisherman is, is a man who the left-hand man trusts most. What did he write in the Kangler case? Some other violations of the defendant's rights: doubts about the low evidentiary standards for determining hidden investigative measures; too long and illegal hearings and their copying, as also found by the KNOVS, and their application after the deadlines laid down; enforcement of the witness in the investigation of Frank Kangler's apartment; suspicion that anonymous letters were created in the police direction, respected minister; and an unaccounted-for executive opinion now by the late Happy Pušnik, who prepared him for the defendant and so on; political justification for the decisions, I have said, the Secretary of State is here from the Ministry of Justice, “for Mr. Kangler, there is a great danger of returning to politics”. This is the judge's ruling. Do you think that's normal? Rejection of defence proposals for the execution of evidence and questioning of witnesses. The case of Mojet. From a completely different political option she literally wants to testify, and Judge Breda Fibbas, her husband is also a former member of the State Security Service, this is all normal for us in Styria, and now she is everywhere in Slovenia, says she will not hear a witness, so we are talking about the equality of weapons because she “will not know anything new”. She hasn't heard from him yet, and she says she doesn't need to know because she won't know anything. And you think that's normal? Mr Bosnjak, who was Mr Kangler's lawyer, is today a judge at the ECHR. Will we wait for the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights or will we act in these matters? The immune system doesn't work in this country. Continuation. My colleague Verbic reminded me today of the most likely catastrophic judgment coming. The Grand Chamber is dealing with the removal of legal persons. Financial experts are talking about more than a billion damages to these people. Are you going to stop the matter or not? Will you prepare some legislation? Probably not. Mr Stare, you will be relevant when you provide the data, what the KPK has said about what you did when you received the documents on the NLB money laundering suspicion on the table. What did you do then, and what didn't you do? That was your job. And then we'll see if this country's immune system works. You and the other 95 people who were familiar with the suspicion of money laundering in the NLB. Then we'll see if this country's immune system works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u97	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u98	Thank you for saying that again. I do not think that this meeting today has contributed to some constructive conclusions as to how we need to change our justice so that there will be no cases as we have seen them. I also often agree with my colleagues from the SDS, for example when considering the Criminal Procedure Act. I'm one of those people that I think should be arranged somehow differently. I believe that the adoption of such a law is also a place where Members of Parliament can make some constructive proposals, some amendments that actually lead to the fact that the proceedings before the courts are such that it is optimal and does not lead to some of the fiascos that we have witnessed in the past. Other developed countries are also witnesses to them, but I do not want to apologize to anyone, but I do think that today's session has only led to one single language being found to solve matters in the future. I have also heard Mr Janša's debate on our mandates, the mandates of the Group of Members of the Modern Centre. I have heard this debate many times from other SDS colleagues, and I will say so. If anyone seems to have a disputed mandate from anyone in this National Assembly, let me remind you that on 1 August 2014 we confirmed the mandates of all Members. At that time, all SDS members confirmed all the mandates, so that these debates on the illegality of mandates are totally inappropriate. Last but not least, if that were to hold what you're saying, then someone who had an illegal mandate would confirm your mandate. We can get involved, that's perfectly absurd, what you're saying. Comrade Breznik, I admire the many information we have received in the debates. I'm the only one who doesn't know. Maybe sometimes he should focus and check each other out. Today I heard Martin Luther King put certain thesis on the church. I don't know if it's true. And I don't know where they are, whether they're in Atlanta or any other country in America. But it seems to me that 400 years earlier, Martin Luther was in Germany. But if we're saying that I'm operating on certain data, I would suggest that we're as accurate as we can be, and not least, I'll sometimes erase one of you to make a mistake about a word. Well, one of the surprises is that I heard from the Minister that certain things were done in the Kangler case under Mr Gorenak's mandate and that it was found that there were no irregularities. This additionally sheds one bad light on demand for today’s session. But look, I won't be surprised at anything. If I mentioned Martin Lutra King earlier, I did find a quote that might be in place today for the conclusion of this session. He says so, and let me conclude with it, but let me only refer to this session: “In the end, we will not remember the words of opposers, but the silence of friends.” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u99	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I'm not going to say hello again, considering there's a handful of us in here. First of all, I must admit that I am quite pleased in some way that I am in the composition of the SMC Group, which is internally very democratic. For this reason, I also allow myself certain comments. Whether my fellow Members like it or not, I'm just going through it. But this is a reflection of democracy and it is also right to discuss it in the National Assembly and also in the Home Committees. It has been exposed here, the legislative branch of power, or in the debate, in particular as it is today, we intervene in the autonomous branch of power, in which case the judiciary knows the authorities. The fact is that some of the cases that have been exposed to debates and proposals themselves, I myself have somehow broadened and have made a well-meaning comment that I am much more concerned with the cases that have resulted in not so much back-up mass damage to citizens and citizens. I will not re-explain which cases have indeed been committed in the past by decisions of the courts, which have also been concluded. But as a result, many of those participants had a personal breakdown of life, many lost their real estate, and in the final stage they were known for their health. For this reason, I think it is right to point out such things so that in the future as few such events as possible would not happen. I must also say to the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Justice, however, that I personally assess that I had at least a little substantive debate because you said: "There was no substantive debate today at all." Discussions that have also been raised today in connection with the bank hole, because you know, I would like to, and also more often at every opportunity, expose economic crime, financial crime. Whether the executive branch of power and the judicial branch of power are aware that this is extremely painful, for in the end accounts are presented to taxpayers. And I think that it is one of the key duties of Members to give this a prompt warning. Speaking when the bank hole was created, I think it's really just a politically-popular rhetoric that doesn't matter anymore at the end of the day. It is important that all activities go beyond detection, because I think this case is already a passport, and the Secretary of State has said nicely, in hundreds of motions, but then here is the question of where the law enforcement authorities are, that then this is also happening in the courts. We have very clear information that two matters are decided, and we know what will follow, given that we have regular and extraordinary legal remedies. But it is essential in this respect that all actors who are legally competent do not happen and that it will not happen due to an expiry of proceedings or, above all, so-called legal voids, that all of this will go wrong. I think this is our key mission, and we still have to work on it. Finally, when said by the representatives of the executive branch, any such debate in the National Assembly has a negative impact on the so-called reputation of the judiciary. Here I have to admit that I am very far away from this because I do not agree with it. Those of us who were on the Justice Home Committee today were very interesting, and I also allowed myself a brief comment to make. The reality is that the leadership of the judiciary presented and also spoke about how in this so-called professional public and everything related to it is a very good opinion, as far as the judiciary is concerned. Interestingly, though, there is a wide variety of opinions among people. It is said that something simply here does not go together the most. For every judgment has an interesting title in the name of the people. And the fact is, let's be objective about these things. It'll be an opportunity, I'm sure. Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u101	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Make it quick. Mr Tabaković, all you know is that, in that case, a judge, if he thought there was something wrong with the law, he could have stopped the proceedings and gone to the Constitutional Court, and he didn't. That's what we need to know. Otherwise, Minister, why are you naive and why the police direct the prosecution and not the other way around? Just an example, quickly in 2012, seized computer equipment Kovacič, Maribor, NKBM. We both know how to review it, if you don't know, look, I know. In keywords. And since criminals have given the key words “Kovačič, Janša”, Dnevnik has already published “Janša has made a deal with Kovacic” a few days later. It's his fault, not his. However, because they did not give the key words “Kovačič, Pahor”, nothing was written about it. Did the D.A. know about this? He didn't know. He didn't know. When Kovacic answered and said, "Wait a minute, but I communicated with Pahor more than Janša!" And it was quiet. So who's directing whom? The prosecution's criminals. That's right. The law says otherwise. Look. That's what I'm talking about. If you don't put the keywords in there, it didn't happen. You're nodding, Secretary of State. Not "paint" the minister. Sometimes, though, she still has a knack for correctness and honesty, and don't spoil it. Let's move on. The purpose of today's debate was relatively clear, and I am pleased that some coalition Members have also come to realize this. Is it fair or unfair that someone for 250 euros, technical reviews of Kranj, gets 3 years in prison, unconditional. At the same time, someone who spent a million and a half years hurting Impol gets two years probationary. So we have first-class and second-class? Yes, we do. Our aim was to draw attention to the decisions of the judiciary in the case of Mr Türk, who received a thousand 500 euros in illegal donations for the elections, and the donor received a reminder. At the same time, you have Mr Fištrovec, who was given 100 euros by a company, the same law was broken, and this society received 5,000 euros in fines. Is that fair? It's not fair. Let's leave the law. But it's not fair. Our aim was to draw attention to the Vaskrsić case or even more to what happened in New Town ten days ago, where some women are selling apartments in the bloc because it owes 350 euros. At the same time, the same system for Jankovic’s company or those companies will then write off 16 million. We write down 16 million dollars, but for 350 euros a woman's bill on the road. Well, she didn't go on the road because I told her myself that I would pay for that money just so she wouldn't go on the road. Well, then they withdrew the execution. When she gets here, I don't know. Our intention was to point out that the courts are investigating Kangler by law on a proposal from the prosecution. For a 35-year-old tractor, he has to prove where he bought it and where he got the money for it. Tell me when the Slovenian courts asked where three billion are. Did these courts ask Jankovic? Nothing. On the contrary. Kangler was tried with more than two years old earrings made during your golden director, by the way. While Jankovic was destroyed in the same way. Do we have first-class and second-class? Yes, we do. So that's our purpose. But if you're the minister's father-in-law, you kick your neighbor's ass and you hurt him physically, I mean your Minister Klemenčič – what is it? Nothing. You say to the injured man, "You know what, you'll be in the grave long before the court sentences me." This is the reality of our case. My husband is 87 years old. Nothing's happened yet. So we have first-class, second-class? Yes, we do. I want a repeat of this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u103	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also 49. It's an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I think that, today, by action in the National Assembly, in our case, this means, above all, by speaking, we have proved that we know how to do something smart and that we do not know what to leave behind. Good night!
