ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Anita Koleša from 18:00 on, Andreja Potočnik, Irene Grošelj Kosnik, Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, mag. Tanja Zink, Tink Lach, Dr. Franc Trček, Peter Wilfan, Ivan Hršak, Franz Breznik, Roberto Battelli, Ivan Škodnik, Danilo Anton Ranc, Ivan Prelog, Marjan Dolinšek from 17:00 on, Mr. Igor Zorčič, Tomaž Lisec and Mr. Franc Laj. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council to the 26th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 38th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 5 February 2018, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We vote. There are 60 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 38th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u2	Thank you very much. It wasn't that hard, President. Look, last time, Mr President, I pointed out that Mr Klemenčič is not three times in a row. Immediately after that, you said that you would hurry or do what man expects. And the Prime Minister heard he was gone three times. But I was informed there this afternoon from those circles at the previous meeting, from the Justice Department, czech, don't return if he has to, and he won't answer you. I was happy when you sent notice 6. 2. from which it appears that Mr Klemenčič will be here. Well, today he got sick, so he did what I was informed about a month ago. Mr President, once again, please ensure Mr Klemenčič's presence and I also ask the President of the Government to ensure the presence of Mr Klemenčič, who is obviously no longer performing his work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u3	Since he's sorry for getting sick, there's really nothing I can do about it. But I'll do everything I've done so far, so everyone will be present. And that's what the Prime Minister knows. I don't think there's anything else I can say. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 27 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. With regard to this point, Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Alenka Smerkolj, Minister without Resor, responsible for Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion, and mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent to which no answers have been answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Ambassador Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am aware that the leadership of the coalition is a demanding task. I experienced this myself from close to 2004-2008. Running a coalition in recent months is a particularly difficult task or a difficult one, leading a coalition if you fail, but it is probably even worse. The time we live gives the impression that the coalition is gone. That's why I'm wondering what it's gonna be like to run this country from your side at a time when no one actually listens to you anymore. Your coalition partners don't listen to you, your MPs don't listen to you, which I'm going to justify later. It seems to me that we are at some insane time and, in fact, a dangerous time, a dangerous time, because the workable government is no longer available. I will not ask you about the 2014 elections, but about the term before our President, and about all those matters, you will answer to your Members later, but I ask you, in fact, how can you claim that the coalition is still there. For 10 laws, 10 SMC members at the last moment have found that they are absolutely necessary. Can you imagine? It's an emergency. For example, in Celje, Mrs Servant's law will be supported by me, it is imperative to provide 24 million now, as the lady has now found out, and for the last 4 years she has not found that something would be necessary in Celje. There are 10 laws from this party of yours signed by your Members and tabled by your Members. You said this morning that MEPs have been trying to deal with individual problems lately and that this would be through the government for months. Yes, Mr. President, that's not true! That's not true! You may adopt the law at a written meeting and send it to Parliament immediately. You make it urgent, quick, and I don't know what kind of procedure, and in March it will be accepted. So what you said wasn't true. It's also about other laws. For example, Mrs Waiteva, who has never heard her speak before in this House, has now found that we urgently need another law. We also have three laws from Desus. We have two laws from SD. You cannot tell all these laws, especially the coalition of SMCs, that these are laws that are essential for XY. These laws may be named by law on the provision of conditions for the election of an XY Member or for his new service. That would be the proper title of individual laws, but that's not the case. In this part, I ask you to answer the question: How will you ensure the normal functioning of the country during the coming time? Of course, then I'll ask you to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u5	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Dr. Gorenak. The coalition's not falling apart. The coalition works, and it's normal. Evidence is a number of acts, a number of operational activities, everything we do every day. You say you have, Mr. Gorenak, the impression that the coalition is gone. I would say that I have witnessed many of the impressions of you and your SDS parties, for example, at the first session, when I performed here as Prime Minister of the Government, you had the impression that immediately after the appointment of the coalition we would fall apart. You had the impression that SMC wouldn't survive a year. Then she won't last two years. Then she won't last three years. You were full of impressions, Mr. Gorenjak, you, your peers in the party, members of the SDS, as well as others. I would like to tell our citizens and citizens that it is important to look at data, not at your impressions, which are often very strange, and especially to measure – where? - Mr. Gorenak? They aim to cause some unrest between citizens and citizens, some fear, the state doesn't work, it doesn't work. Look, it's all working, it's all going. That's right, we have items right now. But the sentences were, they will, but they're going through some normal scenario. While everything else works normally. Let me put it this way. The rules are adopted according to the normative programme as specified. The government proposes them, the National Assembly receives them, and that is why this meeting of the National Assembly is also held because the Government is working because it has submitted the rules that you will decide on. If a Member submits a signature, it shall be his legitimate right. I did not deny the SDS the legitimate right by which you rejected the process of building a second track when you applied for a referendum. Of course from behind, because you did not dare to put yourself in the front row and you equipped Mr Willi Kovacic with signatures. But we need to be aware of something. That's your right. That's why I recognized her. Therefore, you also have no right not to recognise your fellow Members' rights, including those of the SMC, who wish to contribute to better regulation, also make certain laws. Of course, they are also invested by the government. And if it is their assessment, the assessment by Members that they have to make the law themselves, talk to them about why it is such an assessment. I believe that this is meant by all Members to help in some areas. Human resources policy, if I may say so, goes smoothly. We have a certain human resources plan, according to which we are staffing in 2017, now in 2018, and not as much as anyone would like, but as the needs of public administration show, in the state administration. This is happening in normal processes. We have, as you know, indeed, these three days of sentences that I regret. I don't think you were necessarily needed, but I do respect the will of all those who say today to say what they think we're going to face further negotiations with them. But also with trade unions, with representatives of these groups we are conducting a constructive dialogue all the time, and the government side is making proposals, even when you say we are not working, and how we are working. Last week we made suggestions, had more meetings, met with unions. And that's how it's gonna be after the sentences are over. We have been the government of dialogue, we have made quite a few commitments so far, we have fulfilled them, we have eliminated many austerity measures, we have increased those things that have contributed to a slight increase in standards, and we are moving on. We also ensure the stability of public finances and the economic management of state assets according to the criteria, criteria and laws in force. We respect that we have adopted a fiscal rule, we also have adequate supervision, and at the same time, we have ensured with the 2018 budget that the country will operate independently of the elections and on anything normal. We have important challenges. We are dealing with the question of the arbitration decision between Slovenia and Croatia. We have other challenging challenges that the coalition is always responsibly and collectively addressed and, where necessary, when this is the competence of the National Assembly, we propose to adopt an appropriate act. Let me assure you, Mr Gorenak, as well as all other Members and Members, the Government is functioning and will operate normally until the end of the term of office. Of course, this does not mean that there will ever be different opinions within the government within the National Assembly. This is a democratic process that ultimately leads to a decision by procedure. But I repeat, the government is functioning normally, and I want the citizens to have this real impression that we will drive the country forward in a stable manner by the end of our term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u7	Member of Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u8	Thank you very much. President, of course you're working. Now we're going through two cases. I do not recall that in this House, an active Member would be appointed to the post of Director in advance. You appointed Mrs Cinkovo to be Director of VDC, Training Centre in Novi Gorica for the month of June. I see you're looking at the minister, but anyway. Your secretary also sent a message to Nova Gorica, “We agreed to name her”. Look, is that a frame-up, Mr. President? Is this a frame you don't know anything about and listen to the minister back there? Let's go to Celje, Mr. President. In 2015, after eight months before Maximarket, I met Mrs. Zakoskov, and she said: "Good afternoon, Mr. Gorenak!" I said, "Oh, good day, how do you know me?" But she said, "But I am a Member." That's great! See, in Celje you dismissed the director of the hospital, one of the few directors who was acceptable to the Janša government, which was acceptable to the government of Alenka Bratušek and which was acceptable to many others. And one more thing, it's one of the rare ones who did business with the plus. Can you imagine? You dropped him! And what's next? The SD candidate was inappropriate, the candidate who was far better and known for her health care because she was already in charge has received one vote, while according to your instructions Mrs Zakoskova, who is said to be a very healthy lady, has not yet seen the hospital from the inside and she will be the most suitable for managing the hospital. See, that's how you frame. And that's not how she's been in charge of any government so far. I agree that Members have the right to make laws, but it is not surprising that two months before the elections or three months before the elections, which you well know will probably not be possible. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u9	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you very much. First, let me answer the first question. The message you mentioned has not yet been appointed, but it is a decision that is within the competence of the institution's world. [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u11	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u12	The Council of the Institute gave this agreement. Yeah, look, you're used to obviously always being political about how they should vote. That's not how we do it. Yeah, then how do you think weird? I'm not in the institution world, and I represent the government. So, if the world names someone, now the President of the Government is responsible for this personneling by yours, that I was in charge. Mr Gorenak, these are past practices, you have been used to them, and you are therefore signing treaties such as those that are corrupt and are wrong are illegal because you are used to this work. That's how it is with you. Excuse me! I'm trying for a different Slovenia. I'm really trying for a different Slovenia. And I really hope that voters will know this once and for all, that they will say who the one pointing to others is, let's say, in this case, you're going to the government, and you're doing the wrong thing yourself. If I go to another case. The director of the hospital in Celje, yes, he may have been acceptable to the government of Janša, as you said, to the government of Alenka Bratusek. We have found, therefore, that the competent ministry has found that it has not been successful, that it has not been successful in the preparation of the programmes and that it has caused, as far as I recall from the report, financial damage to the institution itself. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u13	May I have some peace, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u14	Yeah, you say profit. Yeah, that's probably what we need to study right now. But I do know that I remember when I read this report that the report was such that it went for the right reasons. Now I wouldn't be discussing with you here that we wouldn't do anything wrong, but I have in mind, and you can check with the finance minister that there were other reasons why he had to leave the job. Please, with some such drawn personnel cases, which you then transfer to the Government, the government is to blame that there is someone in the area who is being trained. Mr. Gorenak, that's not right. The government has its powers, and within these powers it appoints the responsible, I speak for our government, those persons who are convinced that they deserve such a appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u15	Ambassador Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Of course I'm asking for a discussion on the answer. Mr. President, why? Because you're saying things that aren't right, so I want a debate. You can't paint me, you can paint someone else, so the Prime Minister has nothing to do with it. Your government has appointed a Supervisory Board, but of course the Supervisory Board is now appointing your Member. Don't talk about these things like that. And you stumble against our credit, which is a violation – a crime, a possible offense. But your act of appointing an MP is corruption. Why am I still asking for a debate? For a basic reason, because you claim that the coalition works. Now I'm just quoting forwards and nothing else. Dejan Židan: »Resident of MD Medicine without concession received 130 operations, UKC Ljubljana offered 480, got 160, UKC Maribor offered 276, got 102... and so on. We were against it, Desus was against it, SMC accepted it.” It's Mr. Jew's tweet. Now that he's in there, they're good hands working for the cameras. Isn't that nice?Oh, my God! Yeah, well, tell me if SD's still in there or not, if Desus is still in there or not. Let's move on. Desus gave the same tweet. Then let's say Mr. Jew's response. Answer to three current questions. President of SD Židan: "It is disputed that, with the capacities of public health institutions, the programme of operations at the letter meeting is granted to private individuals." I guess that's true. I'm not shimmering the Minister of the Jews, I'm scheming the facts that are. And you say the coalition works. Fresh data, new record, including this tweet. According to data on 1 February 2018, 248 000 people or 59% more were waiting for one of 61 health establishments than at the beginning of your term of office. Of these, 63 thousand 124 are above the limit or 25.4% are waiting. You support the Minister, and you say you have a good minister, but Mr. Jew is right. The numbers are correct. Next, Mr. Jew: “Hold on. In a short written meeting, it is her and the majority's opinion that it is okay to make contested decisions. And not to give enough work to public hospitals, but to private people, according to her, public health care. Disappointed." Mr. Jewn. He's right. But that's how your coalition works. So here are the reasons why we need to discuss your answer. Not pointing to the opposition, the opposition is not in the government, nor is it true that we have said that SMC will no longer be. We never said that. We said you wouldn't make it to the end. But it's really what I've said a couple of times that you'll probably be for one good ficho. That's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u17	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13. 2. 2018, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Miha Kordiš, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u18	The abolition of supplementary health insurance and the introduction of a solidarity public benefit is the basic promise of Mir Cerar and his government. This purpose also enjoys the support of us in Levica, because the majority of the workers would pay less than they pay now and the rich would pay more. The current arrangement is just the opposite. Complementary health insurance is insolvent, ineffective and unfair. It is insolvent because we all pay the 28 euros a month, whether someone lives with a minimum wage or sits at the SDH summit for 13 times the minimum wage. However, additional insurance is ineffective because commercial insurance companies unjustifiably intercept EUR 60 million from the payments they channel into their operations instead of strengthening the Slovenian public health system. Complementary insurance is in short one form of legalised corruption, which benefits only the medical and insurance lobby and the rich, and the account is paid by everyone else. But after three and a half years of delay, Mr Cerar turned on the green light of the option of abolishing supplementary insurance and public taxation, which is the least solidarity and least fair of all possible options. Progress on this proposal hardly exists. A worker on a minimum wage is expected to contribute 2.5 percent, and someone in a managerial position is, say, the director of Luke Koper, and 2.5 percent over his salary. It is said that a worker with a minimum wage contributes 10 times more than a certain director. How is that fair? Come in. This proposal also does not include income on capital. Anyone who owns shares or rents a bunch of apartments will make no difference. A minimum wage worker will pay 20 euros, and someone who collects 4,000 euros a month will pay absolutely nothing on the basis of these revenues. This was responded by the Ministry of Health, which appears to have disagreed and proposed the introduction of a more solidarity 7-degree scale. After that, the rich would pay 70 euros instead of 35, and 80% of the insured would pay less than they do now. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Cerar: Will you support this proposal from the Ministry of Health? When can we expect a more solidarity-based version of this benefit to come to the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u19	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Member Kordish for your question. It's a really hard nut, and we're all looking in the same direction here, in fact, towards the same goal. No government has been able to substantially reform or amend this Health and Health Insurance Act in 25 years. This is a tough nut we've taken and brought the matter to a point where we can accept it now. I must say that, even though I very much want this proposal to be adopted in this mandate, in order to come to the National Assembly and be able to accept it in a timely manner, because I agree with you that this supplementary insurance must be arranged in a more just, solidarity manner in favour of our citizens and citizens. The new CFSP, as this law is briefly called, was in a public debate in February and in part in March. As you know, the Minister has really proposed this 7-degree scale in marriage, and then the debate was very turbulent, and in 400 comments, we must bear in mind that the law has also brought many other solutions. It's a very extensive law that we don't oppose, a lot of good here, which is undeniable. However, this is a concrete question of how to establish as much solidarity as possible as a substitute for supplementary health insurance. It is very important for us here that we really come up with a solution that will be as solidarity and fair as you say and that a solution has been proposed. Finally, following a public debate, it was suggested that the division should be divided into three classes. In fact, according to this proposal, data would say that more than 90% of pensioners and more than 60% of employees would pay less than they pay today for supplementary insurance. And here only the active income of citizens and citizens would be taken into account. However, I agree with you that such a proposal is not yet sufficiently solidarityable for many, despite the fact that many embrace it in a more fair manner, so I will also work with ministers, particularly the Minister of Health, Finance and, if necessary, with someone else to come up with an even better proposal. This is now being done, and I expect as soon as possible that the Government will deal with this. Above all, it is clear that the Government has not yet accepted this proposal, because I do not want to accept a proposal from the Government and send it to the National Assembly, which would be insufficiently solidarity, insufficiently fair. That is why I now expect that in the shortest possible time when re-intersoral coordination takes place, there will be a real solution, more solidarity, ready to be submitted to the National Assembly, because I believe that this law is very much needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u21	Ambassador Miha Kordish, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Given that the current government's mandate is nearing its end at high speed, I am once again interested in a more concrete: When can we expect the abolition of supplementary health insurance and, in its place, really a solidarity and a fair public benefit on the benches of the National Assembly in order to keep the matter going in this mandate? My question about the content and organisation of this solidarity public benefit is also direct. We have the Ministry of Health, which is proposing a seven-stage scale. On this scale, the rich would pay 70 euros, and according to the current proposal, the rich class pays 35 euros. At the same time, with the proposal of the Ministry of Health, 80% of all insured would contribute less than they are now contributing. I am interested and would like to hear from Mr. Cerar: Will you support and support such a proposal? However, the second measure in this organisational set of solidarity public benefits is the passive income of someone, i.e. the inclusion of a pension, a dividend from the shares in the coverage of the basics from which funds are allocated to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u23	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u24	As it is said, the text of the law is still in cross-cutting cooperation, in which, according to my conduct, this scale, which you have mentioned, is being re-examined, but at this moment, I cannot give any definitive information as to what solution will be adopted. We are certainly going towards greater solidarity, greater fairness, that those who have more money, better incomes, pay more than those who have less, who are on a minimum wage or otherwise in a weaker position and who have to pay significantly less. That's what we're looking for. As it is said, I strongly urge that we catch these last hands in this mandate by talking about weeks, not more in months. I hope and I believe that the matter will go through the government in time, that you will then be able to decide on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u25	Ambassador Miha Kordiš you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would like to discuss the response of the President of the Government to the issue of the abolition of supplementary health insurance and the introduction of a solidarity public benefit. It is the key promise of Mira Cerar, his government, it is also enshrined in the coalition agreement, but despite this, nothing has happened in three and a half years. The President of the Government says that there is more solidarity between the measures in inter-departmental coordination. I am only afraid that before the end of the mandate, this measure will not come from inter-departmental coordination and will remain there. And once again, supplementary health insurance is insolvent, ineffective and unfair. All too many times in all areas of life, we have seen solutions in this government that have been, or are still, insolvent, unfair and ineffective, so that something could happen so that this key promise in the health field will not be fulfilled. And here I think he has to cut down the National Assembly, intervene, open up a debate on the response of the President of the Government, substantively linked to a solidarity public duty, and speed up the progress of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u27	Miha Kordiš, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13 February 2018, in the framework of the votes. The Magnificent Messenger. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to ask a question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u28	Dear Members, Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Ministers and Ministers, good afternoon! I am interested in the future, I am interested in how our citizens will live tomorrow, and how they will feel in this country. My question, Prime Minister, is very simple. Some say the past 10 years have been lost. My question to you is: What has your government done to make our country Slovenia better prepared for the problems and challenges facing Slovenia in the future? Very specific exact data, which do not leave much scope for opposition interpretation, are data from government Umar, OECD, European Commission. All these three organisations highlight the three key problems and challenges facing Slovenia in the coming years, negative demographic trends, high public debt and a harsh business environment. Unfortunately, with regard to negative demographic trends, your government has not done much. Over the next 10 years, as many as 100,000 of our citizens will benefit from a pension, which is fine, but this means tremendous pressure on the pension allowance, the health allowance and everything that follows. High public debt. Now, on the American market or in America, there's been another kind of minor disturbance on the stock market. What if this crisis hits Europe again? Given that we did not reduce public debt at the time of the merger, Slovenia unfortunately does not have much room for manoeuvre in the event of the next economic crisis. Because we have come to this last crisis from 23% of GDP in public debt to 80%. And another such crisis would not have survived Slovenia as such. And in the end, a harsh business environment. They say very clearly, bureaucratic barriers are exceptional, and investors in particular are disturbed by double rules. Something that is available to foreigners, to our domestic, own investors is not possible. So it seems, Prime Minister of the Government, that Slovenia is not better prepared in 2018 for the challenges that await us than it was in 2014. Please let us enlighten: In what areas do you think Slovenia is better prepared for the challenges ahead?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u29	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u30	Commissioner Tonin, I'm sorry I don't have 20 minutes 'cause it would take 20 minutes to tell you everything because we have so many good achievements. But now I'm going to be very short. First you say, we haven't reduced the public debt. In 2014, the public debt was 82%; this year it is planned to be around 72%, even slightly lower. We have reduced public debt by about 10%. And if you want the data, I will tell you another information – we have substantially restructured this public debt with the very successful policy of the Treasury Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, so that we have also substantially reduced the interest. In 2019, the government budget interest cost is falling below €800 million, representing more than €280 million per year in interest expenditure compared to 2014. Do you know how much of this we have been able to devote to investment, to infrastructure, even to science, which has all the multiple effects? Don't forget, I'm already saying – just because we've spent more time on science and infrastructure in the last budget means we're looking at development, because these two activities have the greatest multiple effects on the economy. Take a look at your employment records. I always say: work is the best social measure. We've cut unemployment from about 130,000 to a little over 80,000. We've hired a lot of young people and so on. I would also say that this Directorate, which I mentioned earlier, received the 2017 Risk Magazine Award for the innovative structure of inter-currency swap transactions and a marked improvement in the public debt risk profile. So we also recognize how well we've worked on this. We've consolidated public finances. At the end of 2014, we had a substantial over 4% deficit, this year we will have our first surplus in the state budget. So, we've settled public finances, the state budget is functioning normally. We've regained state sovereignty. Economic growth is once again higher than in the European Union. It's not a coincidence. This is not just a matter of global cohesion and good work for our economists, but also government support measures, a number of concrete measures by the Ministry of the Economy, promotion of tourism, infrastructure, construction of additional rail and road modern connections, investment in science, as I mentioned. In education we introduce new approaches, apprenticeships and so on. We link the economy to the school and scientific sphere and so on and so on. These are specific data, measurable in numbers. The Ministry of Public Administration, in cooperation with others, has done a great deal in digitising public administration processes as well as in other areas. Does that mean what we're doing? We are improving the business environment, we have a more rational state administration, where we have fewer employees than at the beginning of the mandate, but we have a little more in the public administration, because we can now afford this, in the area of health, social, education, because these are the areas we need. This is precisely why, indeed, because we are facing the challenges of ageing, i.e. demographic challenges, wider, we have other challenges. Like learning skills and stuff. But if you look at the reports of the OECD, the European Commission and Umarje, in most cases we have made significant progress in competitiveness, the banking system is much more stable, we have arranged for the management of state property. This is now arranged, going according to the criteria. It's a measure of profitability. Thus, we have stabilised some economic and financial system and now we must maintain this economic growth so that we can also increase social well-being. The quality of life is essential, so we do all of this. You are right, if the new crisis comes, we must now make some savings, now make some more resilient financial scheme at state level and therefore respect the fiscal rule, prepare ourselves for possible difficult times, and therefore we will do our utmost to maintain stable economic growth through appropriate measures. This is very important because only this will bring more quality of life to all people in Slovenia. The demographic factor is very burning. We have prepared a White Paper, adopted a strategy for a long-lived society and are preparing for the next mandate when the next step in the pension reform or policy concerning the ageing population is needed. I think I've done a few things. I'm sorry, I don't have 20 minutes. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u31	The Magnificent Messenger. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u32	Dear Prime Minister, I hope you will respond to my invitation to coffee. There you will definitely have more than 20 minutes of time to explain all these things and explain them in detail. But there's one thing I want to point out. Everything you have just listed and said has been happening at a time of extremely high economic growth. Here it can be a matter of interpretation of who is responsible for this matter. I wouldn't go into these things. But let's ask ourselves, if ever, then right now at the time of the greatest economic growth, we should prepare our society as best we can for the potentially difficult times ahead. With respect to the high public debt, you've rightly stated, you've hired 5,000 additional public servants. But you forgot to say the following that before this crisis we had our public debt at 23%. You say today that 70% of GDP is a great success. But if you compare this with the countries of the former socialist bloc, we are far behind here, or we are much more indebted, depending on what perspective you're looking at. But once again, given the high economic growth you've had, much more could be done. About the business environment. We were in Ptuj last night. Apparently, people say different things to me than you do, but it seems that your government in Slovenia is primarily attracted to the production of a company that will pay people between 600 and 800 euros. However, nothing was specifically designed to bring high-tech companies with high wages into Slovenia. And this should be the goal of every government and all of us in order to have as many well-paid people as possible in the country and that every year we do not run out of 8,000 well-educated citizens and citizens abroad, where they have better conditions and better wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u33	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u34	For a little while. True, we have an extremely high economic growth. We're all responsible for her, some more, some less. We're not going to discuss this. Everyone's got a job to do. But you can't ask me now about the years before 2014. I took over the government for leadership in the second half of 2014. Since then, we can talk about public debt and at the time it was 82% public debt, this year it will be 72% or perhaps even slightly less. We've cut interest and so on, what I've been saying. Since then, if I shorten, our government has pulled the country out of the crisis. That's a fact. This is a very important fact. Nevertheless, we did so in a calm way, stable, determined, but calm. Not with some turbulence to shake whole mountains, and then eventually we'd have some bank holes or something. Let me put it this way. We have already improved the business environment. In some segments, we are even making a number of efforts. The Investment Promotion Act is here. It will provide even more support to domestic investors. You have accepted here in the National Assembly on a proposal from the government a so-called construction and environment troika, which significantly simplifies some key processes of construction, licensing and so on, which will benefit not only the citizens but also the economy. And listen, tech companies. A Canadian multinational Magna came to Slovenia, a world reputation that has a serious intention of developing an industry here. This is the largest greenfield investment in Slovenia. However, if you want more technologically, I will say that Yaskawa has decided to set up a centre in Kočev for its operations throughout Europe. That is why we also strengthened the vocational school there to train our personnel. It is said that there is a company that will produce the most modern robots and others for all of Europe. If it's not high technology, then I don't know what to say. I could explain it further. There are also a number of other companies that are not mentioned. For example, Novartis is also expanding in Slovenia. Right at the time of this government, we have at least two enlargements, which are very important. However, various technology companies in the field of digital technologies and so on and the promotion of the circular economy. That's what our government does. Why? As the circular economy is the vision that is sustainable, which keeps Slovenia green, it works the economy more efficiently, less dependent on raw materials and allows more jobs and more added value. And this is the goal that we have in this government, and we want it to continue in the coming years. We're not giving up on this. Of course, there are challenges, of course there are, there is not all that can be done in three, four years. That's why we keep going. We'll build a second track and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u35	The Magnificent Messenger. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u36	Of course, I believe that in the coming months that remain at your disposal there will be no miracles, but it seems extremely important to me that politics concentrates on essential strategic things and that it stops dealing with day-to-day bravado. The current flood of some laws is also going this way. Very minor, very detailed things sort of work out. But I think that politics is a duty – and Parliament is also the first to talk about these things, to talk about where it wants Slovenia in the next ten years. If we want to open up these issues, if we want to lead these debates, then first we need to ask ourselves what is the hardest thing that awaits us. Certainly, once again, negative demographic trends, the harsh business environment and high public debt are three things your, our or any other policy will have to face in the next five, ten years. Things are probably not going to be pleasant, and they may be less pleasant, because today's high economic growth has not been used as Schröder's government in Germany, to make our societies more adaptable to these things. Yesterday I said we met on Ptuj. I know that you, for safety's sake, have more difficult access to people. I, as an ordinary Member of Parliament, may be much easier. But if you ask people, they can tell you that today many find it difficult to survive even from their wages and pensions. Instead of strengthening the middle layer, we have more and more poor people and more and more ultra rich people. Ultra rich people will always know how to take care of themselves, don't worry about them, they will be tax-optimised, they will go to such or otherwise tax havens, and I think it is essential that policy focus on strengthening the middle layer. Therefore, the things proposed by Nova Slovenija, from the development cap to higher income relief, lower tax burdens on wages, your heart is hurt when some socialists attack you, that these are measures that will help the rich. Come on! The rich will take care of themselves without a hitch. This is about helping many young people to stay in Slovenia every year, because this country has educated them, and now they get better conditions and better wages across our northern border. This is what these measures are designed to do, and such things should be dealt with by policy. I therefore hope that this debate will help to focus on the substance, not on the babies.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u37	Mag. Matthew Tonin, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13. 2. 2018, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Simon Kustec Lipicer, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u38	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministerial assembly! Each of us, no matter what sex looks like, how old he is, what education he has, how much he deserves, each of us has the right to human dignity and to a quality life. The responsibility of the State in this regard is very important. It is primarily the responsibility of the State to help each individual to open the door to that dignity and to the quality of life in the country where he resides. And we ask ourselves, President of the Government, where are we today on this issue in Slovenia. Whether our people have real opportunities or whether the state provides them with such opportunities. Expectations, initiatives, including the demands of many groups, are numerous. From pensioners to young people, from employees to farmers, culturers, schoolchildren, scientists, cops today, tomorrow health personnel. President of the government, what do people from the state really have? What do people today have from positive statistics on growth, debt reduction and so on? A few months from now, this government and this coalition, this National Assembly, after 10 years, will be the first to go to the real classical elections, not the early elections, and I ask you, President of the Government: What has this government done for people at that time? How do you assess the impact this work has had, and in particular will it have on the quality of life of people, on living standards, on the quality of life that the country must provide with its people's activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u39	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Ambassador Dr. Kustec Lipicer for the question. Yeah, these are the constant questions we've done. Actually, there are a lot of things that I could say, I'm going to eliminate just a few. The important thing is that we pulled Slovenia out of the crisis. This is very important, however people may have forgotten, but in 2014, when we took over the government, it was significantly different. Some have called for the Troika of Slovenia, some have said you cannot succeed, Slovenia has no more full sovereignty over its finances, many comments, criticisms have flown from Brussels, including from Strasbourg to the state of human rights, this is now nothing more, not in Strasbourg, nor in Brussels no more such comments. We can say that in these few years Slovenia has become a country with a reputation, a country which the European Union recognizes as a successful member, which the world sees as a country where their citizens can walk peacefully as tourists, where investors can go to invest where people like to come where they feel safe. Let me warn you, we've been through some very serious security challenges. Let us also remember the transition of almost half a million migrants across Slovenia, recalling many terrorist attacks in Europe, when additional security measures had to be provided in this part of Europe and so on. All of this contributes to the arrival of tourists, we are an open society, we can live free, people can say what they think, and they are not afraid, as if they were afraid in another regime that someone with fear of anyone here would want to introduce. I know it's not all that people want. I'd like to give myself more, but I don't want us to share what it isn't today, because then we'll be in crisis again tomorrow. However, let me say that in this mandate of this government, which I am leading, in all segments of the public administration and the economy, we have made it possible to have higher salaries, we have made it possible and provided higher pensions, including the lowest ones, we have made it possible to supplement, regress and the rest of the pensioners, which we have not previously been able to receive to this extent in recent years, we have made possible higher social allowances and we have made possible the social measure that is most important to me: much more work. Today, there are many more employees, many fewer unemployed, many among young people there are huge jobs for happiness. And we have to keep doing that. It's that vision. That's why we're gonna build a second track. Therefore, I say that it is not right to throw some pollen under the feet of such projects. That's why we moved the third development axis project from the dead spot. That is why we have brought large investors from abroad, from reputable countries, into Slovenia, with sustainable development models that will give our people jobs and not minimum wages, but higher wages. As you know, the number of minimum wages is falling significantly, and even the minimum wage has increased considerably, among other things, every year, in particular this year. I am pleased that we have been able to phase out most of the austerity measures already, the infamous Zuyf that has been in force, and I am particularly pleased that we have arranged for the management of state property to not be treated so domestically here. We have arranged many things in the area of public procurement, from health care to public administration in general and so on, that people can see that we think seriously that public administration should be a service to citizens, not some strange sphere where no one knows who drinks and pays. We're working transparently. I am pleased that consumption has increased significantly. This suggests a sign of trust, including greater optimism among people, although trying to use some information every day to scare people about how bad it is in Slovenia, is not so bad. For a lot of people, it's not good enough, and I'm going to fight with all of you in the coming years to make things better. But I stress, even now when I look at the union sentences, their demands, I cannot agree to unreasonable demands, they cannot demand a billion so much over the thumb, when they know well that we have made progress in this area, that we have already taken care of those least paid, i.e. the J category, and for some others that the government has fulfilled its commitments and we are still treating them with respect, we are negotiating, seriously taking all these requirements seriously and we will also take them into the future. We are a government of dialogue, a government that leads Slovenia peacefully and stablely forward. I believe that Slovenia needs this. However, much remains to be done, and I will try to do so if I have the opportunity to do so in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u41	Mrs Simona Kustec Lipicer, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly. It'll be more an appeal to the Prime Minister. President of the Government, I urge you to continue your work and work for the people. Too many in this room, as well as many outside of it, have already become chef masters of pre-election goblins and minester. But this is not a responsibility for people who need a country that they can respect, trust, appreciate, and be convinced that they need it. What needs to be done, no matter what time we are, is constant concern, attention for people that people can not only survive, but live. At that time, we will be worthy of having our own country, and then true statesmen who can also lead this country responsibly into the future will prove themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u43	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you very much. There's something else I'd like to add. Before that, I forgot to point out another interesting information, one very important information. As we are doing with the standard of living, it is data on net household income, i.e. household per capita. Here I can also say that comparisons with other countries in the European Union show that we are doing better in this criterion throughout the three-and-a-half-year period of this government. In doing so, it is very important that we have managed to maintain income inequality at a low level. So what's been exposed before. We have not significantly increased these divides between the poor and the rich. We're still a society that holds a social bond here. But I stress, and this is really important, every citizen and citizen, every person living in Slovenia, must be important to us, every resident, every resident. Quality of life is essential. These numbers show objective improvement. But until people sense in themselves that these indicators are true that in their sphere they are in some way positively moving forward, we will still have to work a lot and work. But the quality of life is something that the government has to worry about, and we have to take care of ourselves. Everyone must also take care of their health, for their education, and the government here must offer some good system, educational, health, all of it. That's what I'm going to do for the next maximum, I believe with all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u45	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 35th and 37th meetings of the National Assembly. Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčič should answer Dr Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the trial of former Justice Minister Aleš Zalar and former Attorney General Zvonk Fischer, but is absent today because of the disease. I ask the Member whether he insists on an oral response or whether he wants a written reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I don't need a written answer. So I want to have an oral answer. But since I still have some time, I can say the following. Mr. Klemenčič has been avoiding the National Assembly for four months to come here. One month ago, it was very clear in his cabinet that he would not answer that question. He'll also get sick if necessary. And today he got sick. I know, the president, there's nothing you can do, but it would be nice to see a medical certificate. But I know it's not in your jurisdiction. Why do I insist on my parliamentary question? For a basic reason, because last year Mr Klemenčič made it very clear that heads will fly if a trial is not completed within a certain period of time. This judicial intervention was probably not done by John the Cat. He was smarter than that, but he was more careful. I therefore asked the Minister and asked him: "What about the proceedings against Mr Fischer and Mr Zalar?" Are they going to fly heads there, too? And the Minister avoids the answer. However, the proceedings were annulled three days ago. Three days ago, he was out of date. The Court has another possibility of moving the deadline a little bit, but not much. This points to the minister's double standards, so I wanted his oral answer on this. And once again, I'm asking for an oral response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u47	The Minister will answer the question orally at the next meeting of the assembly. Now she's going to be Minister of Finance of the Mags. Mateja Vraničar Erman, answered Luke Mesca's question regarding the consent to the SDH Annual Capital Investment Management Plan for 2018. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Thank you so much for asking. Two topics are intertwined in the parliamentary issue, one is the management of the country's investment in individual companies dealing with the development of specific gambling, and the other is the regulation of gambling. If I touch the last one first. The issue of gambling regulation is not a question of ownership, but it is a question of responsible gambling management, which allows for a proper balance between the performance of gaming activities under competitive and stable conditions and responsible gaming, which should also provide preventive and, if necessary, curative measures. Also in the field of regulation of activities, it is not only the Law on gambling but also other legal bases, such as the law governing the prevention of money laundering. This area of gambling can also be a swimming pool for such violations. In all these areas, the Ministry and Government are active. The second part of the question concerns the management of capital investments. In this respect, the Act on the Slovenian State Holding Act provides that the National Assembly must adopt a decree on the State’s capital investment management strategy, and this has also happened in 2015. Among other things, this decree places companies in the field of gaming among portfolio investments, i.e. among the investments with which the Republic of Slovenia seeks to achieve exclusively economic objectives and can therefore, as such, also be intended for sale. Taking into account this provision of the strategy, the 2016 annual management plans for 2017 and now for 2018 also provided for companies which are portfolio investments and where the implementation of sales activities can also be planned. However, the SDH Act is not the only legal framework to be taken into account in the management of companies engaged in gambling. It is also necessary to comply with the Gambling Act, which provides for a mandatory share of State ownership, which further means that it cannot be one without the other. Without the amendment of the Law on Gambling, which allows for privatisation, there can also be no beginning of privatisation procedures. As a result, the question of what should be sooner, what later, is actually irrelevant. The fact is that this is a portfolio investment, but at the same time it is also a fact that sales procedures cannot be initiated and implemented until the Gambling Act is amended. Let me remind you that the amendment of the Act on Gambling has been in the normative plan since 2015, but unfortunately this proposal has not been implemented due to conflicting views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u49	Member of the Port of the Moon, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr President, and a nice greeting, Madam Minister. Now I'll be clear. What you say about gambling is against the spirit of the current law and against the letter of the current law. The current law provides in Article 55a that the share of each natural person in the company’s core capital must not exceed 10 % of the shares, with the total share of natural persons not exceeding 49 % of the shares. Why does the law thus protect the state and public ownership of gambling? Just because it's not just a matter of regulation. To ensure good regulation, ownership must also be regulated. Finally, these casinos, such as HIT Gorica, are placed in the Bivanian environment, specifically in Novo Gorica. As we know from many studies of foreign practices and so on, gambling can have serious negative consequences on the local population. Our law is written in this way to ensure the share of the State and the share of local communities in the management of these companies, in order to reduce their negative effects. So I asked you how you can pass this law – you say that it is a simple portfolio investment for which the state should look for private owners. I can't understand it because I think you've gone in the wrong order. First, we should discuss the role of gambling in this society and how to regulate it effectively, and then we should change the Law on Gambling and then talk about how to allow, if at all, private capital entry into these societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u51	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. We are talking about taking into account the two acts adopted by the National Assembly, on the one hand the Decree on the Capital Investment Management Strategy, which sets out these investments for portfolio investments, and on the other hand the Law on Gambling. I don't think the issue of order here is relevant at all. The fact is, without both conditions being met, that each investment is qualified as a portfolio investment and that, at the same time, there is a possibility of divestment or reduction of State ownership below 51 % until these two conditions are cumulatively met, the privatisation or sale of capital investments in gambling organisations or undertakings cannot occur. Once again, my firm belief is that regulation of activities does not have a direct connection with ownership in a particular company, but in regulating activities as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u53	Ambassador Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. It is precisely because of experience that we believe that ownership is a key lever of the regulation of any company, and I do not think that this can simply be denied. However, I demand a general debate because I have, according to the Minister's replies, the feeling that we will be put back before the fact that we have been carried out. SDH is a decree that was not adopted by the National Assembly but was adopted by the Government – the National Assembly adopted a strategy on the management of state investment and the decree is adopted by the Government. The decree was set up in 2018. It provides for the withdrawal of state stakes from casinos, including from Hita Nova Gorica, and it is my feeling that discussions with potential buyers will take place before we even touch the law that regulates this area. In the end, we will be faced with the fact that the government will come, one or the other, with some investor and they will say, here, this company is willing to buy Hit Nova Gorica, but for this we must change the law. All those Members who now object to this, whether or not I know what kind of procedure this is taking, are against the development of this country. Things like this happen and we've seen them before. In Levi, we insist that the order should be precisely reversed. First, let us discuss whether the regulation of gaming activities is appropriate for us, and then whether any withdrawal of ownership and public shares from the gambling structures makes sense. I want to hold a debate on this, and you know our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u55	Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13. 2. 2018, in the framework of the votes. Now she's going to be Minister of Finance of the Mags. Mateja Vraničar Erman answered Mr Uroš Piklo's question regarding the payment for the performance of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, d.d.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. Mr Member, thank you very much for the question raised. Two separate issues need to be addressed in the question. In one part, payments relating to performance relate to the board of directors of a bad bank or DUTB and in the other part to payments relating to other employees. It is clear from the question that you are addressing both issues. With regard to the payment of performance for the administration of DUTB or for the Management Board, it should be pointed out that, in accordance with the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, it is stipulated that, irrespective of the provisions of the law governing the remuneration of managers in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia, the remuneration policy of the members of the management board of DUTB shall be determined by the Assembly, which, in the case of DUTB, is the Government. And the Government adopted the remuneration policy of the members of the Management Board in June 2016 and this remuneration policy is still in force today. In accordance with Article 4 of the Law, the Ministry of Finance, within the framework of the DUTB supervision, shall ensure that payments of performance to the Management Board do not result in any irregularities, so that payments are consistent with the applicable remuneration policy. In view of past payments, the Ministry of Finance has concluded that the remuneration of the Management Board does not deviate from the starting points or principles set out in the current remuneration policy. As regards the second part of the payments, these are performance payments to other employees, and it should be noted that the Government has no direct influence on these payments. Payments are a matter of business decisions of the management of DUTB. We do not have the authority to intervene directly in these matters. We can give general guidance when it comes to the prudence and rationality of the management's business decisions. The DUTB shall generate benefits for other staff on the basis of internal acts adopted by the Management Board itself. As regards payments of so-called loyalty or performance allowances in 2016 and 2017, the Ministry requested clarifications as well as internal acts adopted by the DUTB in this area last year. It follows from the explanations that this is part of the system of remuneration and remuneration, which is intended to maintain key experienced staff. This is one of the key challenges for the DUTB, which has a limited duration. In 2016, for example, it was envisaged that the allowance for loyalty to key staff would only be paid when certain conditions were met, namely only in two instalments in 2017, provided that the worker would then be employed in the DUTB. In its explanation, DutB pointed out the broader context of this supplement, which is linked to the departure of high-quality co-workers whom the company’s management does not wish to lose. Past departures have had a strong negative impact on the company’s business and the use of the supplement is one of the tools by which the DUB management, in accordance with its competences and laws, tries to reduce the potential operational risks associated with the departures of employees. The Ministry therefore does not identify any infringements or irregularities in this context. However, we expect DUTB to continue to operate transparently, economically, efficiently and effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u57	Member Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister! First of all, thank you very much for this introductory part of the answer. Perhaps in time I have somehow combined the issue of both the remuneration or the remuneration of the board of directors and, of course, the other employees. You have read the provisions of Article 4 of the Law on Bank Recovery and Stability. I will not repeat and continue reading this article, but, however, let me make it very simple to say, the direct role of the Slovenian Government Assembly, and I see the Ministry of Finance as a key factor in this government, which somehow cares about the balance of public finances, how can it be, if I somehow concentrate on writing an officer's evening, a Mariborian officer's evening, that it was not the business of the DUTB, a bad bank, successfully in 2016, but it was paid for EUR 196 000 of gross wages to the first one in the DUTB. In addition, I need to read these numbers because I do not have everyone in my head, 365 000 Euros of additional prizes plus additional ratings and awards to employees, of course, while hiring expensive external service providers, with a large number of employees on the DUTB itself. Of course, I would expect you to somehow explain how you think, for my taste and for my vision, the anomalies to be removed, on the other hand, we are negotiating, arguing, if not worse, for a few 10 euros of additional monthly wages to firefighters, certain segments of public administration, that I am not talking about correcting the wrongs of pensioners for the past period of non-coordination of pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u59	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that the Bank Claims Management Company has been set up as a bad bank in order to carry out certain activities and this is the activity of an economic company, not a public administration or a state administration. Therefore, the rules applicable to wage-setting cannot automatically be an argument for wage-setting in a company such as a company for bank claims management. The rules for determining the remuneration of DUTB members were laid down at the time of the adoption of the law and did not in principle change, change and upgrade the remuneration policy for members of the Management Board. And my assessment is that in this part the current remuneration policy is appropriate and appropriate and does not need to be corrected in terms of any exacerbation. Previous data also show that DUTB’s management or management of DUTB, in an appropriate manner or transparent and cost-effective manner, has also rewarded its employees for their activities or for their work in 2016. I believe that the same will be true for 2017. When you mention the poor operation of the DUTB in 2016, the fact is that the DUTB recorded a net loss of EUR 7.8 million in 2016, but we must not forget that in 2016 the DUTB had to bear the costs of joining the Bank's Factor and Pro Bank, that it had to bear the unexpected costs of resolving the Cimos case and if these extraordinary events were not, the DUTB would also record a profit in 2016. The relevant or positive business continued in 2017, where in the first half of the DUTB in fact achieved the annual objectives set for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u61	Finally, the Minister of the Interior will be mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar answered Luke Mesca's question about cutting wire at the border with Croatia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Technical border protection is an integral part of ensuring effective protection of our part of the external Schengen border. Our measures, given that we are a Schengen country, are intended to discourage or prevent illegal immigration for the entire Schengen area. Temporary technical barriers are increasingly part of the protection and control strategy at the external EU or Schengen borders, which some European countries are using, including: Spain, Hungary, Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As regards the migration picture in the previous year, I can say that in 2017, Slovenian police recorded almost 80% of the increase in illegal border crossings according to the year before. Among the thousands of 930 people treated by the police due to illegal border crossings, the citizens of Afghanistan, Turkey, Kosovo, Pakistan and Algeria dominate. I can appreciate that the Slovenian police have actually been successful in their work, as on the other hand the number of returns from neighbouring countries has decreased. Technical barriers are becoming more and more complex or border guard upgrades with police patrols, and the police are also planning to cover the most frequently used border crossing points with cameras as well, and both of them, of course, have the primary objective of protecting the border as effectively as possible and with as few human resources as possible. In doing so, it is best to demonstrate the fact that enforcers and foreigners avoid the points where the fences are placed or try to cross the fences by injuring it. It should be borne in mind that, given the human resources problem in the police, border protection through technical means and temporary technical barriers is an effective and rational way of working. Technical obstacles are set or replaced within the framework of the plan of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the concert is gradually replaced by a panel fence, priority in the vicinity of settlements, rivers, tourist facilities and recognised migration routes of wild animals. It should also be pointed out that it is also working intensively with local communities to try to listen to their problems. Also, the fact that 435 doors have been placed so far in temporary technical obstacles somehow confirms my claim. Given that we are recording the steady increase in irregular migration and that we are currently actually assessing that Slovenia is leading a successful strategy for curbing illegal migration, technical barriers will not be removed until the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken a decision on removal, as it has also taken a decision on the establishment, which must be valid, which must be comparable to other measures, notably the increase in the workforce of the police to protect the border. If Slovenia had actually taken a decision to remove these obstacles from the borders at this point, it would have been a sign for all migrants on the Western Balkan route that the borders had opened and would have caused the next mass pressure of irregular migration on our borders. The Member also mentions the problem that firefighters should have when accessing water, which he mentioned in the oral presentation of the issue. Here I can say that the police do not have specific information on this, but if you have specific information, please send them to us so that the police can approach the realization of access immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u63	Member of the Port of the Moon, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye! Madam Minister, I cannot at first agree with your observation or your thesis that Slovenia, surrounded by this barbed wire, is somehow following European-Schengen standards. I would rather say that such a country works for people who look at it from the outside, like a hysterical Hungary, which has fallen into this Orban non-liberal democracy, as it says, but in fact it is a modern form of conservative dictatorship. I hope that the wire will be removed from us as soon as possible, and we will begin to follow by example a slightly different vision of the future, as our eastern neighbours do, where you will also find the most examples of countries with hysterical politics and, of course, fenced borders. That's the first thing. Secondly, when you state as an excuse for doing statistics that last year 80% more people illegally crossed the border than the year before, I would remind you that last year only 5% of the number of people who illegally crossed the border in the then Iranian-Iraq crisis. At that time we had 36 thousand illegal border crossings in one year, today we have a thousand 930 per year. The then government did not go into hysteria, did not set the wire, understood the humanitarian note of what was happening at the time. Your government, however, approaches as if we are facing some modern-day Turkish incursions, even though people are unarmed, they are fleeing from some unsustainable situation and so on. The wire should also be removed because all this hysteria has cost us 20 million euros so far and because, as I said, it limits animals, people and the local population. It's practical. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u65	Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u66	Yes, thank you for your word, again, President. Mass migration is a challenge for the whole of the European Union, not just for Slovenia. Indeed, among the strategic priorities of the European Union, we find a policy to control and limit the flow of irregular migration into the European Union. The only possible consensus reached within the European Union is the need to limit illegal migration flows. The fundamental question is where this will be done. I believe that the only true concept to be implemented at the external borders is that, after all, the protection of the external borders of the European Union is also the duty of the European Union, which must also have sovereign control over illegal or illegal entry into the European Union. However, I agree that the European Union has not actually done everything that it should have done is not a strategy for legitimate arrivals into the European Union. I also believe that because of all this deficit, which was at the level of European policy, this issue or the fact that countries have not been able to manage massive illegal arrivals into the European Union at their borders, that this has then turned into a security issue and that we still have internal borders within the Schengen area today. Indeed, the European Union needs a more comprehensive strategy, which is actually broader than the concept of international protection than it is because we know that the Geneva Convention is, in fact, under some way under migratory pressure. There is a need to talk more about strengthening the first countries of asylum, to talk about humanitarian programmes, about temporary protection, which Slovenia also proposed in 2015, but unfortunately that was not heard at the time. Of course, the problem is also that the priority at this point is still mobility, which, in fact, also disturbs the ethical response of countries and in some ways also slowly leads to the breakdown of the international legal order governing refugee law. However, I cannot agree with the manner in which you are debated, honourable Member. It's not about hysteria, it's not about any barbaric projects, as you say in your performances. You must have forgotten about the time that half a million people passed through our country. This is a security issue, however we address the security issue. We have never said that this is not humanitarian, but the fact is that it also brings a security dimension. Somehow I can't help but feel that you don't really know all the police's legal duties. I suggest you read again the laws that this area is, because control of the state border is the legal task of the police and also technical obstacles are a legal measure. You can't talk to me about leaving the law or opening the border, because this is actually contrary to the tasks and responsibilities of the Ministry of the Interior. However, I estimate that your actual implementation, that it is a barbaric project, is essentially an insult to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u67	Ambassador Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u68	Yeah, thanks for saying that again. It's not a technical obstacle, as you euphemistically call it, it's a cutting wire. The wire was not placed on the border by the police, but it was placed by the government, and the government is also the one that should be removed. As I said, this wire has cost us nearly EUR 20 million by now, according to the daily newspaper. The situation is not what you think it is. In 2000, 36,000 people entered Slovenia due to the Iraqi-Iranian crisis, almost 20 times fewer last year, and we did not have cutting wire and this year we have it. You can't convince me in this context that this is all necessary now. Look, you just removed the trend that came, I told you where, Mr Orban was the man who popularized the barbed wires in Europe and started talking about that we must now, with technical obstacles, as you say, also preserve some of the strong Christian core of this continent. And our government followed that. Why did she follow? To please the then hysteria driven by the right hand. Now it's all over, we're still spending money on it, people at the border are still suffering from it, they can't do tourism, they can't normally go to water, animals get involved in this wire. That's why I'm asking you: Why don't you remove that wire? That's my only question: Why is this wire still needed? Since I have not received an answer, I suggest we discuss this in the National Assembly. Since this is not just a question of wire, it is also a question of what kind of community we want to be in the future. In Levica, we do not want to live in communities that will be fenced with barbed wires, either rich communities that are being fenced against poorer suburbs, as we can see in the United States, or countries that are being fenced in front of neighbouring countries or from people who are fleeing from certain situations and who prefer to see them drowning in water rather than helping them. This is how we reject the future, and therefore we want to discuss, before the end of this mandate, when this, forgive me, will be removed from the barbaric project.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u69	Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13. 2. 2018, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! My question is very simple and I think we have talked about the New Bank of Ljubljana several times. I want to know: How's the NLB sale going? How do you implement the commitment made by the Government to sell this bank on 31 December 2017? How do you do this, especially because you keep mentioning that this dialogue is constructive and, on the other hand, the European Commission communicated at the end of January that it doubts that the Slovenian proposal in relation to the postponement of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is equivalent to the original sales undertaking and initiated an in-depth investigation? What does this in-depth investigation mean in terms of the credibility of your policy, in the credibility of your constructive dialogue with the Commissioner for Competitiveness? As information from the European Commission, which is public, is simply not an impression, even less can convince us that there is any constructive dialogue. I am afraid you do not understand this Commissioner in terms of the content itself. I have no doubt that, of course, protocol matters do not take place at the appropriate level, nor do they take place with respect to the civilities which are intended in this respect, but the information that comes after them simply does not give us this. I ask because, given the commitments made by Slovenia and the failure to fulfil these commitments, Slovenia can today be in an illegal position and it may be necessary to pay the fine or pay back all the money that has been invested as State aid to the New Ljubljana Bank. I also cannot say that if I go back a little bit now, to the words of the Prime Minister, who said that there are no problems in Brussels and we are appreciated and so on. Look, these warnings are substantively difficult, and these warnings actually lead us to believe that everyone doesn't trust us. That's why I would ask you if you could say: What are the follow-up actions of the Ministry or Government?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u71	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Thank you so much for asking. As you know, at the end of December last year, the Government proposed to the European Commission a formal amendment to the commitments made or adopted in 2013 with regard to State aid granted to the New Ljubljana Bank. Until 31st. 12. 2017 Nova Ljubljanska banka and the Republic of Slovenia have fulfilled all commitments arising from the decision, except for the partial privatisation commitment of Nova Ljubljanska banka. In fact, the deadline for selling 50% of the New Ljubljana Bank expired on December 31st last year. Why this sale did not take place last year, I have explained it several times in this place and at this point I would not repeat it. In view of the fact that this sale process was not carried out by 31 December, it is necessary, in accordance with the procedure followed by the European Commission in respect of State aid granted, to initiate a so-called in-depth investigation procedure following the expiry of the individual deadlines for the fulfilment of the individual undertaking. It is therefore a normal step in the process of assessing the State aid granted, as well as a perfectly normal step in the process of assessing the appropriateness of the proposed change of commitments. We have received a reply from the European Commission on 26 January, and we have more than a month's time to respond to the European Commission's statements or conclusions, and the Government intends to do so. In the meantime, further discussions with the European Commission are taking place on the search for solutions that would be acceptable to both sides. And in this sense, the very constructive nature of the dialogue is not equal to the simplicity of the dialogue and the simplicity of the solutions proposed, but I understand the concept of constructiveness mainly in the sense that we understand the arguments of both sides and that we are working together to find the way that would be most appropriate to address, on the one hand, the concerns that the European Commission has with regard to the completion of the State aid procedure, and on our part to ensure those fundamental direction of governance with this capital investment of the country to which we are committed in the pursuit of our interest. The government did not give up or propose to cancel the sale of NLB, but proposed in its formal proposal that the sale process could be postponed. Of course, such a procedure is always linked to certain compensatory measures. And I myself understand the European Commission's conclusions, in particular, that we need to work even more intensively to determine these additional compensatory measures. In any case, as I have already mentioned, we will prepare a formal response to the European Commission's statements by the end of February, and in the meantime we will hold a series of discussions with the European Commission and continue our dialogue to find a suitable solution after the response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u73	The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u74	Yeah, sure. Thank you very much, distinguished President of the National Assembly, for the word to complete the answer. See, Madam Minister, you begin where the European Commission has already exceeded this response in its press statements. I will quote, the European Commission wrote: “Noting that Slovenia has not fulfilled its commitments, the State aid to NLB from 2013 has not been implemented legally.” What deal? You can negotiate now and so on, but the European Commission has already said in its statement to the public that this is illegal. Secondly, when we are talking about this additional proposal that you have proposed, the European Commission reiterated its view that they have examined these alternative measures proposed by Slovenia in December and that they doubt that the proposed measures may be equivalent to the initial sales commitments under the State aid of the New Ljubljana Bank. The European Commission is already telling us, for the first time, that we are in an illegal state, for the second time, that this alternative proposal is wrong and that there is now an in-depth investigation, not an examination or anything, but an investigation, and that this is not a normal step for the European Commission. See, the normal step of the European Commission is also to punish a Member State that does not respect commitments, according to you. And that, of course, means the return or payment of all State aid to the New Ljubljana Bank. And I want to know: Do you already have this included in the fiscal rule if Slovenia actually has to repay all State aid? Here are the numbers, see, 2.3 billion for the whole, 1.5 billion for the punishment and so on. I'm so curious: Where did you come from next, Your Honor, not that initial question?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u75	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me repeat, we are now in the stage of an exchange of views on the current situation. No one has yet issued a decision to make any State aid illegal. This is a phase that will only follow if there is no agreement. As it is said, the in-depth investigation procedure is an integral part of the procedure for determining whether or not State aid has been granted if the individual undertaking has not been fulfilled or has not been fulfilled in time. And the quoted press release does not mention that the proposed compensatory measures or other measures are inadequate, there is a question of equivalence, which means that they are not wrong in themselves and that they must be supplemented by additional or other compensatory measures. There is no speech about the return of any part of State aid, and I believe that will not happen. However, this is a completely separate procedure, followed by the decision to definitively establish that the aid in question was unlawful. And given that State aid to the New Ljubljana Bank was provided from the State budget also by the State's own borrowing on international financial markets, the payment or reimbursement of State aid granted does not in any way mean that the State must pay anyone anything from the State budget. This recovery of State aid, if it has already occurred, but as I believe it will not happen, will be found in subsequent procedures, which you know from past cases that they are neither simple nor short-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u77	The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Šircelj, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose that the National Assembly vote on this debate, i.e. from the Minister's own reply, I think it is clear that we have not simply received complete information, but also, if we have received complete information from its side, I think that, of course, one information is for the Slovenian public, the other information is that which revolves around this information web in Brussels, and another is the European Commission's opinion on what it thinks. I think that there is no sonicity and that what we might call a constructive dialogue is not easy here, but perhaps more than once this change of attitudes in Slovenia and in fact that Slovenia has not done what it should have done, which it has committed itself, simply does not give credibility to Slovenian politics in Europe and in general. The other, of course, is just stalling. The Minister has now, of course, talked about formal procedures, of course, as they are all going on, but nothing about the content with which the European Commission is actually not satisfied and, of course, nothing about timeliness, since Slovenia is in fact, I will say, in recent days, something else is proposed to the European Commission and has not fulfilled what it should. I think that these topics are important for the country of Slovenia, for the Slovenian budget and not only if you want to, for a fiscal issue, but simply credibility, a respected minister, the credibility of this country in the European world, in the foreign world, of course, when we are talking about a country that wants to have a certain reputation, meeting its commitments to which it commits.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u79	Mag. Andrej Šircelj, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13 February 2018, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Culture of Mr Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! We are now in a time of very rapid change, the elections are approaching, the coalition, the government is very quick to make laws, so it is not likely that there has been some change in this area since the submission of my parliamentary question. I wanted to ask Minister Persak about the consideration of the novel ZUJIK, which was given to the debate on January 22nd with a record short time for discussion, say until 9. February, and invite him to retreat, which he's fortunately done. When this time for discussion was over, he also withdrew it, which I welcome, but I will use this deadline to broaden my question a little bit. It is interesting that a large proportion of this ZUJIK was also based on the Proposal for a National Programme for Culture 2018-2025, which was not even considered in the National Assembly, but was confirmed. Of course, it is pointless and unacceptable to formulate legislative solutions within the framework of a strategy that is not adopted, but other than the Ministry of Culture, the amendments were opposed by all interested groups, according to the National Council for Culture, the Syndicate of Glass, the Association Society, numerous housing associations, NGOs and many other actors in the cultural sphere. I hope that the presentation of my oral question has at least contributed little to the withdrawal of this irrational proposal. I believe that Minister Peršak, in his short term, could not do everything he wanted to do and that he wanted to change things in the end. I want to know: Why did he want to do it so quickly, was it some kind of test or field probe or an attempt to get something over in the last three months? The Ministry of Culture doesn't count much, especially not enough money for culture, but I'm also interested, now that no one can really hurt you much anymore, please tell me: In spite of this economic growth, why is it that culture is one of those areas where there is no need for it? What are you going to do by the end of your term for these desperate people? We heard at a meeting of the Committee on Culture, Klemen Ramovš somehow mentioned a hunger strike so that he could at least pay with compensation for the eventual death of his credits for the festival. What about the Delak Institute, Carmino Slovenica, in short, what can you do in this short time?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u82	Mr President-in-Office. Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. First of all, with regard to this bill. Let me begin by saying that, at the Ministry, we have decided to table this proposal for some amendments to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, although it is true that, for various reasons, the national programme has not yet been adopted, but that we have decided, in particular, on the basis of the needs of specific areas, in some cases also on the grounds of the requirements coming from specific areas, or because of some of the situations that have arisen recently. Let me tell you two cases. The Cultural Chamber itself found that it no longer exists and no longer works because it is, in fact, a legal void arose concerning certain procedures which are in the interest of, in particular, housing societies in the field of culture that we wanted to solve, and this concerned three, four articles in this bill, which did not have many articles. Secondly, the members of the College of Theatres proposed or at least agreed with the proposed possible solutions to a certain level of minimal, in fact, flexibility as regards employment in public institutions, because now, for example, directors, artistic leaders are virtually unable to set up their teams to implement the programme they have run for office. There were other reasons. Let me also say this: in relation to this proposed novel, which was in a hurry to expire the mandate, we also received some positive responses and opinions, but also many times from those who eventually opposed the statements because good solutions are intended, but we are against it because it is now necessary to be against it. The reasons for the proposed changes were, as has been said, some of the facts that have also happened recently, but we wanted to, above all, to point out correctly that some of the changes that are envisaged far more far-reachingly also in the Proposal for a National Programme for Culture, which is expected to bring about the so-called reform of the system. In particular, the way in which the profession participates in decision-making processes is called evaluation of programmes and then decision-making with and so on, which was also one of the chapters of these amendments. [[Incomprehensible]] As far as the extra questions are concerned, there's not enough money. We all know there's not enough money for culture. And that I will not be misunderstood again, of course I am pleased that the extent of cultural activity in Slovenia is as it is, but the fact is that in the budget, of course, there is a strong lack of funds for such a scale of activity. Only if we wanted to allocate at least enough resources to those who had recently been disputed on the call for proposals so that they could approximately complete their programmes could we assign them somehow, say 28, perhaps 30 if we did not make one transfer to another, which is just as important and the application was 63 only on the call for proposals. If we divided these funds into 63, everyone would get 25 to 30% of what they actually need. Why is the government saving? On this subject, there was something to be heard in this room today. But I would like to say the following, no matter what, is the budget for culture this year, given the percentage of last year's budget, is, I think, the fourth budget between ministries by a percentage increase. However, as a result of the release of measures under the so-called ZUJF, there is, of course, a large part of this increase in legal obligations that cannot be avoided, but part of this increase represents the envisaged own resources and means of owning European participation [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you're requesting a supplement. Here you go, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you for what you said. Since the Prime Minister of the Government himself said that you do not enjoy his support, you can be completely honest. Your predecessor, and I'm not going to mention anyone who can't defend herself right now, is, I'm going to say, flew away because she didn't want to channel cultural resources into monitoring a mine. I want to know: What is the impact of the different lobbying in the ministry, and how is it with all these officials who are said to be in charge of the ministry, on which culturers complain a great deal? I believe that every policy brings some of its officials, and they stay there. This government has also adopted a completely unwise fiscal rule that requires us to squander even when we are doing well. Let me point out that only the Left was opposed to this fiscal rule. Because what's happening to us? It happens to us like the story of an old grandmother who died of cold and hunger, and then they saw her lying on a mattress full of money. Today we could untie a little, I know that the Minister, and we have talked about this many times, realizes that investment in culture is very important and that every euro invested in culture is multiplied, that culture could also be our export article, that it is also an environmentally sound investment and that, in fact, culture as a priority national activity should be promoted. It is sad that at the festival of culture in Cankar's home, we hear from the President of the Commission so many burning truths that I am sure we should all imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Tone Pershak, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u86	Yeah, for a little while. First, let me say that I believe that, of course, the vast majority of people who are employed at the Ministry of Culture are working hard, well and well-intentioned. Of course, each of them, like each of us, has a view of culture and of the priorities of culture, but I would hope to say that they are loyal people. At the same time, however, this must be borne in mind that the ministers in this area are changing relatively quickly and each brings its own view of culture. Lobby. In culture there are, say, one 8, 9 types of art, such larger ones, in culture there are at least three important macrosectors: art, cultural heritage and the media, and several additions such as religious communities, etc. And within this, of course, the public sectors, the non-governmental sectors, the lover culture and, more recently, the private sector, which also operates in the field of culture, are called private sectors. Everyone has their own interest, everyone sees themselves as the most important. And anyone could say he's lobbying. Although I think that by the word of the lobby, we understand, above all, those who, in the interests of the third, actually intervene in the first, not in their own interest. If the directors of public institutions come to me, somehow I don't understand it as lobbying, at least as far as I'm concerned, I understand it as a visit that comes out of a need. And if they come from the non-governmental sector, the same. Of course, I can say that all sectors are underpaid. This is the curse of a small market, not to say a small country and a small number of people, who, on the one hand, if they want to have an equal dialogue with other cultures, must, in fact, have a larger scale of culture than any larger countries, proportionately, but have no market to at least some extent to replace public resources or resources from other sources. And this is a mystery, which then ends, as you said, with an investment in culture, and it is important that the public recognises the importance of this investment. How many people in Slovenia believe in the rationale of this investment if a study has shown that most people believe that the country gives between €5 million and €25 million for culture. So that's what it says. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u87	Mrs. Violeta Tomic, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u88	Thank you. Of course, I would like to discuss this. When I was talking about lobbying, I never thought of any cultural section. Of course, I am talking about lobbyists outside the cultural sphere, such as mines and similar things could be listed. You mentioned religious communities. Now I listen all the time to how the self-employed, the non-governmental, how many more there are and how hard it is to finance them. There is never any statistics as much as the number of employees in different religious communities who are also financed from the cultural budget. Each self-employed person is subject to the need to prove excellence by following the censorship so that he can lose the right to pay the contributions. They don't. Let us then become at least equal, for if we place on the weight now, whether it is necessary to finance so many cultures or so many religious communities. I think a culturer's worth at least enough to take care of culture. There are many of them and many of them are forced espions, one-person espions that work in impossible situations, half of them earn less than the minimum, and one-third live below the poverty threshold. “Blessed is one who deals with singing”, Prešeren is current. Of course, they're multiplying because they still can't get a job at the institutes. Once we're outlawed, then we can hope that this sphere settles, but not before. This is a very complex topic, so I think it deserves a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Madam Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13. February, in the framework of the vote. Mag. Mr Aleksander Kavčič will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen and Ms Andreja Katič, Minister for Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, Irena Majcen and Mrs Andreja Katič would like to raise a question with regard to the Government's planned fire safety measures, in particular those facilities which contain objects that are potentially hazardous to the environment and human health. Last year, unfortunately, it burned several times in facilities where waste or hazardous substances were stored. I also attended one of those fires myself when I was on this burning ground and also talked to firefighters, civil protection and citizens who were monitoring the accident there. But while natural and other disasters are also an integral part of our lives, they are not self-evident and all possible measures must be taken to prevent them. In particular, our concern for fire safety should be aimed at facilities that we know are in their possession substances or objects that are particularly problematic to the environment in the event of a fire. Let me point out only the fact that when I was talking to firefighters and civil protection representatives at the scene of this accident, they were raising the following questions that I am somehow creating for you, distinguished ministers, and they were running in this sense: Is it planned to amend the laws or regulations and to adopt specific measures to increase fire safety in such facilities? According to the Fire Safety Act, the inspection activities were carried out by fire protection inspectors. In your opinion, would it make sense to reconsider the re-establishment of such a specialised inspection, or are you thinking of strengthening the Slovenian Inspectorate for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in the Field of Fire Safety? And in the following order: What other preventive measures have you already taken or are you planning to propose? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andreja Katič, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. First of all, the Department of Natural and Other Disaster Protection covers the area of fire protection. In 1994, the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters was renamed the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, thus obtaining certain additional tasks in the field of protection against natural and other disasters, as well as in the area of protection against drowning. However, if we look at the statistics, still the most attention is paid to the fire protection inspectors. If we look only in 2017, 86.2 % of all tasks and 3 000 600 checks were carried out in this area. In addition, in view of the fires witnessed, 100 additional controls were carried out in hazardous waste collection, processing and storage facilities and 20 additional facilities identified as a source of minor risks. Also in 2018 we plan from 3 000 500 to 3 000 800 such inspections, it is precisely in the field of fire protection, and additionally, inspectors are members of the government intervention group, where they plan for the next two years, I think, this year and the second year, a review of the circus of 700 establishments with environmental permits issued. In this context, we also count on three additional inspectors, at least as envisaged by the Ministry of Public Administration as regards the human resources plan. As I said before, by enforcing the new construction law of 1 Peter 1: 6. 2018 has also received additional new tasks, which are already planned in the work plan of the Inspectorate for Natural and Other Accidents, but will be able to be carried out after 1. 6. 2018 forwards. I would point out, however, that fire safety starts by itself when it comes to putting objects into space, then even in the construction itself. And that the Ministry of Defence or the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has also adopted a programme of protection against natural and other disasters for 2016-2022, within its competences, to ensure the systematic planning and implementation of certain measures. The activities of the USSR which it would highlight include, in particular, training, training of authorised officials to take action in fires, public awareness, prevention – which we place very high emphasis on, planning fire protection measures from the responsibility and competence of the owner or manager of an individual facility, we have also put in place additional requirements for the additional training of employees to carry out the first evacuation and also to put out the initial fires. The news is also relevant for the inspection or testing of fire extinguishers, including in the Fire Regulations, specific requirements for surfaces for fire extinguishers, for evacuations. Always, after every fire, after any natural or other accident, there is a special evaluation of how it happened. In this context, we are making individual proposals to amend the rules in this area. As regards the planned changes in the coming period, we will propose a change in the scope of the review and testing of the integrated systems of active fire protection, the assessment of the fire risk of the parties, also on the basis of fire protection, and will also pay particular attention in the future to the awareness of both the inhabitants and the owners, the operators of the facility, the implementation of preventive measures and the implementation of personal and mutual protection measures. So much from our department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u94	Dear President! Dear Member of the Mags. Alexander Kavčič, thank you for asking. At the Ministry of Environment and Space we are responsible for the preparation of construction and technical solutions in the field of fire safety, this area is regulated by the Fire Safety Regulations in buildings. At the time of adoption of this Regulation, technical guidelines for construction, DSG 1-001, were also adopted. These technical guidelines have already been updated twice, and this year, or the first half of this year, we plan to update these guidelines. In particular, we have found that for external areas - these are construction and engineering facilities - all technical requirements in the technical guidelines are not so determined to prevent fires in their operation. We will pay the highest attention to this content in the preparation of the amendments. [[End of discussion warning sign]] Maybe even further.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mag. Coffin, will you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u96	Thank you very much. In order to complete the question and your answer, I would like to point out something. Of course, thank you for your answers by now. But what does it show? There's a fire coming out, especially in this case of mine, which I'm exposing, which is being planted. Of course, this is true, as you said, and I agree, I absolutely support it. But the problem is when the fire is set. What happens then? The local fire brigade, or the nearest voluntary fire company, rushes to the rescue first, starts to fire, then all the other fire brigades come in later, and everyone fires. In this case, 500 tons of paraffins have simply been burned, plus electrons, resulting in the burning of heavy metals. We know what this means for the environment, and we know what this means for human health. What do I want to point out? It shall then be deleted and the costs shall be added. The costs, however, represent the burden of the fire company or brigade and, consequently, of the local community. The problem I see is arson. It is that - now I give the initiative, question or whatever - where the insurance company should first pay compensation to the local community or the fire company, the brigade, whatever you want, and then to the owner who insured the property or who burned it. This is a broader form of this issue, which I think is problematic, as the burnings in Slovenia are clearly very common in recent times. In this regard, I would like to make a comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u98	Thank you. Now it would be difficult to give a concrete answer as to how insurance companies could be negotiated or how individual fire brigades have concluded insurance. But you have seen what is happening, and the Ministry of Defence or the Department of Protection and Rescue has actively engaged with professional firefighters in the regime of the relationship, as a result of what unfortunately happened in Celje. We'll look into it. Now, from the question that you submitted at first, this was not understood, so unfortunately I will not be able to answer here now, but we will send you a written answer and, of course, even as part of this, if we are now talking with insurance companies and also with local communities that are the primary contractors in this area, of course, in the part that we have the GESHP or the units of wider importance of the Ministry of Defence, we can also include this insurance system in this insurance if it is not yet regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Vice President! Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! My question concerns small hydro power plants. We know that in Slovenia there is a major problem with the construction of these because of unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles, due to the country's insubordination to this area. There is much talk about what the future is, what the future is mainly about energy, that we need green-oriented energy, that we need energy production, a way to generate energy, which, of course, will be the least harmful to the environment. In line with the requirements of Directive 2009/28 on the promotion of the use of renewable energy, Slovenia has a national target of at least 25%. The share of EEE in final gross energy consumption by 2020 and 2016 was only 21.3% and the target of the forthcoming EU-level legislation is now 35% of the share of renewable resources by 2030. The data thus shows that the situation in this regard is catastrophic for us and that we are lagging behind the commitments we have made ourselves. Unfortunately, it's not the only case, it's the other way around. We are trying to reduce the backlog by planning projects such as the Mura hydro power plant, which oppose both locals and naturalists and others because of its potential negative environmental impacts. There are many other solutions that are environmentally more environmentally friendly, including, as I mentioned earlier, just small hydropower plants, which represent a relatively small intervention in the environment, but statistics record virtually zero growth in recent years. Despite the fact that we have more than enough geography for this energy source, which is well established abroad in developed countries such as Switzerland and Austria, the government of Mr Cerar is deliberately stopping this area because it is not trying to simplify the procedures for obtaining permits for the establishment of small hydropower plants. I think that a year or two ago there has also been a debate on this subject in the Committee on Infrastructure or the Environment and Space, and even after that discussion things are not going in the right direction or there is no improvement. That is why, Madam Minister, in these three, four months, as long as you remain in your post as Minister of Environment and Space in the Government of Mira Cerar, I am interested in: What will you do to reduce bureaucratic barriers and reduce bureaucratic barriers and reduce the number of necessary permits to simplify changes in spatial plans, how will it be arranged for this segment to cost more loans, so that more subsidies will be granted, especially in order to grant more concessions to small hydropower plants by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u102	Dear Member, Mr Jan Mahnic, thank you for the question. In your statement, we can somehow focus on the ministries that deal with this issue. Energy is certainly that part of the Ministry of Infrastructure in terms of providing these financial resources, planning, and, finally, the government's energy concept is the result of their work. And in this concept there are, of course, renewable energy sources, written in these percentages of which you talked about, of course, where not only small hydropower plants belong, but many other energy objects. Finally, the construction of large hydroelectric power plants for Slovenia is still important and this government has invested large financial resources to build the Brežica accumulation, and lower-Savish hydroelectric power plants have built an energy-generating facility, currently in the confirmation phase of the investment plan for the construction of the Mokrice hydropower plant. So to tell the government that the building of renewable energy energy is not ambitious enough, I think it is not going well. As far as small hydropower plants are concerned, you might initially take the information that there are already approximately 600 in Slovenia, but about 600 water rights for small hydropower plants. And if we compare this number exactly with neighbouring Austria, where there are about 3,000 small hydropower plants, we can find that, given the size and configuration of the territory, Austria and I are comparable. Small hydropower plants are, of course, built on watercourses, where it is primarily necessary to provide enough water to make the hydroelectric power plant economically viable. In ensuring this sufficient flow of water, however, we also find, in some ways, climate change has changed circumstances that many months in a year, more and more when this flow is not sufficient or the capacity for water, for the flow itself, for the flow of water to these rivers is poor, too weak. However, this part is important from another point of view, this is in terms of conservation of nature, that a minimum flow of water is maintained in the stream of water that ensures the survival of organisms in this river. It is therefore inconceivable to say that the number of applications currently in place is high, that there are many applications relating to the single watercourse, which means that these applicants, of course, are not satisfied with competition, or that they can choose to repeat the procedure in their appeals proceedings, because they are not able to grant this water right to all applicants on one watercourse. It is also true that in spatial plans it is necessary to have a basis for the subsequent acquisition of a building permit. Some congregations did not deal with this issue in practical terms, and this is also the responsibility of local communities. As far as interested people are concerned, I do not want to do advertising, I say again, we have a lot to play, but I say what needs to be gained – water permit and water consent, now that the Water Directorate has been established. Speaking of nature, it must also be said that natural consensus and environmental consensus must be obtained. And with these documents, it's possible to obtain a building permit from an administrative unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, you're requesting a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u104	Well, now that you've said the last time, we've only come to the point. I'll give you a little bit more information on what it is to focus on small hydropower plants, which is also my question. What do you need? Opinion of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Nature, the opinion of the fishing family and the fisheries union, the opinion of the water economy, the concession by the Government which is difficult to obtain, the water permit, the water consent, the amendment of the OPPN, the building permit, the operating permit, the status of the qualified manufacturer. Madam Minister, these are bureaucratic obstacles, which are totally unnecessary and which prevent Slovenia from being somehow a leader in this area, in the field of green technology, in particular in the field of small hydropower plants, not to mention that we have an unnecessary restriction on the flow of water. Completely unnecessary restrictions on the flow of water, because someone probably won't go to put a small hydro power plant where things won't be profitable. Probably everyone knows what the flow of water is where the interest is to put the matter, and there is no need to add additional restrictions to it. And by placing restrictions on flow, in fact, the entire field of possible sites of small hydroelectric power plants has been reduced to a few rivers. That is why there are so many roles and, therefore, also mutual competition and the problem, as you yourself said, of competition. When you release the water flow restriction when you arrange it, you will agree on more favourable loans for larger investments or government subsidies, especially when you reduce all these unnecessary procedures where bureaucrats at the Department of Nature Protection are deliberately blocking some things, and then we will be able to talk about taking measures that are going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u106	Member of the Commission, all aspects of the work of the Ministry of the Environment must be taken into account. Of all that you have listed, fishermen are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and in any way fishermen have already awarded concessions in many watercourses or ponds and are, of course, those who give consent. We both know that if the water doesn't run down the stream, but it runs through a canal that fills a little hydropower plant, then there's not enough water in the stream and not only can they not survive the fish, but it turns around and can't survive the whole biotope. I agree with what the government has to take care of, but financial resources, subsidies are indeed a matter of the Ministry of Infrastructure and not ours. For the Ministry of Environment and Space, however, I would say that our concern is, that is, the Ministry, that nature is also as little affected as possible. We agree and, of course, we favor renewable energy sources, but not in a way that nature is disregarded. Maybe that's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Mahnic, please, you have a request for a procedural hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u108	Yes, thank you, Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the Minister's response or, in particular, on the potential that Slovenia unfortunately does not exploit in the field of renewable energy in the area of the construction of small hydropower plants. I agree with what the Minister said, that we must also look at nature, and that we must also take account of the fishing families, but unfortunately this is not done when watercourses are being regulated. We know that some water economies are being severely criticized by fishermen and fishing families because they are carrying out disproportionate interventions into watercourses. If we compare on one side the interventions that are being carried out and, of course, I support them, because, finally, it is a matter of preventing significantly greater damage that can be done by centuries-old waters or, unfortunately, we can already talk about annual floods on the one hand, and the intervention in the nature of the small hydropower plant, Madam Minister, is practically incomparable here. If you go to Google and if you enter a small hydroelectric power plant, you have pictures, you have examples of how the example is arranged so that you can run a virtually parallel watercourse where there is no problem for fish. Where there is no problem for fish and I believe that there is no problem with fishing families. I do not say, Madam Minister, that the problem is with fishing families, because I am sure that if one who builds a small hydroelectric power plant who needs land first, then needs acceptance in the municipal spatial plan. If the fishing family shows that the matter will have a positive impact on the environment first, as defined by the small hydropower plant, and secondly that there will be no negative environment for fish, it is likely that if the fishing family tells them to sponsor another picnic per year, there will be no problem for fishing families. But there is a problem in the institutions and other bodies that are in the composition of your ministry and other ministries. Yeah, it's not all up to your department. I agree with that, but somehow I have talked about the whole approach, where the Ministry of Infrastructure is also involved in your ministry and if we are talking about the granting of credits, more funding for subsidies and not least, which is more effective, faster and more numerous granting of concessions with you and Mr Gasperšič, we have somehow rounded up all three ministries, which are key. In short, it is a real opportunity, it is a green technology that Slovenia could take advantage of, so I propose a debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, February 13th. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present, distinguished Madam Secretary! My question concerns the absence of adequate regulation and professional supervision, which causes more and more patients to be exposed to inhuman and unethical health treatment when patients who cannot breathe without additional oxygen are subject to compulsory health insurance only by an electric appliance or just an oxygen bomb. The less wealthy we cannot afford to rent a safety oxygen bomb are therefore sentenced to respiratory distress, asphyxiation, or even death due to strangulation. That's why I'm asking you: Will you take the initiative to extend the rights of compulsory health insurance by preventing the inhumane treatment of serious patients when you need both an oxygen appliance and an oxygen bomb? It seems amazing to me that the entire bureaucratic health apparatus is insensitive to those citizens who do not have access to compulsory health insurance rights because of poverty, so I've probably been asking you for hundreds of years: Will you and when will you save the inhumane treatment of the poorest citizens so that they too will receive treatment from compulsory health insurance? Even in the last proposal of the Health and Health Insurance Act, you have not addressed this problem, although I have often warned that public money is spent needlessly on professional supervision of the Medical Chamber, as it is not properly carried out, this area has not yet been regulated, so some patients are receiving inhuman treatment. In my letter I gave you an example of an unethical medical treatment of a severely ill hospital in the Clinical Department for Pulmonary Diseases and Allergy of UKC Ljubljana or at the Urgenca UKC in Ljubljana. I want to know: Will you require professional supervision of the section and the work of Urgence at UKC? If I explain in more detail that the public will also know what this is really about. After the story of a grandson of an 80-year-old hospital who barely survived a year ago a severe heart valve damage weighing only 37 kilograms today, I introduced you to an unethical medical treatment received by his grandmother. Because of valve damage, water is collected in Grandma’s lungs, so every three weeks the grandmother has to pump water from the lungs into the Clinical Department for Pulmonary Diseases and Allergy of UKC Ljubljana. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'll pick it up later. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Ambassador Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, thank you for the question. I'll give you an answer. First of all, I will express my regret and concern if the event you described and also mentioned to us in the written proposal of the question took place in such a way as to create additional unnecessary problems for the hospital. Any inhuman or unethical behaviour of healthcare professionals over patients is unacceptable and should, of course, be duly sanctioned. Derogations from established professional and ethical criteria and principles should not take place. Each patient must be given quality, safe and appropriate medical treatment. Therefore, with regard to the treatment of an 80-year-old lady with heart valve damage, as you state, I will request more detailed explanations from UKC Ljubljana and on the basis of these findings I will find further action. You know that, in accordance with my powers as Minister of Health, I have the possibility of requiring either internal professional supervision by consulting or external professional supervision by the Medical Chamber. However, I cannot agree with you in that part of the question that rejections are happening because of lack of regulation. It follows from the existing legislation that health workers must act in accordance with the accepted medical doctrine and the medical deontology code, as defined in their professional and ethical principles, and must treat all people under the same conditions when dealing with their work, in the same manner, and respect their constitutional and legal rights. The only measure of advantage is the need for medical attention or the condition of the patient. As you certainly know, I have already strengthened the supervisory function of the Ministry, as well as the Chambers, during my term of office. As you know, with the amendment of the Health Act, we have introduced a new integrated area of supervision, so-called system controls linking different types of surveillance, all in order to realize the rights we have under the law. Now, about that medical device you mentioned. Let me say that, in accordance with the provisions of the Health and Health Insurance Act, the rights belonging to individual insured persons are defined and further defined in the Compulsory Health Insurance Regulations issued so far by the Health Insurance Office. These rules already provide that insured persons with respiratory problems are already included in the right to medical devices in the oxygen concentrator, in the airway maintenance apparatus, in the mechanical ventilation apparatus, in the breathing aid apparatus with positive air pressure and breath pressure. The protected person may also be treated with oxygen at home as part of the right to a medical device by means of an oxygen concentrate or other source of oxygen. The type or type of medical device depends on the health status of each insured person and on the specifics of the disease facing the insured person, and the assessment of the need for a medical device is made by the selected physician. In this case, probably those 80-year-old ladies. I must also point out that under the Health and Health Insurance Act, all groups of persons, including those who are either socially disadvantaged or unemployed, are involved in compulsory health insurance. You know that such insured persons are paid by the budget or by the Ministry of Health of their services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u114	Thank you so much for the answers so far. I must say that, as far as these compulsory insurance rights are concerned, I have asked the Director General of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, and he has specifically told me that the person is entitled to only one aid. So I'm asking you to check it out, because it's putting people in a lot of trouble to at least get it done. As far as the lack of regulation is concerned, I think that the fact that those people who are less wealthy do not have access to all compulsory insurance rights indicates that there is a lack of regulation. But I would like to continue with the case that I described, because people will know what is actually going on. In fact, I said that every three weeks a lady has to take a puncture of her lungs. However, since pleural puncture sets were not available at the time of the puncture, the clinical department repeatedly canceled the puncture. When the grandmother was then brought to Urgenco UKC in Ljubljana because of the deterioration, the punctures were not carried out there, and there was a shortage of rooms in the department. Multiple transports of the suffering hospital to Ljubljana to the clinical ward and to the E.R. and back home were unacceptable, instead of immediately doing what the hospital needed and what was clearly evident from the tests, this is a puncture of water from the lungs. Thus, the puncture of the left lung was carried out seven days and the right eleven days later, as it should have been. It seems unacceptable to me the suffering caused by doctors in this hospital, and, of course, at the same time her family suffered. So I hope you'll really take care of it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u116	Thanks again for saying that. As I have already said, I will ask the UKC authorities to explain in more detail what was going on, whether the particulars are accurate, what were the medical indications and the degree of urgency as to whether the hospital was accepted in time or not. Once again, I would say that the rights are uniformly defined in the current legislation and rules for all insured persons in Slovenia and there is no discrimination in this sense as to whether someone can get one, two, three such or other aids. What is really controversial in terms of constitutionality is what we are solving in this new proposal of the Health and Insurance Act, so that health rights should be defined and defined in the law itself and not in the rules of the Health Insurance Office, which are confirmed by the Assembly and are being supplemented and amended in the light of professional knowledge. However, after this inquiry, I will let you know what really happened when this patient is being treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl will ask the Minister of Health, Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, and the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked a similar question before, or only to the Minister of Health, but unfortunately nothing has moved to date in this area. I'm talking about helicopter emergency medical care. As you know, I come from the Vipava Valley and I point out the problems that are particularly affecting the municipalities of Ajdovščina and the municipality of Vipava, and I also draw attention to projects that might be well established. There is very much traffic going through our places, especially the municipality of Ajdovščina is geographically and demographically very diverse. As you know, we also face the hurricane storm several times, then we are cut off practically from the rest of Slovenia, which is why the economy is in loss several times a year, of course there are also great problems with access to rapid medical care. Here I would like to point out that for some time there has been talk about the construction of a helidrome in Ajdovščina, for the establishment of such a helidrome is practically all established or prepared in some way, given that there is an airport in Ajdovščina. According to my information, they gained the views of everyone who resides there or who is involved in managing the airport, but things are not moving anywhere. Let me mention that for the construction of the helidrome and thus for rapid assistance in the event of accidents in Ajdovščina, both police officers and firefighters, mountain paramedics and airmen are also the emergency service of the Medical Home of Ajdovščina. That is why I am now interested in this question for both ministers, first of all from the point of view of rapid assistance to the Minister of Health: [[…]] Does the project support the construction of helidrome in Ajdovščina? For the Minister of Defence, however, the same issue is in view of the fact that I think that, at least so, the land where this could be established is owned by the Ministry of Defence. If you support this project: Why has this project not yet been launched and established as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u120	Hello again.Oh, my God! Thank you for your word. Dear Mrs Eva Irgle, I must say that I understand this as your initiative, because unfortunately this information to me Nor to anyone to ask has called for a certain community to have a helioport at the airport in Ajdovščina, which, of course, would be necessary, if I understand correctly, another additional helicopter in Slovenia, which, if I interpret your initiative, would be stationed in Ajdovščina. [[…]] You know that we now have two bases for helicopter emergency assistance; one is in Brnik, which supports or provides this helicopter emergency assistance and also the Mountain Rescue Service for this entire area of Western Slovenia, but until – I think – 2016, until our mandate, even Maribor and the whole of North East Slovenia virtually did not have this helicopter emergency assistance. We together with all the competent authorities, so the Ministry of the Interior, the police, the defence, have also managed to provide one helicopter for the base in Maribor, so that the people of northeastern Slovenia have also received this assistance, which somehow by our regulation means that this response time should be about 10 minutes. So in this regard – and I take this as your initiative – helipads in Ajdovščina this moment is something I can say or give an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andreja Katič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u122	Thank you. Member of the Commission, if you had more answers to your question, I could also give you more specific answers. As far as I know, the Ministry of Defence, the Slovenian Army and all local communities are very well co-operated and we are currently resolving all open issues relating to land management. We have recently signed a contract in Ljubljana with the Municipality of Ljubljana, and we have finally arranged the land register for Edward Pepper's army. Tomorrow we are signing a similar contract in Maribor, so we will also simply finally arrange the Maribor military station as far as the land book condition is concerned. I also believe here, with the Ajdovščina Congregation, that we can work together. Let me, as always, tell all the mayors and as mayors probably already know if there are any procedures at the Ministry of Defence or in the Slovenian Army for too long to address me directly through my e-mail address and, in essence, we can speed up the proceedings. However, given that you have taken advantage – I would use this question of yours to praise the activity of the Slovenian Army and the transport itself. In the last year, 313 actions were carried out on HNMP and secondary transport, as regards mountain rescue 141 actions, it is said that the total was 454 actions; but I say, this is only for the Slovenian Army, but not for the Slovenian police. The Slovenian army covers this part of Slovenia from the base in Brnik, and in the event of the collapse of the air force as well as the Stajer part. The Slovenian Armed Forces helicopters meet all technical requirements under European rules, including EASA certificates, and can also implement solutions in the mountains in the future, as well as the HMNP. But I didn't quite understand your question in that sense, whether you're just talking about building a helidrome or a heliport; that's where helicopters are supposed to land. This was also evident from the response of a colleague of the Minister of Health that we were unable to understand whether you were proposing – and I am not aware of this – that another phase, like in Brno, Maribor, would be carried out in Vipava or Ajdovščina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irgle, will you request a supplement to the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank you for these two answers, but I must say that I am the Minister of Health, and I think that some year and a half ago or even two years ago, I have already asked an oral question about the establishment of the helidrome. This is because I have been informed from this end of ours, that it might not be bad, that it would be possible to establish itself, given that we are already in great difficulty because of the things mentioned earlier and that all too often count those really minutes or seconds to save someone’s life. I am convinced that it is in everyone's interest to do this, how things will go away, of course, also depends on you, who actually have scissors and canvas in your hands. As far as the establishment of this is concerned, I must say that I think even, according to my information, your State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence has said at the municipal level that this is to be done. So I asked whether this is true or not, because it seems important to me, given that some people have been warning all the time that it would not be bad, because the first helicopter aid in this sense is in Šempeter near Nova Gorica and if the situation, in particular as I mentioned earlier, is difficult, difficult, then such helicopter assistance comes very well if it is fast and if it happens as soon as possible. Given that we already have an airport in Ajdovščina, it may be important to consider such an establishment. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Katich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u126	Thank you. If the Secretary of State said so at the municipal celebration, then he certainly holds this information. Once again, my initiative is to the mayor of the municipality: if he thinks that the procedures are going too long at the Ministry of Defence, he will turn directly to me, and we will certainly be able to speed up the procedures. Wherever possible, the Ministry of Defence, the Slovenian Armed Forces, are very cooperative with local communities. And right, as far as saving human lives is concerned, assistance – one third of all their tasks the aviation unit does for essentially civilian purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bačič will ask the Minister of Health of Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc and Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Mrs. Brenčič is away.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! Dear Madam Secretary! I regret that you are the only one present at the meeting today, so I expect the Minister of Education, Science and Sport to provide me with a written answer. In July last year, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Integrated Early Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs. The law arouses the high expectations of the parents of these children, and the solutions it brings must be approached as soon as possible. The Act is intended to apply on 1 January 2019 in view of the many preparations and adjustments that are still required. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: What activities have you already carried out at the Ministry of Health in order to enable the Law on Integrated Early Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs to be applied on 1 January 2019?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u130	Thank you once again for your words and also thank you Members Maria Bachič for your question! At the Ministry of Health, we follow the timeline and fulfill all the tasks assigned to us by this law. As you rightly mentioned, it will start to apply fully on 1 January 2019, but a number of tasks must be carried out before that. Thus, for the smooth entry into force of the Comprehensive Early Treatment of Pre-school Children Act with special needs on 13 December last year, we established the Coordinating Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for this early treatment of children, on 12 January this year the Council met at the Ministry of Health and agreed at its first meeting and agreed to cooperate in the implementation of the Early Treatment Act. This is the case for at least three ministries and a number of institutions and services, where all activities and actions need to be coordinated in order to achieve a truly comprehensive early treatment of children. On 10 January this year, an Interdepartmental Working Group was appointed to prepare a sub-legislative act pursuant to Article 10(4) of this Act, which will set out the organisation, the more detailed tasks, the method of work, the procedures for informing the multi-disciplinary team of all institutions dealing with these children. The first meeting of this Interdepartmental Group was also held on 31 January this year. The working group found that, as a basic starting point for its work, it needs information on the number of these children with special needs in Slovenia. Since all children with special needs do not yet have guidance decisions during the pre-school period, the working group estimated that the most relevant data on the number of these children in Slovenia with decisions issued at the age of 12 by orientation category for the last 10 years would be. Why? In order to assess the actual needs for such activities for these children, the working group could do so. For this reason, the group has already requested such information from the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Health, as coordinator of the project, will also be financed from the European Cohesion Policy, from the perspective of 2014-2020, through a public call for the co-financing of this integrated treatment of children and the strengthening of the competences of professional workers and the assistance of parents of this operational programme or pilot project to be implemented. The project implementation process on the basis of the invitation to tender already opened in September 2017. The first results are expected by 30 April of this year. Above all, this is a protocol on the way in which the services are involved, and in particular the clinical way in which these children are treated. The working group has already invited the expert coordinators of the pilot project to draw up these protocols of cooperation for all services and clinical routes as early as May this year. The working group will start drafting a sub-legislative act as soon as the technical content of this pilot project is presented. So we're working on a timeline. Many things have already been done, as well as good cooperation with the other two Ministers of Education and Education, as with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. I am so sure that we will be able to complete this pilot project and, if necessary, any minor changes or additions to the law in order to enforce it and that these children, together with the parents, will receive a comprehensive hearing on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Bachič, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u132	I thank the Minister very much for this part of the answer, because I think most of the work has already been done. However, I continue to ask. In agreement with the other ministers, set up a public network of centres for the treatment of these children and also sign with the ministers responsible for health care, education and work, including an agreement on cooperation in the implementation of early treatment under this law, because we know that professional co-workers come from different ministries, and I think this is also very necessary. However, I must say that although this pilot project is now under way, that all children do not receive the treatment that parents now expect because they have heard that this early treatment is going to be, and there are no professional employees everywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u134	I will also complete my answer with this additional question or explanation by the Member. It is true that, on the basis of Article 19, all three ministers responsible for health, education and social protection should sign a special agreement on cooperation in the implementation of early treatment. Let me say that this is essentially about upgrading the so-called development ambulance that already exists in our public health network or somewhere within the children's dispensaries somewhere else within the paediatric wards. Here, however, these so-called developmental outpatients will be strengthened by additional teams, it is said, including certain workers of specific specialities, because this will be a more integrated and professional treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u136	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially the Minister and both ministers! My question will be for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Mag. Dejana Židana concerning the status of farmers in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Minister! We both know, and many times in the National Assembly we have talked about the importance of agriculture in the Republic of Slovenia. I have recently asked this question to your colleague, the Minister of Labour in your government. I am particularly concerned about this issue, and we know that the status of agriculture in the Republic of Slovenia is not regulated. Recently, I noticed that two, three years ago, there were those who help in farms — especially here in the mind of a woman — about 33,000. Of course, I am very concerned about the fact that about 60 percent of these do not receive payment. That's about 18 to 19,000 of these women. We both know that there are about 67,000 farms in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, these women work, play an extremely important role on the farm, take care of the farm, part of the farm, for the family, for the children, and most of the time, when there is not enough income on the farm, they also give up on these incomes, and the percentage, as I said, between 18 and 19 thousand of these women work, they put into the family treasury — and they get nothing. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary-General: Has anything been done in this area or been prepared? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u138	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, thank you for your question. Let me start from the back maybe. At this point in Europe, about 30 per cent of farmers who run farms across all family farms are all men. It is interesting that more farms run in the eastern countries, in the western ones, in the rest of Europe, they are run by fewer. Perhaps two extreme cases: 5% in the Netherlands, 47% in Latvia. In Slovenia, however, we are on average 28.66 per cent about agricultural holdings, but this does not depend on ownership. But if we look at ownership, 20 percent of Slovenian farms are run by farmers. We also get a similar percentage by following calls. For example, at the moment, there may be current calls for young farmers, farmers who take over farms. Even within these invitations, where 810 farmers, or farmers, have applied and received approved applications, there are 158 farmers, which is a low 20 percent. We basically share farms in two groups; these are farms where farmers and farmers are fully employed and they call them professional farms abroad, and farms where agriculture is an additional activity, so that people are employed elsewhere – or in public administration, the economy, perhaps elsewhere – and they are also farming. That's important, too. The easiest information to see is how much of the so-called professional farms are, in fact, to look at how many people are insured from agriculture, because this in practice means that they are not retired, disabled, in their other functions, or as teachers or as anything else. At this point, we have people who are insured from agriculture, 11 thousand 905. Inside this is a third of farmers and two thirds of farmers. This in practice means that if we reduce this number slightly, we also see the percentage of farms that are so-called professional, in relation to all 70,000 farms, where people are protected from agricultural activity, which is currently less than 10,000 in Slovenia. We work together with farmers in a number of ways. We support their association, i.e. the Union of Rural Farmers of Slovenia, we support financial support, we also support other ways, but we also support the presence of representatives of farmers in all the bodies on which they are decided. Otherwise, we view the farms themselves — in fact, we must say — as economic operators. The farm is also an economic operator, which carries out certain broader social activities and is therefore co-financed both through direct payments, through OMD payments and through some other payments. At this point, we are asking ourselves a question, but we still have no answer, and this is a question that will also define a new agricultural policy after 2020, or like elsewhere, in the economy, even in public administration, or here we set a goal to increase the share of farmers within all the population that run farms. The easiest answer would be that this can then be done through a financial leverage, and that is that the co-financing rate where farmers are being managed is slightly increased, as well as added to the criteria. I know, Member, that I am not answering what you have already asked the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, because I can only answer what is within my competence and what we are also funding from the rural development programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek, please, please, request to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u140	Dear Minister, thank you for the first part of your answer. I have no reason to doubt your data, which you've been squeezing, but it's certainly in place. Of course, in Slovenia there is certainly a small percentage, much smaller percentage than elsewhere, carriers or carriers of farms. But I think we didn't get along perfectly, and even two months ago, we didn't get along completely with your secretary, your colleague, the secretary of employment. I don't think it's the biggest problem in Slovenia, whether the carrier is a man or a woman at the moment, I don't think it's that important. Once again, in Slovenia we have about 67,000 farms and those who are assisting family members, there were recently 33 000, and about 18,000 of those women, respected women, receive no payments, but give them to the joint treasury of these farms. Probably not the biggest problem when this woman is young, problems arise when this woman is older, of course she can't even help her farm that much anymore, and then she doesn't have any income for her age. Dear Minister, these women farmers are doing an extremely important job on the farm: help on the farm, of course, care for the family, for the children – we also find throughout this mandate that we have a large part of small farms in Slovenia – and when this small farm does not go well, first this farmer cancels his income or the part that should belong to it. Therefore, the distinguished minister, as well as your colleague, I think this question has already arisen so many times by farmers that they should [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u142	Dear Member, this question is important to me too. At that time, when you asked your question, I wondered whether, during my term of office so far, I had received any initiative that, if I understood correctly, the payment of some contributions, and probably, as I understood it, you even pointed to the work done, could take part in the Rural Development Programme. Because this is probably a question because I am the Minister responsible for implementing the Rural Development Programme. In order for me to detect, to date, such an initiative has not been taken by NGOs in our ministry. So, I am now hearing this initiative, if you want, without any difficulty, to see whether the Rural Development Programme will also allow for such interventions in the future, and if it will allow, then we can talk within the agricultural sector, whether we can participate. For we also had in the past another measure, which has a social function, and this measure was that when a young person took over the farm, we enabled his parents — or his mother or his father — to make a pension refund, even though it was not paid to the pension fund. This was until this programming period, and during this programming period such activities are no longer allowed. But once again, honourable Member, you have encouraged me, we will check the Rural Development Programme, whether it gives any extensions to co-finance or finance the payment of certain contributions. At the same time, all we need to know is that the pension contributions, the proportion of the employer, are already being reimbursed by the State for all the cases where the 11 000 are being paid to the pension fund. So if you'll excuse me, we can take a look, and if you'd like, I can answer you with a written document, or maybe on a committee sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, greeting the ministers and the Minister and something to us Members and Members of Parliament. Recently we have witnessed many speeches by the media about these virtual currencies, bitcoin and so on and various companies involved. There have been many debates in various countries, which I have seen in the media, about this legal regulation. Some tend to make it more strictly legal, one to even ban it, and China has some major concerns about it. Some information was also addressed to the public by Banka Slovenije in the media. In this regard, I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, the following questions: Are you working with Banka Slovenije and all other ministries, inter-resortically in this area, on some legal regulation of this matter? We can also talk about laws if you want. However, it is clear that in fact these cryptocurrency currencies were sometimes used for washing, in the notes, the currency that also stems from criminal acts. There's a very large gray fox here. I know that we have also had this proposal for a bill on payment services and the issue of electronic money and payment systems. But I don't know if that's enough or if we've somehow ensured that we're still at peace under all those European rules. You know what it was like with Swiss francs. And then there was somehow no more, as if it wasn't written clearly enough. There is also a gray zone, which is very dangerous, especially because every day they talk about how much profits there are and how much investment is possible. I'm afraid if we don't somehow define it as we should, we'll have the same things as the Swiss francs. At the final stage, which is the saddest, then all people will point to the country again; it is said that the country is guilty, the country must settle, the country must settle it. On my part, the question goes to you: Is this regulated as some kind of regulation and somehow proactively trying to solve it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Thank you so much for asking me that question. The challenges of systemic regulation in the area of virtual currencies are mainly the fact that technology is one that does not allow a traditional view of regulation. The traditional view of regulation is linked to the area, to jurisdiction, to the territory of each country or community of countries, while the technology of virtual currencies based on the decentralised data block chaining system is thus uncatchable. Most of the processes carried out in these transactions are anonymous or outside the jurisdiction of individual countries. In this regard, of course, country-specific regulation may have a relatively limited or very limited effect. In my firm belief, regulation is needed at global or at least at European level and individual talks in this direction are already starting. Of course, this starting point does not mean that there is no need to approach the necessary activities at national level. What has already been done on this page in Slovenia? The regulation also has several layers or more elements in this area. One is the issue of the risks to be faced or to be taken into account by those wishing to invest in virtual currencies. From this point of view, the Financial Stability Committee, which is responsible for such issues in Slovenia, dealt with the matter on 9 October last year. In addition to the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Slovenia, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Securities Market Agency participate in the Committee on Financial Stability. The Financial Stability Committee has issued a special warning on the risks faced by participants in virtual currency schemes. This is the first step and this warning is repeated by all competent supervisors or regulators on different occasions in different ways. Of course, it is also necessary to focus on some other elements related to cryptocurrency that you have mentioned in your question. This is the area of prevention and detection of money laundering or terrorist financing, and virtual currencies in this area pose a particular challenge. The Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which was adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, also addresses this issue. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is in close contact with Slovenian stakeholders in the area of trade in virtual currencies and is also negotiating a system of cooperation with them. However, as far as the legal arrangements themselves are concerned, these persons are also identified by a series of undertakings to implement measures to detect and prevent money laundering. In view of the more comprehensive regulation, it should also be noted that the Slovenian Securities Market Agency, which also operates within the framework of the European Organisation of ESMA, is working intensively to prepare this specific regulatory environment. It also contributes from its perspective to the Financial Administration. Of course, I am talking about the regulatory segments for now, but not comprehensive regulation, so, as we say, an international approach would be more appropriate, and the approach must be such that it does not undermine any development of modern technology, but must provide investors with adequate security.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u148	Thank you. I add so much, I absolutely agree with you. It is clear to me, therefore, that this business is boundless, that it takes place globally, that it does not take into account any regulations, state or law. Therefore, with so much more attention, it is necessary to act that this is somehow framed into some normal things, because we know that when the market does not have at least some basic framework, then it kind of goes crazy and then there are no limits and then there are various balloons, as we were given in 2008. On the other hand, I know that the Government also has this office for electronic warfare, which Mr Christmas has and is supposed to be some kind of extension. There is probably also a possibility that we might take a step further on this matter. However, it is absolutely necessary that Slovenia as such, because it is also promoted as a country of virtual and very advanced trade and with all these companies that are successful in us, have extraordinary success – what needs to be said is that the environment is right – perhaps the country must also have a supervisory function on the one hand. I think we both agree that this must then be put somehow into the European space and into the world if you want. That's how I think we have the same perspective here.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u150	Thank you very much. In this regard, I would just like to point out that the area or concept of electronic money in the first part of your question is not identical to the concept of cryptocurrency, and cybersecurity is not the same as the safe operation of cryptocurrency. Thus, we must be very careful here, in which direction we are thinking when we are talking about regulation. I would also like to add to this the information that the Government appointed a working group in November last year to prepare an action plan for Slovenia – a country of start-ups, and in this context the right balance between regulation or restrictions on the one hand, ensuring the safety of such operations, while at the same time being sufficiently relaxed in regulation, is being sought so as not to prevent the further development of these modern technologies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the women's part of the ministerial work is more sustainable than your male colleagues, so congratulations on your endurance. I would like to ask the following questions, Madam Minister for Environment and Space. On the table we have the Act on the Recovery of the Effects of Excessive Environmental Loads in the Celje Cauldron. This proposal is very, very similar to the proposal for a law or Decision on areas of maximum environmental burden and on a programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley. Of course, there are many proposals, we adopt laws and so on. In particular, in this law to improve the state of the environment in the Upper Mežiški valley, I am interested in: Is this law or this decree being implemented in practice? Perhaps the Minister has only been indicative for the last three years: How is this decision implemented in practice? Otherwise, this, I would say, very short, determines the area in the Upper Mežiški valley, where the area number one, zone number two, is defined. Then there are measures to improve the quality of the environment, which mentions nine measures. Of course, all these measures must be in line with local communities, that is to say with the local community, and the implementation time is from 2007 to 2022, that is to say for 15 years. We are now somewhere in the middle or somewhere between 60 and 70 percent of the implementation of these measures. Maybe only roughly for the last three years: How is this decree implemented in the Mežiška Valley? Is he operational, is he getting rid of things and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u154	Dear Vice President. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, honourable Member, thank you for the question. This decree also provides funding for the implementation of the programme at the Ministry of Finance. We are carrying out this business, even allowing it, for at least the last two years, we have provided slightly more resources than was envisaged by the decree of these years. Indeed, in the past, due to the financial distress of the country, the Ministry did not provide sufficient funds. This year, I can say that we are providing an additional €750,000, as far as is necessary under the programme or the decree, for additional tasks and for the implementation of additional measures in this area. Local communities, the Municipality of Montenegro in Koroškem and Mežica contribute greatly to the design of the programme, and the National Institute for Public Health is also preparing a number of guidelines or measures that need to be implemented on the basis of experience. In this part, I am mainly talking about providing personal hygiene, not as much as hygiene, but as ensuring that children are not playing or playing in a game in an environment that is, of course, burdened with lead, and then ensuring that they are cleaned; not only with their hands, but also with their clothes. In this part, much awareness is needed of the living population there. It is true, however, that during this year, the National Institute for Public Health will carry out a preliminary study, following the same methodology as those carried out in 2008 and 2014. The study is very important in terms of a more qualitative comparison of the situation and the assessment of the progress made. Such a study allows for more analysis in the wider population of children, which also leads to stronger conclusions than annual monitoring of lead content in the blood of children, where this is the number of children that parents bring to the test itself, depending on their will and the number of children also fluctuates. It is true, however, that it is because of the awareness of parents in this area that they are moving in a positive direction; hence, more and more are those parents who bring their children into the analysis. This year this study will be produced and will allow comparison of the situation with 2008 and 2013 and comparison of the situation in the upper Mežica Valley with the neighbouring municipalities – I said that the decree covers only the Municipality of Montenegro in Koroškem and Mežica – now that two neighbouring municipalities are included. This means that when the study is produced, in the sense of decisions, I think that by the end of the year, it will be necessary to determine whether there is a need to extend the area that is already defined to the future. In our interviews with the mayors, we somehow came to that by the end of this period. until 2022. The Ministry would also provide all the missing financial resources that had not been provided in the previous period and would have been hampered by this comparison with the CEL Act. I must say, in truth, that the reasons for this decision to be adopted are something entirely different, such as, say, the Celes Cauldron. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u156	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Here the question is asked to me whether similar matters, it is said, in the case of Měžica and, of course, also the Celje Valley, whether for every threatened area to adopt a special law or to rely on the basic Law on environmental protection under Article 24 of that Act. If I somehow assess it, it is more effective in fact if it is actually adopted intentionally for each such threatened area a special law. I see things are being done in the Upper Mesa Valley. The annual planned value for this year is €750,000 for the basic part and €175 million for [[…]] Is the difference of those 425 this study, or is it also interfering with certain measures of the basic activity of the rehabilitation of this valley? Is that just the value of studying? Maybe so much if you have data here on how much this study is actually assessed, what is the value. Of course, after this study, I suppose it will be possible to assess how lead reduction is improved in the blood of children, which is also prescribed in this decree, which should fall absolutely below 100 micrograms per litre. This data will, of course, be obtained by the end of this year when this study is completed. Maybe just this answer about the study itself and of course your opinion: Do you rely on Article 25 under the basic law or for each area individually?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u158	I would say that these 475 thousand additionally provided are, of course, provided for the implementation of the measures. I am very sorry, but I do not hope to claim that this study is carried out by the National Institute for Health Protection through its programmes and is not financed by these funds. If necessary, we can answer this in writing. However, I would like to say that we have quite a few measures, including 7 areas where the overstatement of PM10 particles is also addressed by decrees. Decisions shall be adopted by the councils of the municipality, the Government shall then confirm the implementation and the measures shall be financed by the Climate Fund. Therefore, the practice shows that for individual areas where an environmental burden is established, measures can be implemented under the existing law and there is no need for new laws. The Environmental Protection Act also states that the originator pays. Of course, when agents are known and economically active, they are obliged to compensate for environmental damage. In Mizica, this is exactly what I mentioned earlier, so that the National Institute for Public Health, through a study on child health, proved that Mzzica Mine was the one causing environmental damage, but when this was proven, the mine was in bankruptcy and therefore the state took over the cost of recovery. It is certainly necessary to determine first what the environment is. After interviews that I myself had with representatives of the National Institute, certain health problems that would have deviated, which would have been higher than in Slovenia as a whole, there is no and therefore the problem is what the state pays. As proposed in this law, however, all costs would be borne by the State, while, under the Environmental Protection Act, I have said, the originator pays. If I turn back now to this PM10 particle load, the sources for these loads are different. Among other things, there is a considerable source of fire and that is why the country then – that is to say, we are all – is why the state co-finances the replacement of combustion plants and, of course, we want this reduction to be implemented with the burden of the environment on PM10 particles. It is true that pollution, fortunately or not, but fortunately the weather conditions themselves play out, and this year they are quite different from last year’s. Just as an example, I wanted to say that the existing law is a sufficient basis for [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister. Nice greetings to everyone else. We in Levica estimate that family policy in the country is used mainly to subsidise people with intermediate or even high incomes. Unfortunately, the result is that the socialist leaves behind the very ones most at risk who would need it the most. A concrete example of this is the policy for unemployed parents; on the one hand, this year the children's allowance will also be paid to the richest families, and the four-member family, in which each of the parents receives more than €2,000 net salary, is now entitled to the new child allowance, thus giving families with absolutely sufficient income to receive about €50 of state subsidies. On the other hand, we have unemployed parents with whom you are still saving. I'll give you specific cases. A woman, for example, who gives birth at a time when she is unemployed, is entitled to a maternity allowance if she has been employed for at least 12 months in the last three years. But this base is 55 per cent of the minimum wage, not the minimum wage that is currently valid, but the minimum wage that was valid in 2006. At that time, the minimum wage, if converted into euro, was only EUR 522. So the guaranteed compensation, which comes from this calculation, is 412 and I'm talking about the gross amount. That's my first question. On December 1st, you tabled an amendment to the Parental Protection Act and I am interested in: Why did you not propose that the maternity allowance should be linked to the applicable minimum wage rather than to the salary applicable in 2006? Another example, for example, unemployed parents who have never been employed are entitled to a parental allowance of EUR 252. So less than social assistance or 60 percent less than the minimum cost of living. This is the second part of the question: Why didn't you propose to raise that shameful amount? I suppose it's saving, but that's why I'm also interested: How much funding was allocated to the unemployed recipients of the parental allowance last year?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u162	Dear Vice-President, thank you for the floor, honourable Member, thank you for the question! Perhaps I would like to point out one important fact immediately at the outset; for family policy, I usually listen to criticism that it is not a social policy and that it must be directed towards all families. That's what you usually say when you're introducing a child supplement law, while now you're putting it in a different way; you're trying to show that we've been unjustifiably giving extras to families that deserve more, and you're trying to show that they're extremely rich. For family policy, we would like it more than it is today to become autonomous and universal. Historically, our family policy has always had a very important social connotation, so our key income, the children's allowance, is extremely progressive, i.e. those parents who have the lowest income get about 120 euros per family member, for the child. While those who have more get 20 euros. That's what this progression is about, and that's what it is. Some models, for example, France has a universal family policy where each family, for example, receives EUR 50-70, regardless of the property situation. I really wouldn't want to. [[…]] Also in the resolution you will adopt next week in the National Assembly, there is essentially a policy of quality of life for all families and we would not want to assume that we will give some more in some way, because we will not give it to others. In a way, you wanted to point out in your question why we returned the child’s supplements to the seventh and eighth classes, while we did not take care of the unemployed parents. Maybe some data; in our case, parental protection has been arranged among the more generous within Europe, which is recognised by all of us, because we have more or less 365 days of leave, which is divided into three parts; we have maternity leave, we have parental leave and paternity leave. The total is about 365 days, since the father’s leave is now fully paid, 30 days. However, the fact is that this is an insurance right and the amount is mainly linked to the payment of contributions from work and is actually a 100 % compensation for those who are employed for maternity leave. Unfortunately, parental care is still temporarily reduced to 90 percent and paternity leave. For the category that you have highlighted, we have introduced the possibility that those who have been employed for at least 12 months for the last three years have the right to receive a remuneration of between 55 and 105 % of the minimum wage. You've only exposed 55%. However, it is true that at that time the date was based on the time it was determined, this value was determined by 31. 12. 2006, in line with the harmonisation of the household transfer coordination law, this right was introduced as such in 2002. On the other hand, parents who are not employed also have the possibility of a parental allowance which was increased by 20% in 2012; from 196,49 to 252,04 euros. This is not much, but it has to be said that they also receive child support and other transfers. Please don't just watch one transfer, but you have to compare the whole picture of the family. Our aim in particular was to withdraw the austerity measures adopted in the past in the area of family policy, adopt the Family Code after 41 years, and it is also important that the National Assembly will next week consider the Resolution on Family Policy 2018-2028 for the next decade – a friendly society for all families, which I will also say later, suggests certain family policy guidelines.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u164	Yes, I have asked for two more things, or for specific information, and I would now like to repeat it. How many in the last year, as data are available, are the beneficiaries of motherhood and how much for fatherly and parental compensation under the second paragraph of Article 41 of the Parental Protection Act? How much money has been spent on this? And the other thing I'm interested in is what I also pointed out in the introductions: How many beneficiaries and beneficiaries of parental allowance have been in the last year under Article 64 of the Parental Protection Act? How much has been spent on these supplements in this case? I'm just really interested in: Does the Ministry provide any measures to improve the situation of unemployed parents? Even if a single unemployed mother receives all the social assistance and supplements that are possible, her family will still very likely live in poverty; and if she does not have a home of her own, she will live in extreme poverty. In these cases, I believe that this social policy is insufficient or does not serve its key purpose. I'd like to ask for that information.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. The data is next. In 2017, a thousand 147 mothers were eligible for maternity leave, totalling around EUR 1.8 million. In 2017, 53 fathers benefited from their father's leave-free allowance, which amounted to EUR 9 000; in 2017, the parent's leave-free allowance benefited a thousand 643 mothers and 23 fathers, totalling EUR 4.7 million. In 2017, 3 000 76 mothers and 38 fathers were entitled to the parental allowance, totalling EUR 10.2 million. In this regard, measures should also be fully taken in the area of single-parent families; child allowances which are significantly higher in this respect. With regard to the resolution, however, it is envisaged that the aim is to increase the amount of the parental allowance at least to the basic amount of the minimum income. This is reflected in the resolution you will be considering. Increase the level of parental allowance for certain categories: students, students, students and active job seekers by an additional 30%. It is a matter of experimenting and that the desire will continue in this area mainly for those younger categories who decide without status to have children, to be provided with this parental supplement at a higher level. This is also reflected in the family policy resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u167	The word has magic. Mr Branislav Rajić, who will ask the question of a Member of Parliament to Mr Anton Persak, Minister of Culture. Mr. Rajic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! The Maribor Art Gallery has been linking exhibition, research and education programmes for 60 years and is one of the most pervasive institutions in this area. The first initiatives for the gallery following the example of the National Gallery in Ljubljana were presented by General Maister in 1920. He was aware that a key part of national identity was based on culture. 100 years later Maribor Art Gallery has a collection of more than 5 thousand 500 excellent works of art. An exceptional collection of national reputations is complemented by a research centre and a rich archive. The Maribor Art Gallery also implements an educational program that nobles more than 480 schools and other institutions from all Slovenia, particularly promoting and discovering the diversity of artistic creation. The Maribor Art Gallery was the first to establish a Video collection and collection of new media. Modern art is extremely extensive due to media diversity, the number of creators and field specificities. The Maribor Art Gallery tries to offer at least two quality exhibitions per year to its audience. But in the second largest city in Slovenia, I would have earned publicly and also expected more than just two exhibitions. For the health of the country, however, it is essential to promote different views on the perception of art. The Maribor Art Gallery has always been an important co-founder of Slovenian art reviews and has also prevented the neglect of Slovenian phenomena, such as robotic art. The Maribor Art Gallery has been resoundingly promoting Slovenian art on the Venice Biennial and hosting internationally important artists in its premises. So the Maribor Art Gallery helps visitors understand the world through art. However, it has proven to have exceeded local and regional frameworks by size and also by the results achieved, so its status should be of a national character. A nationally important cultural point along the national border would strengthen the geostrategic cultural charge. The Maribor Art Gallery is today in the worst situation in its entire history, partly due to inadequate status, also due to the ineffective operation of its founder – the Municipality of Maribor. Dear Minister, I refer to you as soon as possible the question of the possibility that the Maribor Art Gallery be granted the status of the institution of national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u169	Mr Anton Peršak, Minister for Culture, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u170	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you very much for the question. First of all, let me say that, in principle, the state grants the status of national museums to cultural operators, as a rule, to a single contractor, as well as to Slovenia, except in one field. The Republic of Slovenia has coordinated the operation of the National Gallery with the Decision on the establishment of the Public Institute; I am talking about modernity, which has been said since 1900. A modern gallery has been established as an institution of national importance and is co-financed more or less fully from the state budget. In accordance with its mission, it works in particular in the field of two substantive components – modern and modern art. As part of classical art, the National Gallery. In addition to state museums or museums of national importance, including these galleries, the country also grants the status of so-called mandated museums, which in principle have 7 tasks, including those carried out by the Maribor Art Gallery. The co-financing of the public service in the mandated museums ensures the decentralisation of the public service; together with the financing of state museums as well as coverage for the implementation of all segments of the public service throughout Slovenia. According to her mission, the specificity of the Maribor Art Gallery is defined in a decree establishing this public institution, which plays a role in the regional museum of contemporary art and is responsible for the implementation of the public service's professional duties in the field of cultural heritage for North-Eastern Slovenia. In accordance with Article 95 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the Maribor Art Gallery has obtained this power to carry out the public service and to carry out it. This year, the Ministry of Culture dedicated EUR 548 thousand to Maribor Art Gallery – mostly for labour costs, operating costs, material costs and purchases of EUR 52 000. With this, the Ministry allows five exhibitions and purchases about 140 works of art by Marjana Remca and Idea Brišnik Remec. Let me add that the Ministry of Culture provides more than 71% of all funds for salaries, material costs, purchases and investments of the Maribor Art Gallery; while the local community in whose area the gallery operates provides 12% of the funds. Other revenue generated by the gallery by the implementation of the public service is around 10 % and slightly less than 1 % of market activity. According to what is said and according to such a policy as regards national institutions or so-called nationals, and according to the status of the Maribor Art Gallery, it is probably difficult to expect any change because this would be a precedent and a question would also be asked about other regional galleries and museums.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u171	Mag. Branislav Rajić, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The Maribor Art Gallery has demonstrated by its operation that it can achieve an extremely large amount with minimal support. In Ljubljana, the National Gallery and Modern Gallery, the Museum of Architecture, the International Graphic Art Centre, the Museum and Gallery of Ljubljana, as well as some funded by the Ministry of Culture are available to the public. These professionally cover contemporary art in a city of 280 thousand inhabitants. The Maribor Art Gallery represents the same area in Maribor with 100,000 inhabitants. Now add up the annual budgets of only five listed institutions in Ljubljana and compare them with the budget of the Maribor Art Gallery. Such a difference is entirely inconsistent with ensuring equal access to the cultural goods to which the State has committed itself. You also outlined the decentralisation of culture in the draft National Programme for Culture. Answers that there is no means to trigger a reptiles of similar requirements from other institutions and that only one institution has the right to national importance will not fail. The Minister of Culture must have a greater sense of the cultural desire of the nation and of the sense of a person who is not just a reproductive or consumer machine. It must have a sense and prudence to judge when it is time for an institution that has long achieved national importance to be able to recognise this status; especially when it comes to the fact that recognition of the status of national importance does not require an urgent change in the current funding cut. The Mariborians, the Styrians, and some of you expect a secular attitude and an appropriate gesture. You have this opportunity to be responsible for the explanations of your advisors and to carry out your mission and strike your own fist at the ministerial table while it is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u173	Minister Anton Peršak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u174	The question and the manner in which you justified it requires some change in a fundamental policy. This is not even a matter of current cultural policy, but it is simply a question of whether we will, in principle, grant the status of nationals who have a certain set of specific tasks to cover the entire nation, as you suggest, it is scattered that as a national we will define one institution in Ljubljana, one in Cyprus, one in Maribor, one somewhere else. Or we will insist on the concept that most European countries know that they have the status of national institutions one at a time; that is, it does not talk about the scope of activities, the extent of funding and, if I may say so, the importance of individual segments covered by some of these institutions. We also know that individual authorized contractors, museums have special individual collections of national importance, such as Turks in the Ptuj Museum or, say, the Maistrov Library in the Maribor Library. But one thing is that the state defines a bearing institution for the one that is to be the summit in the national sense and covers the entire space, not only the Republic of Slovenia, but the common Slovenian cultural space; and the other is those operators, as it were said, who are somehow further in charge of certain areas and have the status of mandated museums. If the state decides to change this concept, then it is likely that in all areas it will have to decide in the same way as in the past a precedent has been made in one area. I can answer this moment; it is not possible to do this in just one area, then it is necessary in all areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u175	Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A nice welcome to both the ministers! Dear Minister of Health, Mary Milojko Kolar Celarc, I ask about the provision of helicopter emergency medical care. With 1. 1. On the basis of the transitional provision laid down in Article 16 of the Regulations on airworthiness, air operations, aircrew and certain rules on the flight of police and customs aircraft, the validity of the permit to carry out air operations to the Aviation Police Unit has expired. It follows that the activities of helicopter emergency medical assistance and secondary transport cannot be carried out by State police aircraft. It is clear that the Government has taken an active approach to this and has also foreseen the adoption of a decision that would allow for a legal basis; inter-sectoral coordination and the adaptation of other rules are necessary in order to implement this decision. Since we are at the beginning of the year, I ask the Ministry of Health, which is the bearer of this story: What did it do in the direction of providing helicopter emergency medical care, in connection with all the documents to be accepted? This is also supported by the fact that, according to information that has clearly been in the public for a long time, the implementation of this helicopter emergency medical assistance with at least two helicopters of the police is only conditionally allowed or acceptable. None of these two older helicopters comply with the European directives imposing guidelines on this. The third helicopter, which was last purchased, does not exactly meet the conditions for the provision of helicopter emergency medical care because it is too small by profile. An even bigger problem will arise at the end of 2018 when one of these older helicopters needs to be replaced in general and the other in early 2019. Much has been said and it was also in the government's programme to purchase two new helicopters, which will also be deliberately identified for emergency medical care. In view of the alternative proposal and the concept, it was also aimed at hiring two vessels for a period of time that would meet all the conditions required by European regulation in this area. That is why I am also interested in what is done in this area, for it is from 1. 1. The existing licences have expired for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u177	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, Members! Thank you for the question, Mr Daniel Krivec. Indeed, what you are saying in the question is that the Ministry of Health has been actively involved in regulating the area of helicopter emergency medical care and, of course, is still working with other competent ministries and bodies. Here I am primarily referring to the Ministry of Interior and the police, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Defence or Civil Protection. You are also probably aware that on 7 December last year the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a Decision on the establishment of the implementation of helicopter emergency medical care and secondary transport as state activities. These are inter-hospital transports and transport of infants in the incubator. It has also set out what European legislation allows helicopter emergency medical care to be defined as a state activity, which is also implemented after 1 January 2018 on the basis of national regulations with helicopters of the police and the Slovenian army. The decision on the manner in which HNMP and helicopter inter-hospital transport are carried out shall be the responsibility of each Member State of the European Union. For the current European legislation allows HNMP to continue to operate with national aircraft if this activity is defined as State activity and if state aircraft achieve the required standard and the activity is financed from the State budget. Since the Regulations on airworthiness, air operations, air personnel and certain rules on the flight of police and customs aircraft contained transitional provisions which were linked to 31. 12. 2017, the Ministry of Infrastructure amended this Regulation, supplemented it on 19 December last year and entered into force on 1 January 2018. Until the start of the use of dedicated helicopters, the Slovenian military and police will continue to carry out the activities of HNMP and inter-hospital transport on the basis of the aforementioned decision of the Government. In addition, the work of the military is also in accordance with the Regulations on Registration, Labelling, Airworthiness and Documents and Books of Military Aircraft. In addition, the government adopted an additional decision at the December meeting and also appointed an inter-resort working group, which will prepare a proposal for a long-term arrangement of helicopter emergency medical care and secondary transport, as we are aware that this long-term arrangement needs to be arranged, including in part for the reasons given by you, with regard to certain flight hours of certain helicopters. On the basis of this analysis, as the working group is already working, I must say that in the meantime there have already been some alternatives related to the Norwegian financial mechanism which could allow purchase or lease; however, unfortunately this option or combination has not come to fruition. Therefore, this working group will also, by the end of March, prepare a proposal for a long-term solution, how to ensure in advance the activities of HNMP and secondary transport in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u179	Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to request an explanation for the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u180	Thank you, Minister, for this set of answers. I want to know: Has the government adopted a decree which constitutes the legal basis for this year's implementation of the HNMP? While you were talking about some coordination, you didn't answer me if this decision was adopted. Since the HNMP pilot project in Maribor has somehow been completed, how do you assess this part and with what legal document does it extend? Is this base appropriate in terms of the technical requirements that all these centres are supposed to meet? On the other hand, you have somehow admitted to trying to circumvent European directives with some internal acts within the country, which are very clear. You also know that no vessel in the Republic of Slovenia – neither military nor police – corresponds to European directives in this area.You have also not solved the problems that occur in that they are still vessels in the role of police or military, which have some priority in the summers. How will you resolve the problem further when there is a simultaneous need for police purposes and for some emergency transport; what in these cases? This has already happened in practice, and some ambulance or rapid and urgent medical assistance had to wait, since the police helicopter is, according to the rules, primarily dedicated to the needs of the police, the same applies to a military helicopter. These half-measures and the adoption of some rules within the country do not solve the key problem. And an even bigger problem will arise when we get a flight ban on all these vessels. How are you going to handle this?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u181	Minister Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u182	Thank you, too, for the supplementary question. Let me once again say that all European rules allow two possibilities for the implementation of helicopter emergency medical care; or as regulated by Slovenia and regulated by the Government since 2006 that it is a state activity and carried out by state aircraft. For these purposes, the Government has also adopted these conclusions, as well as the Rules on the Implementation of Helicopter Emergency Medical Assistance and the Airworthiness Regulation, which entered into force on 1 January 2018. The European rules do not stipulate that it is necessary for helicopter emergency assistance to be carried out as a commercial activity. This is, of course, one option, although some other countries also have this defined as state activity. However, I have said that a long-term solution will be prepared by this working group, which will also draw up a proposal in which to make a choice – whether to hire dedicated helicopters for the implementation of this aid, or whether it will be a possibility of redemption, or even a purchase in order to adequately resolve and ensure the implementation of the HNMP in the long term. So it's legal, it's left to the state. As I have already mentioned, due to a certain duration or number of hours of flight of certain helicopters, it will be necessary to approach an additional or different solution in the long term.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u183	Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u184	Thanks again for saying that. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Minister's response be discussed in this National Assembly. You didn't answer me if the decision was taken. You were talking about the rules. The regulation is a matter of aviation work; the decree covers all institutions involved in this story, not just health. You know that this matter does not just drink water and that we can only wait to receive concrete warnings from the European Union on this. You haven't answered me either what happens when the tasks are duplicated, when the vessels have to fly for the needs of the police. Who in this case is carrying out helicopter emergency medical care? We know there's a hole in this case. You said it was for protection, rescue. This is another problem that other countries are solving in a different way, but response times and needs are defined differently in European regulation than in the case of rapid and emergency medical assistance, which has a different status. In these cases, aircraft may also be state-owned, but they must be separate from institutions such as the police and the military, which have a different rules on airworthiness and flight, as well as all other criteria. Nor is there a clear dilemma regarding duality. There are always two pilots flying in the military and the police, which means additional burdens of resources. The European Union as a whole is flying for an emergency helicopter, a more modern helicopter in need of one pilot. These are all things that we have known for a long time that you have seen in certain documents; but you have not been able to resolve them within this government and you will not succeed until the end of this government. And the problem will arise when, as I said, at least one of the police helicopters, and probably another military, non-flooding, due to the necessary major repairs. At that time, there will be a major problem that no study you are preparing will simply solve.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u185	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13 February, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be posed by the mag. Mr Branko Grims, Minister of the Interior, Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u186	Good-bye to all of you! The Balkan route is reviving and the flow of illegal migrants to Slovenia from the south is increasing again. A special security problem is the new southern road that opened through Serbia to Velika Kladusa and then along the shortest possible route across Croatia and across the river Kolpa to Belo Krajino. There are partially fences, as they are called in political Latvian – temporary obstacles; where there is no fence, we are now experiencing an interesting phenomenon because the fence has proved to be extremely effective. Practically barely a percentage of illegal migrants go over the fence, more than 95% going across the border where there is no fence. The people who have actively opposed this fence before are now calling on the National Assembly to do something to set up an additional fence to further ensure the safety of people in this way. The fact is that many of the pressure on the minister and the government to remove the fence has been put on the table; and here we have to commend that the fence has been preserved. Today we see how immeasurably irresponsible it would be to remove this fence from the security side; and this is the criticism of all those who have proposed it – by the government SD, by Bratuškova and Cerar, by the newly composed Murgel hero and by the savior of Slovenia, Marjan Šarc, and by the United Left, which has this as a daily theme. They would remove the fence; they forget that the first and fundamental task of everyone in human security policy is to ensure human security. Because the flow has grown stronger and because this security questionable path is now being followed by those who are retreating from the defeat of ISIS, i.e. warriors, and because it also represents this because of the Wahhabi settlements along the road, where they are being provided with a variety of other, additional problems, it is therefore necessary to further protect our southern border. The question is: What measures does the government foresee here? Other additional problems, perhaps even larger in the short term, will be the elections in Italy. In a good month, Italy, as all polls show, will receive a right-wing government that predicts that in just a few weeks it will push out more than 600,000 illegal migrants and then radically change migration policy. Our border against Italy is the only one open. France has partially closed down, Switzerland completely, Austria has it under control. Additional measures will also be required there. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u187	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u188	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Your Honor, Mr Grimes. Your question is extremely current because migration pressure is not perceived, as you see for yourself; and I think that this will be one of the main topics that we will have to discuss very much in the coming period. Following the closure of the Western Balkan route, we are expected to see an increase in classical illegal migration. The trend towards increasing the number of illegal border crossings shows that an increase of 80 % of illegal crossings was recorded in 2017, which is certainly worrying. The modes are becoming more sophisticated as well. Slovenian police are constantly monitoring developments at the Slovenian-Croatian border on the basis of all the information they obtain from various sources, and are also adapting their operational and tactical measures in view of changes in the route of illegal migration. Reinforced controls shall be carried out at the green border as well as at border crossings with compensatory measures within the interior. And here, in fact, as you can see for yourself, we are seeing an increase in the illegal crossings of the state border in the area of Novo mesto Police Administration or in the White landscape. The following measures have been implemented to combat illegal migration: additional personnel assistance has been provided to the Novo Mesto Police Administration, additional helicopter control of the state border has also been determined in the area of the White Region, due to spatial difficulties in the treatment of migrants, two additional containers for the treatment of persons at the Črnomelj Police Station are under way and additional temporary technical barriers are being explored. And as I have already said today in the previous question of the Member States, and as you can see for yourself, these technical obstacles serve their purpose, because even enforcers or foreigners avoid those points where these obstacles are placed, which actually makes it easier for the police to manage the migration picture. We continue to pay particular attention to the setting and maintenance of technical barriers, despite the opposition of some local communities. And here we estimate that areas such as the White Landscape are precisely because of this more vulnerable and therefore are hosting illegal crossings of the state border. The fact is, with these technical means, we are complementing the work of police officers who cannot fully physically cover the entire border at the green border. Effective protection of the external Schengen border in accordance with applicable European and national legislation remains the objective of the police and the government as a whole. Due to the changed operational or political map of the Schengen area – we know that Austria, Germany, Denmark, Sweden still exercise the reintroduction of border controls at the internal borders – is a consistent and effective control at our external border, especially the way to ensure the safety of the people of our country, because we know that the essence of the Schengen is in security. You also mentioned information about new routes opening on the Western Balkan route. This is true, it is also in the media, even in Croatian media, much is said about this – a new corridor for irregular migration through Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is worrisome that there are locations where these persons are kept and have some logistical support. This is a well-organised irregular migration, which is certainly in line with certain estimates the direct potential of irregular migration against Slovenia as well. Modus, as I said at the outset, is changing. We have experienced something like this in a recent period when the media have also reported that the Kolpa River is being conquered, and then with an immediate request for international protection. This is some mode that is expected in the future. There is no doubt that we are seeing this increase in illegal migration; much will also depend on the interest of the Croatian security authorities, or on their activities in the field of irregular migration in general. The fact is that the external borders of the European Union should not be diversified because effective protection of these borders is an essential prerequisite for the smooth functioning of Schengen. We know, however, that Slovenia does not protect the external borders of the European Union, but is monitoring the situation at all its borders, including at the border with Italy, where plans to step up measures are also being prepared for cases of an increase in the number of illegal border crossings. Finally, the Director-General of Police also met with the Director-General of the Italian Police, i.e. the Director of Public Security. They agreed to make direct communication and also agree on further action, which is certainly important. There, however, the structure of people is different from that of the Western Balkan route.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u189	Mag. Branko Grims you have the word to request a supplement to the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u190	There are still certain international circumstances that can make this much worse. On the one hand, Turkey has now attacked Kurds in Syria, which is extremely bad for further developments. On the other hand, elections in Turkey are approaching. Again, someone may be tempted to use illegal migrants to blackmail the European Union. Even if this does not happen, these prisoners will obviously rise more and already after Croatian data to the Great Claudius comes for more than 20 people a day. A few weeks ago, it was just a few individuals a week. It is said that the currents are strengthening very quickly and that I can only repeat how irresponsible it was of all those who opposed the fence or demanded its immediate removal; if this was the government SD, if it was through Bratuškova and Cerar, the new quasi-resort of Slovenia, Marjan Sarec, who unfortunately also has many on the right; or if this is the United Left, which has both irresponsible policies and its identifying mark. The deaf sum of the bristles is an old Slovenian proverb. And nothing so clearly shows who is who in politics is, rather than the attitude towards threatening Islamisation, radical Islamisation and the migration crisis. The question is therefore raised: Is it easier to negotiate with people to put up additional technical barriers? Unfortunately, the alternative is seen in Bulgaria, where there was also a shooting at the border. The fence is just to act preventively, not to take any more serious measures. Is this to a greater extent planned against Italy, where very poor developments from the point of view of Slovenia can occur in a short time, and everything will have to be done to ensure that Slovenia does not become an asylum for illegals?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u191	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Vice President. As it is said, the police will adapt the methods or tactics of action according to the information found, taking into account the risk analysis and the information obtained by foreign security authorities. The expansion plans are ready. We also discussed this on committees last year. But the fact is that the police will follow the basic starting points in the future, which is that illegal border crossings need to be detected as close as possible to the entry point and the possibility of returning to the country from which they enter. The challenge will also be to prosecute perpetrators and break down organised criminal groups, where police have already been effective in the past. Great efforts are also being made to return foreigners to their countries of origin, as this effectively reduces the possibility of a return to illegal travel in the region, which is a major problem. It also follows from your implementation that the matter is somehow in excess of Slovenia or has one international connotation, which is extremely important because no country will solve it alone. I believe that there is no answer at European Union level to the question of how to deal with the mass movements of migrants across the territories of several safe countries. This is actually a problem that the European Union has not yet answered. Since international protection cannot be encouraged only by the fact that the security authorities at the external Schengen border, which is their duty, stop the migration flows from another safe Member State of the European Union, as such a system leads to a long-term breakdown of international refugee law. If a person applies for international protection only in Slovenia and travels 4.5 safe countries before that, then a number of people wonder whether this person in all those countries on the Western Balkan route has not been persecuted before under the Geneva Convention, which certainly does not affect the quality of the international legal order for the protection of refugees, which must certainly be. These are challenges for the future. The European Union will also have to work on how to prevent the abuse of asylum systems. However, I do not think we can agree to the system in any way to resolve the entire migratory pressure on the European Union in Slovenia, even though we are surrounded by the very safe Member States of the European Union and are not actually on the external border. As far as Italy is concerned, of course we are monitoring the situation and will also take appropriate action if necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u193	Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u194	With full responsibility, I say that no matter is as crucial in the long term for the issue of the existence of the European Union, Europe, its civilisations as a whole and of course the national countries with Slovenia at the helm, such as the issue of radical Islamisation of Europe and the flow of migrants in the field of radical Islam. Here we are missing, I absolutely agree with the Minister, a single and effective European policy that would be able to show the door to radical Islam. As a result, this threat remains constant, it will be present in the coming years, and certainly things will only expand further and strengthen more during the arrival of new and new people and also due to changed international circumstances. All of this suggests that we also discuss this in Parliament to discuss security issues, issues of protection of Slovenia. In doing so, we must not blind ourselves to rely on anyone else. This situation with regard to the European Union is a fact that must only be a basis for us to know that equipment can only be self-sufficient, that we must rely on ourselves alone and strengthen everything that Slovenia provides for security. In the international space, however, to look for allies where they could effectively put themselves on the edge – especially the Visegrad Group, including our neighbours – and to take into account the changed international circumstances. Things are quite different today than they were a few years ago. If then everything that was to be done in accordance with international law was to be done, then none of what had happened would have happened; and we would probably be having a very different conversation here today. But, unfortunately, no one is immune before the violation of this law, nor is Slovenia. Although the procedure was fully properly initiated by the Ministry of Transfer of Mr Ahmad Shamieh to Croatia, it is still on its way to Slovenia. So things aren't what they're supposed to be. The issue of respect for the law also; consistent respect for the law in all its elements, because only this establishes the rule of law as a whole, is what should be, with all due responsibility, the subject and the basis of the debate in this national assembly. It is a question of preserving civilisation; it is a question of preserving human rights and freedoms; it is a question of the fundamental values on which the State of Slovenia is established, including the right to security. It is a question of prosperity, of our development and of our future. Therefore, it is fitting that we discuss this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u195	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 13 February 2018, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the minister of finance mags a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u196	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the prices of oil derivatives have a significant impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy; at the same time, the prices of oil derivatives also have a significant impact on the standard of living of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Over the last period, we have witnessed a constant increase in prices of oil derivatives in the Republic of Slovenia. The price of oil on global markets probably also contributes to this, and on the other hand this is a major impact of the duties we have under the Regulation on the pricing of oil derivatives. Dear Minister, if we look at today's prices – the price of 95-octane gasoline in Slovenia is 1.31 euros, in Austria 1.10 euros; the price of oil in Slovenia is 1.25 euros, the price of the cheapest oil, which is on the website, is 1.03 euros. This means that there is a difference of about 20 cents per litre between petrol and oil. A thousand litres of heating oil in Slovenia – about 980 euros, in Austria 800 euros, which means a thousand litres of heating oil 180 euros. I want to know: How much would the retail price in euro be for unleaded petrol, 95-octane; diesel fuel and fuel oil today if the conditions for the formation of the retail price of the oil derivatives that were valid on day 30 were applicable. 9. 2008?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u197	Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor and thank you very much for the question. First of all, I must say that this comparison is very hypothetical because, as you can see, the rise in retail prices of oil derivatives is influenced by the prices of oil derivatives on the markets, and also by the amount of individual public taxes paid on oil derivatives. Public taxes on oil derivatives are not only fiscal benefits or fiscal purposes but are also pursued by other purposes. As a result, the data I will provide below will only be hypothetical. It should be borne in mind that in 2008 only excise duty and value added tax, both of which are primarily fiscally significant, were charged to unleaded petrol and diesel. In the years since 2010, a number of other benefits have been introduced on oil derivatives, which are generally earmarked resources for specific purposes. A contribution to energy efficiency was introduced in 2010 and in mid-2012 a CO2-tax was introduced on fuel fuels or on petroleum derivatives and in 2014 a contribution to support electricity production or the so-called contribution of EEE. Taking into account that all these duties and excise duties, as in force in 2008, should be charged to unleaded petrol, the retail price should be 1.2 euros. If only excise duty were to be charged, the price of unleaded petrol would be 1,047 euros. In the case of diesel, the same is true; if all duties and excise duties as in force in 2008, the price of diesel would be EUR 1, 23 cents and 4 tenths of a cent; if only excise duty and VAT were to be charged – EUR 1,01, but in such a case duties would be charged to a extent lower than the minimum excise duty prescribed under European legislation. European legislation has also changed the rules of taxation of oil derivatives during this period. The minimum excise duty on diesel fuel has risen. The excise duty under these rules must not be less than 0.33 euros per litre, or 330 euros per thousand litres of fuel. There is still an important difference in excise policy between 2008 and today, namely that segment of excise policy which has the most impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. This is the mechanism of the so-called commercial diesel. This mechanism allows companies using diesel fuel for commercial purposes to obtain a refunded excise duty of up to a minimum excise duty of €330 per thousand litres and also receive value added tax in the VAT system. If we compare the commercial diesel scheme today with the price paid in 2008 when we did not know these schemes, this means that in 2008 94.66 cents were paid for the commercial purpose of the diesel litre; today 93.39 cents per litre of diesel is paid in the commercial diesel scheme. Once again, I stress that this is a hypothetical calculation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u199	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u200	Dear Minister, I thank you for this answer, whether the answer is hypothetical or not. The fact is that the price of a litre of petrol or the price of a litre of oil in the event that duties would apply, as was the case at the end of the Janša government's mandate, would be about 20 cents cheaper per litre. There's no way out of this. The fact is that your government has doubled its excise duty to increase contributions to support energy production, to increase CO2 charges and to increase the energy savings allowance. I am convinced that this government or the next government, which will be given a mandate, should change excise policy, because, at least for me personally, it is unacceptable that the price of a litre of oil or a litre of petrol in Austria is about 20 cents cheaper than in Slovenia; and even more worrying that the price of a thousand litres of heating oil in Celovac, in Beljak, is cheaper for 180 euros than in Ljubljana, Kranj, Škofja Loki, Murski Sobota. Dear Minister, I am convinced that if the government decided to take on more competitive prices, it would be possible to reduce the prices of petrol, oil and fuel oil by appropriate regulation of the duties on the selling price of oil derivatives overnight.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u201	Minister Vraničnik Erman, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u202	Thank you very much again for your word. I would first touch the burning oil, which I did not address in the first part of my reply for a reason. The price of the fuel oil has been freely formed for some time and therefore data on the prices of the fuel oil and comparison are no longer available. I would like to recall, however, that in 2009, this country adopted a new or amended policy of relation to individual fires used for heating, and that by establishing support schemes for the use of renewable energy, with support schemes for efficient use of energy, and also by establishing excise policies in the field of heating oil, it wanted to encourage individuals, households to move from heating to other sources that are more environmentally friendly. As I mentioned earlier, not only with excise policies, but with other burdens, which we are referring to fuels of petroleum origin or fossil origin, we are pursuing other fiscal objectives – environmental objectives, transport policy objectives and so on. Therefore, it cannot be simply argued that all these objectives could also be achieved by lower burdens or by the abolition of individual duties on propulsion fuels, as has been the case in the Member State's question. Notwithstanding all of this, I can agree that, as with any other policy, analyses should also be carried out in respect of excise policy and that the existing excise policy should be checked at the same time as it is appropriate. This type of analysis is also being carried out at the Ministry in cooperation with the OECD. Any such change must be considered and well planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u203	Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, who is excusedly absent today. Mr. Moon, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u204	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! I will ask the Minister about the employment of young graduates and pedagogical graduates in our educational system. In recent years, there have been growing problems with the acquisition of traineeships, access to professional examinations and, as a result, the acquisition of a profession and employment. Previously, the volunteer traineeship, which had its own problems, was unpaid, poorly paid, and there was no employment guarantee. However, since the closure of the traineeships, we have come to the practice of distributing European funds, which is irregular, non-herent and a wide range of students are unable to acquire a profession after completion of the study. If we look at the latest call for a first job in education and education in 2018, we see that €1.9 million has been earmarked for it; but of this only a good one-fifth of the funds for the eastern region remain to the west. In addition, there are a number of restrictions in the invitation to tender which present a problem for a large part of the population. The first is that the invitation to tender is intended only for those up to the age of 29, which means that the elderly can no longer obtain neither traineeship nor vocational examination nor employment. The invitation to tender is then addressed only to the institutions, although the number of applicants has been very low in recent years. It excludes all assistants from the tutor, at the same time stipulates that the institution of the beginner must employ at least by the end of May 2019 and is responsible for part-time employment, and it does not necessarily involve a professional job in education and education. In doing so, of course, it is important to note the chastity and all the related problems that occur here. My question for the Minister is: How will she face this problem and ensure to young educators and educators that they can actually get a traineeship, a professional examination and a job after school? Is he thinking about starting to allocate the resources of an integrated budget for this; not just European funds? What does he intend to do for the active employment of those who already have a certain experience and have a professional examination in order to be able to obtain permanent employment? When can we expect a systemic solution with a long-term strategy in this area? I'd like to request an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u205	Get up. Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc a question. Mrs. Mursich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The waiting days are unacceptably long, we all know that, fresh data proves a new record. On 1 February 2018, according to the National Institute for Public Health, there were 248,000 907 people waiting for one of 61 health services, 59.7% more than on 1 January 2014. Of these, 63 thousand 124 persons over the permissible waiting period or 25,4 % of all waiting periods, which is 327,4 % more than on 1 January 2014. The measure taken by the government in the past week to punish doctors for unjustifiable referral to a specialist will not solve this. Moreover, such a measure is unacceptable to me and is even harmful to patients or patients. While this measure can partly reduce waiting periods, what will happen to those patients who will not receive timely care?Oh, my God! With this they will go to the private sector, of course for an appropriate payment, but that is not my topic today. The subject of my question is the area of dental care, which we discussed in 2015. Oral disorders are one of the main public health problems, and from year to year these problems are increasing. There are no preventive programs either, so it is all the more important if the patient is found to have dental problems to receive fast and effective care. If these oral cavitys are adequately repaired, other chronic diseases may also occur, causing additional costs not only in the field of dental care but also in other areas. The findings also show and demonstrate that this dental activity is poorly regulated, especially in Styria, where more and more patients face the fact that they are forced by unbearable pain and also waiting to seek help from private dentists. These reviews and treatments go beyond the budgets of individuals and many are in a hopeless situation. It is a matter of concern that at Dr. Adolf Drolc’s Health Center, we find only one dentist for dental diseases and endodontics, but that is not all. The waiting periods are 350 days, with a regular waiting period of up to 530 days, and a notice has been added that they no longer accept the travel tickets as from 1 February 2018. Minister, I want to know: In what way and when will waiting periods be reduced in specialized dental care? What did the new Law on Patient Rights bring?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u207	Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member Bojana Muršič. Dear Members and Members! With regard to the issues that you have raised in the end with regard to waiting periods and the situation in specialist dental care, it should be said that as soon as possible, the Ministry, after the adoption of the amendment of the Medical Services Act, and when the invitation was granted, this was the end of last year, has further issued 9 specialisations in the field of dental medicine. As you know, between 2011 and the end of 2017 this invitation to tender was in the hands of the Medical Chamber, which in seven years awarded all 46 specializations in the field of dental medicine. As a result, this invitation to tender, which was issued before the end of the year, has additional nine specialisations for this area. In doing so, eight specialisations were set for specific, individual health operators, which is now different; that is, 8 were for specific institutions and only 1 specialisation for the whole country. The Ptuj Health House was given 2 specializations, both in jaw and dental orthopaedics and oral surgery, and specialization in oral surgery was provided for the Medical House of Dr. Adolf Drolc in Maribor. By establishing these specialisations for the individual operator, we know that according to the law, he is now obliged to employ a specialist within one month of the completion of his specialisation at least for a one-time period of specialization for the purposes of which he performed his specialisation. The amendment of the law thus ensured that, in the event of a specialisation for a specific operator being awarded, that part of the specialist as a doctor in this public health institution should be performed there or served somehow. Since this issue is somehow the most problematic in Maribor, the health care homes of Ptuj and Adolf Drolc in Maribor will be strengthened in this area, which will help shorten waiting periods by hiring these two specialists, as the reason for such waiting periods in this area is mainly the lack of these specialists. Due to the departure of some, let me say that in May 2015 the Maribor Medical House left 2 oral surgeons who then immediately applied for concession; in May another resigned and immediately applied for concession. It is clear, however, that in case of departure, a specialist cannot make up for this manoeuvring within two or three months because the specialisation only lasts for a certain period of time. However, if we look at data on service delivery at the level of specialist dental treatment at the level of Slovenia in 2017, we can find that we have not achieved 100% realisation in all specialist dental activities for adults. Not to mention, in periodontology, endodontics were 97.5%, in oral and maximal surgery is even 94.5%. However, a more detailed review by the operators shows that this realization was even lower, but mainly due to the human resources shortage. For example, at the Medical House of Dr Adolf Drolc in Maribor was 71%, at the Ptuj 88 Health House; mainly due to the departure of the previously mentioned specialists. The answer to the question of how we have dealt with this problematic area; in particular with the number of specialisations for precisely defined public institutions in order to make up for this human resources manna, which is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mag. Bojana Muršič, you have the floor to request an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Thanks for the information. You wanted to say a lot more, and you'll have time to finish your thought. Nevertheless, I note that you have said that a specialty of oral surgery has been announced for the Medical House of Dr Adolf Drolc in Maribor, which will not solve the current problem. Of course, the situation is not from today, I agree with you that you said that specialisations were not being called as they should have been, so the Medical Services Act has also been amended, which is now transferring this competence to the Ministry. I sincerely hope that in the short term these things will change, because once again, it is unacceptable to wait, now I will expose another, even more extreme case, in the period of periodontology where the waiting period with a travel pass is fast 360 days, with a travel order of 720 days, and you will not be able to arrive in those terms. It's the worst thing ever. And even if you decide to go to a private specialist, these services are insanely expensive. That's one thing. And there are simply no specialists in this area. In Maribor, Dr. Adolf Drolc, what you stated is that dentists leave the institution and on the other hand we have maternity leave. However, the Institute needs to be aware that there is a need to provide adequate personnel in the back, and what has been happening lately at Dr. Adolf Drolc's Health Centre, especially in specialist dental care, is briefly unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u211	Minister, you have the floor to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u212	Thank you. I'm going to complement the one where time got ahead of me and what you've just said. Indeed, in the past a number of concessions have been granted mainly in the field of dental care regardless of the needs of the public network, and, of course, there have been no calls for specialisations for institutions in this area. Now it's, I'll say, it's piled up and, of course, the consequences are here. That is why we will now take a very long look at and call on the public institutions they need and miss in the spring call. With regard to waiting periods, I would like to say mainly in dental care that for the primary level of the survey he collected data from the Institute of Health Insurance. This monitoring and keeping of waiting lists in dental care is highly irregular, and for NATURE the data was collected only for oral surgery. This has now been corrected by the application of the new Law on Patient Rights, which has been in force since 21 January. I can tell you that many of these things have not yet been regulated, and the health inspectorate is already walking, visiting these institutions, especially in this dental work, reminds them that they have been prescribed under the new law, what and how to run these waiting lists, otherwise they will have to approach sanctioning on the next visit. So far, let's say in e-ordering at the time we went to check when we were preparing this answer to your question about Ptuj and Drolc's health home, so let's say these two aren't reporting into the e-Procurement system. Of course, they were warned, so it will probably take two, three months for everyone to report to the e-procurement system and to clear the lists.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u213	Mrs Vesna Vervega will ask the question of the two ministers, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, who is rightly a percentage, and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Diane Jedhan. Mrs. Vervega, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Given the absence of Minister Koprivnik, I would like to be asked to have an answer to a part of the question which is substantively linked to the Ministry of Public Administration at the next meeting of the National Assembly. My question concerns the establishment of a broadband internet in the area of white foxes in Slovenia. Following an analysis of the market interest and an overview of the state of network connectivity, the Ministry of Public Administration published a list of white foxes to the household in November 2017. The list also includes households in white foxes in the area of the consortium of Halo municipalities, in the rare settlement segment, amounting to a thousand 920 households, for example in the Municipality of Žetale 262. On 26 January, the Official Journal published an invitation to tender worth 18.5 million for the construction of the so-called GOŠO 3 covering two sets, for all regions, except for the pomurska, Podravska and Koroška statistical region. The Podrav region includes all the congregations in Halo. My question is addressed to both ministers. I want to know: What are the key reasons for the call for tender for the three regions mentioned above within the Rural Development Programme? Why is this invitation to tender due in autumn 2018? As a result, these areas will receive internet connectivity later and may be placed in a subordinate position vis-à-vis other regions. The next question is: Is sufficient funding available to cover all white foxes in the three regions mentioned above? According to an agreement between the ministries, €7 million would be allocated from rural development funds for the construction of so-called PSOs. Is that enough money? I also want to know: What role is envisaged for the congregation or local community and their contribution? The selected operators of electronic communications, not the municipality or the local community, are entitled to public funding. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u215	Mag. Dean Jedhan, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u216	Thank you, Mr President, and also thank you, honourable Member, for the current question. My answer is next. Support for broadband is provided from two European funds, from the European Rural Development Fund, many call it the Agricultural Fund, and from the Fund responsible for regional development, many call it the Cohesion Fund. The broadband internet is the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and it also plans to develop broadband networks of the next generation by 2020, so it was crucial for our Ministry of Public Administration as a department of public administration to establish appropriate legal bases, to define the key conditions for the implementation of such investments, as the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food can then bring all conditions into line with them, so that people within Slovenia are in the same position. One change is coming from here, and this is that we need to adapt the Rural Development Programme within the Agricultural Fund to new conditions, and that is why this proposal is already ready, as is already the case in the preparation of the regulation, so that we can implement this measure. Here I would also like to inform you that – as you said – there has been a review of the market situation carried out by the Ministry of Public Administration, and on this basis an agreement has been reached between the two ministries that the three regions will be covered by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Pomurska, Podravska and Koroška statistical region and the other regions by the Cohesion Fund. In individual regions, the number of households in the white foxes of thousands of 47 is predicted in the pomurska region, in the Podravski 3 000 866 and in Koroša 966, a total of 5 000 869. The maximum permitted amount of public support is EUR 1000 200, and on this basis the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food within the Rural Development Programme actually has €7 million reserved 42 000 800 and will build a broadband network that will allow 100 megabits per second to be connected. Perhaps just another, honourable Member, the influence of the local community. For individual calls, of course, it should be borne in mind that the call is in line with local development strategies. This project has already been implemented by the Ministry within another law, and I fully believe that it will be carried out as well now. However, the shift compared to cohesion is only because in our case the rural development programme, which is adapted once a year and has to be approved by the European Union, needs to be adapted to the rural development programme. The care of individual recipients, the care of mayors and of the regions, of course, is always welcome, but in this case the legal basis is or is being created and money is also reserved and also the experience from the past that we have done so successfully exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u217	Mr Simon Zajc will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, who is, of course, justifiably absent from this issue. Mr. Zajc, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! I would also like to receive an answer at the next oral meeting. This is the next thing, to permit temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia for those who live in countries where Slovenia does not have its embassy. In countries where the Republic of Slovenia does not have its embassy, all the tasks carried out by our embassies are carried out by the embassies of other countries of the European Union. This is also true in this case: the person wishing to obtain a temporary residence permit shall submit an application to one of the embassies of one of the other countries of the European Union, and then supplement it there, in short, may do all things at this other embassy, except for two things. And now I want to know why that is and what we can do to change that. Indeed, it is not the area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is not the area of the Ministry of the Interior, but of the requirements they have, I think, administrative units. That's what this is all about. A person may apply for a temporary residence permit, but when it comes to giving a fingerprint, he must go to the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia to the nearest country where Slovenia has one. So, he sits on a plane, flies there, gives a fingerprint at our embassy, then returns, and when our bureaucracy breaks down, this person has to get back on a plane and bring himself back to this country where we have the embassy to take this permit personally. That is to say, in all other matters, we allow other embassies to arrange matters for us, except for these two things, no one else can collect fingerprints except us and no one else can deliver the mail to this person except our officials. I want to know why we're asking for this, so what's the logic behind it, what we want to avoid, why it's good, because we're asking these people for very non-life things, they have to sit down, they have to travel, given that then our officials don't give very long any information, when such a permit will be issued, or they can't plan this trip to buy the map in advance, and so on. My question is: On what basis is the act and the logic behind not allowing these persons to carry out the whole procedure in which of the embassies of any other European Union country, as is the case with the other things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u219	We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Mr. Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, chairman. It is generally known that the homes of older citizens face both a lack of staff and a lack of material resources. In this regard, on 16 October last year, I sent a question to the ministry and then the ministry replied that only €4.8 million of investment funds were reserved for the homes of older citizens. At the same time, employees are understaffed, and for those who are, the difficulty of work is getting worse. The average age of caregivers is rising, their health and nursing homes are also deteriorating, and for the elderly they are effectively transformed into nursing hospitals and when they are adequately overloaded, and for the surface they are underpaid for what they do. In addition, the situation of employees also deteriorates due to the unfair conduct of individual leaders at the home of older citizens. In particular, I have come into contact with one such practice in one of the Gorenje homes, where management allocates days off so that employees, specifically nurses, are free on holidays or working off days, that is, when they do not work, and since such a day is considered to be the use of free hours, so overtime, employees are not paid compensation for holidays and other part of the day off and the nurses are then double played. First of all, their overtime burns for days when they do not work, when they should be free, or when they do not pay their wages for holidays and other parts of their days, if they do so. In this way, of course, institutions reduce their costs, but on the account and on the back of employees who already have too low wages, given the complexity of the work at all. In this context, I would also like to conclude by recalling the agreement reached between the Health and Social Welfare Union of Slovenia and the Ministry of Field Affairs on 21 April 2009, where it was agreed that such practices would be cut off. On the basis of all that has been said, I ask the Minister: Do you know where and how widespread this type of practice of playing personnel or specifically nurses is? How do you feel about such practices? How will you intervene to prevent this? This may not be illegal, but it is certainly profoundly unfair.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u221	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u222	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor, honourable Member, thank you for the question. As you said at the end, let's look at what's in line with the law. From the point of view of the regulation of the general labour law, it is necessary to establish an obligation for the employer to establish an annual work schedule before the start of the calendar or business year and to inform the employers and trade unions of the second paragraph of Article 148 of the Labour Relations Act. As regards the subject, it should be noted that Article 166 of the U.S.R. provides workers with the right to be absent from work on the holidays of the Republic of Slovenia, which are defined as part of the day off and other parts of the day off by law. As a result, it should also be noted that Article 134(2) provides that the worker has the right to compensation for holidays and other holidays, and Article 156 of the U.S.R. provides for the right to weekly rest. The employer must prepare the schedule of work in advance as if there were no holidays and take into account the provision of weekly rest. Otherwise, it can also be provided on another day of the week, not only on a day that is otherwise fixed as a day of weekly rest, that is, on the day of the holiday. Then, if work is carried out on a holiday to a lesser extent, the employer shall determine how many employees must work on a holiday, and the rest who have been assigned to work on a holiday, and for this reason, therefore absence from work under Article 166 of the ZDR, shall not have to work, they shall be entitled to compensation. Those workers who are not already assigned to work on a holiday for the purpose of providing weekly rest are not entitled to compensation. With regard to the matter under consideration, note further the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in its judgment, stressed that an uneven working time could also be allocated to a particular method of distribution fixed by its nature and thus predictable, and that the general needs of work and the allocation of working time could not be mixed. In this case, the Court found that the employer’s job scratch, which has further adjusted before public holidays or off days, and for the sake of these workers alone has not allocated the employer’s duty, which is why it has not provided them with compensation for their salaries, is not illegal. In addition, the Court has pointed out that if the allocation of working time is systemically clear and the method of deployment is pre-identified, it is also possible to determine in advance the days on which the worker normally works. Unfortunately, the problem of a specific home from Gorenjska, which you did not name, is not known, and the public was informed of the case of the House of Older Citizens Novo Mesto, where unions and leadership at home reached an agreement. In any event, it is in the interest of directors to agree on a timetable with workers and trade unions to ensure optimum use, while also taking into account the needs of workers, because in the end the quality of the work is essential for the provision of quality services. As regards the response to this 12th point of the agreement, we would like to inform you that negotiations are under way between the government and the trade union party to conclude an annex to the collective agreement on health and social protection activities, in order to complement the collective agreement with a specific provision concerning the allocation of workers on holiday, which would ensure uniform practice in all institutions of the entire activity of health and social protection of Slovenia. With regard to the legal nature of the agreement you have mentioned, I would like to clarify that it is not a binding labour resource, since it is not a legal act of a general nature, but not a collective or individual level contract. However, let us stress that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Health and Social Welfare Union are agreed on the implementation and provision of certain legal definitions in the light of principles and favours, in particular with a view to the ongoing, effective and legal functioning of work processes in social welfare institutions. However, this is the responsibility of directors, and as a minister, I expect directors of public institutions to operate legally and operate within these legal frameworks in such a way that they have a proper relationship with employees and trade unions and, above all, provide the highest possible quality of services to their users and users.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u223	Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request an explanation of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u224	Thank you. I'd like a refill. What the Minister said, she's got it all. What's going on is essentially legal, which doesn't mean it's right. Once again, nurses have been played twice in such cases. When it's day off, and they're usually frayed, they've got overtime, and the robbers have paid for the day's work. This agreement, which was signed between the union and the ministry back in 2009, may not be a legal act, but it certainly is a moral act. What is not illegal does not necessarily mean that it is right, so I repeat the question: Do you know how widespread such a practice is, in other words, that executives play and write overtime to nurses when they should still be gay, so on their days off? I'm interested not only in references to laws, but: What is your specific view of such practice? What are you going to do to cut off employees like this? I will be most pleased and most happy if an annex to the collective agreement is adopted and then legal arrangements are made and such malfeasances can be appealed, but given that the nurses strike tomorrow, these talks and these negotiations do not show excessively good. In any event, order should be made to respect the rights of employees, including those who are only moral, based on the verticality of the home of older citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u225	Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. It has to be legal. The directors of public welfare institutions are competent to run the institution and are therefore also responsible for organising the work process. They are therefore acting in accordance with the law, with an agreement signed that is not legally binding, but we have pointed out the possibility, the Ministry of Labour has repeatedly and repeatedly said publicly that we want to agree in public institutions, to come to an agreement that is of course legal and ensures that employees are satisfied because satisfied employees within the framework of the law and legal options are so that users and users are also given the highest quality of service. In any event, negotiations are aimed at establishing an annex to the collective agreement, where this would be more clearly and more accurately stated that there would be no distinction between individual public welfare institutions, the best way to determine this. You ask me about it, while you don't even tell me what the Goran institution you're referring to is, you don't mention it, and you ask me to tell you how common this practice is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u227	Mr. Miha Kordish, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u228	Thank you. What was understood from the Minister's replies is that she did not define herself to this practice whether it was right or wrong, but referred to agreements between employees and the management of individual homes of older citizens and to what counts being satisfied are employees. But look, the employees aren't happy. They are played and they are intimidated, which is also the reason that they may not have as much bargaining power as organised workers in other sectors, and which is the reason why in a collective agreement or elsewhere it is not specified that management should not write overtime of employees on days off, as if they were then Frej, and thus play them. The reference to legislation and the negotiations that are under way is simply a shift away from the problem that is ahead of us, so that here the leaders of the home of older citizens, some, not all, act self-sufficiently and to save on the shoulders of employees. The Ministry of Justice recruits its members into the councils of these institutions and can engulf, may intervene, may look at the functioning of the home of older citizens, where fraud is taking place, and may take appropriate action, in such a way that such anti-work leadership is resolved. But this is obviously not on the agenda of the current Minister for the Work of Anya Kopač Dark, because he refuses to solve this problem or wants to recognize it at all. That is why I want a debate in the National Assembly. Infringement of the rights of employees, obstructions of labour law – these may be totally legal receptions, but they are certainly not right and they are not fair and must be acted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u229	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Mrs. Tomić, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. Minister Židan, three years ago at a round table, you stated that the future of Slovenian food depends on the consumer, who is supposed to recognize and choose local quality products. With this you have washed your hands for the responsibility you carry for the future of Slovenian food as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and transferred it to the population. I mean, what's this all about? A few days ago, Slovenian farmers brought this “teglc” kumaric to my office. I'm not gonna say a glass on purpose, it's from a glass. In short, they sell it under the trademark of one of the major traders in our country, and the label is equipped with a logo of Slovenia, my country. This leads us to believe that they are Slovenian cucumbers, but when I look at the declaration, I see that they are produced by a Slovenian company. And if I fall for you when you say that we are all responsible for the future of Slovenian food, of course I will buy them responsiblely, confident that I support the Slovenian farmer, by also contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gases and so on. However, it is a serious deception, which is made possible by Slovenian and European legislation, because it does not indicate the origin of the main ingredient, and this is kumaric, but only the origin of the final product. The manufacturer listed here on the declaration boasts on his website that he is one of the largest import and distribution companies for drink and food, that he is clearly led by profit and that he will probably buy what he will then pack at the lowest possible price. It's not about the farm, it's not about the farm company, it's not about the cooperative, it's about the importer. These cucumbers here can be from Slovenia, Croatia or even China, which is why I am interested: Do you have any idea where these cucumbers came from? How does anyone know where these cucumbers came from, who produced them, where they were grown, how they were produced? In short, how should the consumer decide to take care of the future of Slovenian food if there is no way to know where this is from. Two years ago, the results of the European Eurobarometer survey were published, which found that 80% of Slovenians wanted to buy Slovenian food or at least know the origin of food, they did not want to know who did it, maybe it was made in Slovenia, or maybe not, they didn't care who put the label or packed it, but who produced it. Our farmers, our farmers, are very difficult to compete on the European market, so I am interested: What did you do in this mandate to introduce such a label to show who produced it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u231	Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u232	Unlike you, honourable Member, I do not think that our consumers are less smart than you, and you have also found that this is a Slovenian product, because the cucumber has been processed and this has changed the way of this cucumber in Slovenia, which is why it is a Slovenian product, and you have also probably also found that the cucumber itself does not come from Slovenia. If you find that out, the consumer will also find out, not to put our consumers in the first place. The fact is, in a way, that you have indicated that the regulation of food labelling itself is not a Slovenian regulation is a European regulation. This European regulation very clearly shows how meat should be labelled, even if its functionality is changed, such as minced meat, it must still be marked with the origin of meat, and for the products themselves this traceability is lost, except for the first one, unless the manufacturer voluntarily designates it, each producer, including Slovenia, has this possibility, and at the moment when it denotes the superstandards that are prescribed, then it guarantees something and, on the other hand, it also has the control of what it guarantees. [[…]] The next option is the possibility of going into the scheme. In Slovenia, unfortunately, we were significantly too late. For too long, coordination took place, introduction of a scheme of selected quality Slovenia. The selected quality of Slovenia is known for its dairy products to ensure not only that sterilised milk is made in Slovenia, but also that the raw material is 100% Slovenian. Two sectors in the milk sector have entered a similar scheme, and you are aware that the fruit sector has entered this scheme, but has asked to start a year later, because there is simply not enough fruit due to the cold. At this point, they are very close to this, but final arrangements must be reached, by producers of vegetables and later cereals, and most of the relevant sectors in Slovenia are then covered. Is there any other option under European law? This option will open when a new regulation is adopted, as an expert in this field, I assume that you are monitoring the phase of the new European Labelling Regulation, then there is a theoretical possibility of voluntary regulation in Slovenia, and there is also a possibility of a pilot project, which is limited in time. For example, France announced and notified the pilot project at the end of 2017 and must end it at the end of this year. On our own, on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, we discussed whether we would go to a pilot project, the Ministry prepared draft two legal acts, both for the pilot project and for the voluntary labelling project, but there was consensus among stakeholders in the food area to wait for the results of the selected quality of Slovenia. The results are already showing the most visible in milk, which is the first sector to enter the selected quality of Slovenia, probably because of this, but not only because the consumer now has a guarantee that the raw material is Slovenian, not just a product, the production of consumer milk in Slovenia increased by more than 10% last year, the production of fermented products with the highest added value increased by more than 20% and increased, interestingly, also the production of cheese. Other sectors are also heading this way. However, it is something that, I suppose, the honourable Member, you are also aware that the sector is entering the public-private financing scheme, which in practice means that consensus must be reached between those who produce and process, and only after agreement has been reached does the state enter with the funding of 50%. And this is the only way right now. What is important – although I have the feeling that I will have some time at my disposal later – is the urgency of a draft European regulation that will be amended. At the moment, the two European Regulations designate minimum and mandatory labelling standards, but in fact the labelling of raw materials is also voluntary, which is really possible now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u233	Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request a reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u234	Minister, with quality schemes, the ministry is really very creative. We already have enough to count, and I think the buyer should go to the store with a manual to know what he's actually buying. Here we have a protected designation of origin, a protected geographical indication, a guaranteed traditional speciality, a higher quality, organic production, integrated production and the last crop you mentioned, the chosen quality. This last one then has two more subcategories, the first one is produced in Slovenia, and one is not, and then you have to be very careful not to make mistakes. First, let me tell you that I do not underestimate consumers, nor do I underestimate our farmer. Our farmer would like to be competitive and I would like to have our grown cucumbers here in this “truck” inside, and that is why I ask you. I know that in 2016 you met with the Slovak Minister for Agriculture, who also touched on this issue of mandatory labelling of raw materials of agricultural products, and that opinions on this issue are shared at European Union level. Minister, you have highlighted Slovenia's position that the consumer has the right to know. Well, here we agree, the consumer needs to know where the hell these cucumbers come from. Slovenia has drawn up two versions of the legal regulation, one based on mandatory labelling, as you said, following the example of France, and the other on voluntary labelling following the pattern of Slovakia and the Czech Republic. You just mentioned a pilot project and I'm interested in: If France really has this pilot project already in place, why don't we? What is the difference between our voluntary marking and the system that the Czech Republic and Slovakia now have? What have you done with all these regulations you've been making so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u235	Mag. Dean Jedhan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u236	Slovenia is one of those countries, but we do not represent the majority, which at European level advocates that for each raw material, the primary raw material is said to be not every smaller, known source. As I, I hope, have said enough plasticly, marking unfortunately is not the responsibility of individual countries, this is a common single European legal order because it is part of the single market. We are not here in most countries because we advocate the mandatory labelling of raw materials. It is clear to me that the exporting countries are in favour of a different designation, and this is the indication that the raw material is from the European Union. This is of course not in the interest of Slovenia. France has gone to test, but, honourable Member, pay attention to the length of the test. France must also withdraw everything it has done by the end of this year and cease to label it as such. The same is true of Italy, which has followed a similar course. We, as an administration, as a ministry, were prepared to go to Slovenia or through the system of France, also through the Czech Republic, we both studied, we also had benchmarking on both or three possible proposals, and then we came with this question before, say, the most professional body existing in Slovenia, which unites, respected, representatives of farmers both through trade unions and through their chamber, that is, the agricultural chambers, as through young farmers, through the Chamber of Commerce and a number of others, professionally, and there was a unified view that the Ministry should not go further with the act of a pilot project not a voluntary designation, because we achieve the main goal with the system of the chosen quality of Slovenia. The current results in the selected quality of Slovenia, which appear in the area of milk, are encouraging. I myself would like to have, because all legal or administrative conditions are met, the fruit sector in the system already, but because of the two-year dropout of fruit is simply not enough and therefore wants the sector, and of course this country will take into account, to postpone its scheme to 2019. In recent meetings, the entry scheme was also decided by the vegetable sector, because they found that only a unequivocal sign that the raw material is Slovenian gives some stable competitive advantage, which is conditioned by the consumer seeking domestic raw material. I think this path is appropriate, but unfortunately, the draft legal act that will regulate the new labelling at European Union level, which also speaks of the labelling of raw materials in food products, is again based on volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u237	Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. As you told me, obviously all legislation is going to destroy self-sustainment and encourage corporations, as was the invitation to small farms when those below three hectares received nothing. Plants on three hectares could come quite a bit, with smart cologne, with a vegetable and anything. In short, I deliberately brought this case, just sour cucumbers, because it is significant, and above all, I was talking about vegetables — why? Because it's the vegetables that make us the least self-sustaining. According to some data from Sursa, we were 41%, which is actually still a big increase compared to 2010, when they were supposed to be 30%. But if we ask farmers, and I talk to them a lot, this number is much lower. They estimate this to be between 7% and 8%. Perhaps it is even worse at the expense of the quasi-Slovenian cucumbers, for which no one can know where they are actually produced. All that you say we are responsible for the future of Slovenian food is a reflection of neoliberal ideology, which, unfortunately, the Social Democrats have been very well embodied over the past 25 years. Let everyone be responsible for themselves first and then for all the problems in society. Even if I accept that and say, well, I will be responsible and, say, support the Slovenian farmer and Slovenian food, I cannot be responsible because I have no information on how to act. In short, one is that the consumer has the right to know, and a whole bunch of quality schemes that multiply like mushrooms in the rain, but I don't think your ministry and the government have done anything in this mandate to really give consumers the right to know what they eat when they buy it, and especially to a farmer the right to grow and survive. I therefore request a debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u239	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Luka Mesec will raise the question of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark and the Minister for Justice of Mags. Goran Klemenčič, who is justifiably absent today. Mr. Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! As I say, I have a question for both ministers, in fact, he's more of a judicial thong, but today I'm going to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. In this mandate, all of us are still well aware of the Korean boys' case when the CSD, the centre for social work, unlawfully took two children, and although the Administrative Court later confirmed the correctness of the withdrawal or conduct of CSDs, the Government has adopted a new Family Code whereby adoptions, foster care, foster care, child abduction and so on will no longer be decided by the social work centres, but by the courts. This is where my question begins. The family code was adopted, if I am not mistaken, before a bad year, and by then after reporting to the courts, no preparations had yet been made, which of course means a lot of potential problems. First of all, judges have studied law and not social work or clinical psychology or anything like that and they are not specialised, they are not qualified to be able and able to carry out these tasks. The second problem is the number of cases, the government said that about 600 CSD cases were to be transferred to the courts per year, the District Court in Kranj, which covers the geographical unit of Gorenjska, says that it was from the Goran CSDs that data were to come to court every year in Gorenjska alone. Therefore, my first question for the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is: Are you not concerned that this court will overload how you plan to divide work between social work centres and courts? Another related issue is that the law comes into force 19. 4. 2019, it's in one year. I want to know: Are you taking any measures that the CSDs, who are supposed to advise and decide after the current regulation, are also deciding, but not just waiting for this cut-off date to come to trial? The next question may be for you, Madam Minister: Aren't you worried about formalism? As soon as the matter comes from social work centres, where everything can go as well as agreed, the courts, i.e. it becomes highly formalized, are entered by lawyers, procedures that can be carried on for years and so on. The next question is for Minister Klemenčič, please answer me orally at the next meeting. I want to know: Why has one year after the adoption of the law, the preparation in the courts still failed? How many extra staff do you plan to hire and when? We're talking about all of us, from clinical psychologists, social workers. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u241	Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u242	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Member of the Commission, thank you for the question and, above all, for the concern that this is an important novelty. After 41 years last year, the National Assembly adopted the Family Code, which has several important novelties. One and the other is probably the one you said. Over time, arrangements have been under way, you need to know that preparations have been made since 2000, when studies have been done, what and how international comparability has been made, and a decision has been taken to transfer this area from the decision-making of social work centres to the court – why? For reasons of legal certainty, the social work centres are now deciding after Zup, the administrative procedure, this is the same as obtaining a building permit if I am a bit too banal, while the courts will decide on such matters mostly in an unfair procedure, but still it is a different level of legal certainty. It was therefore a broader decision of legal certainty and also of social policy that it was the right direction to make this transfer from social work centres to the courts. Since it was always known that this transfer would not be easy, it was already in the proposal of the family law itself, which was created together with the Ministry of Justice – and at the same time other acts of law must be prepared, a change to the law on unfair procedure, so that these things can be implemented – agreed for a transitional period. So, Family Code, you didn't exactly say it was already in force, but the transfer provisions begin to apply 15. 4. next year. As we were aware that this transfer would be extremely demanding, as soon as the Family Code was approved in the National Assembly, an implementation group was set up where the Ministry of Justice, our ministry, as well as the representatives of the courts, for example, has already foreseen what training they all have, and in short these assessments are produced, this implementation group has been working all the time to raise the issues that need to be addressed. According to my information, these works and the envisaged measures to be taken are taking place according to the envisaged plan, so that no one has opened the issue of this transfer being a problem. However, the fact is that there will be no need to provide, above all, experts in clinical psychology, for the court or the judiciary to employ them is not expected; these will be external colleagues, as in this case. You should know that the Administrative Court, when deciding on the content, of course appointed clinical psychologists or psychiatrists, experts who gave an opinion. So today, if things come to court, it's decided by clinical psychologists, psychiatrists, but of course it will be significantly more. It is also agreed on the role of social work centres, of course their opinion in this process will still be extremely important and the final decision will be given by the courts. We are absolutely aware of the importance of this transfer, I can say the whole administration, both the Ministry of Justice, those responsible for this, as well as for us family directorates and all involved in this implementation group, we also have reserved money for education in this year's budget. I have not been informed that anything would be problematic, but there will certainly be a lot of one effort to make things happen, and here is that critical moment that things will be decided within some reasonable time, so that weighing, legal certainty will be much higher in this. It is right that, after an unfair procedure, these things are decided on and not on the ground of Zup, but it will be necessary to ensure that it is quickly condemned, because we know that if justice is for a long time, it is an injustice. Here within us, as a system, I speak justice and also social, there will be a number of challenges in the coming year, and we are all very fully aware of them. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u243	Mr Luka Moon, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. Somehow we have clearly different information, you're saying that the implementation group is doing everything within agreed deadlines, and on the other hand, I have information on the other hand that there is nothing moving in the courts. Here I'd like to ask you for a little more specific explanation: What is the plan of this implementation group, so how many additional staff are planned to be employed, how many additional clinical psychologists? I know they're not employees, but they're going to specialize, assign them to be available to the judges. When's all this gonna start? Please, if you can present this plan in more detail for those who are affected, but are not informed at the same time. The next related question is: How many cases do you estimate that CSDs will be transferred to the courts when the new Family Code is implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u245	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u246	I don't want to think about numbers, I need to look at how many current withdrawals or adoptions, foster care, and look at the number, so that's the number that's estimated to be moving, but at this point I don't know, we can get it, I'll look at the statistics as to how many centers they have, and we'll give you this data afterwards. With regard to the decision on the establishment, tasks and composition of the Implementation Working Group to facilitate the implementation of the Family Code, on 1 March 2017, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police, representatives of social work centres and district courts are also appointed to this group, in addition to the representatives of our Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police, because they are transferred from CSDs to district courts. All the members and members were initially asked to submit a set of all the open issues to be addressed by this group concerning three key areas, the preparation or amendment of other rules in relation to the law, namely procedural legislation, sub-laws, what I said, notably the Law on Unjust Procedure and the Law on Justice, Human Resources and Organizational Issues, the preparation and implementation of the necessary training. Members and members of that implementing working group shall work intensively within their bodies to prepare the necessary regulations, the working group at meetings shall resolve open issues and monitor progress in the work of individual bodies, and meetings of the whole working group and of individual subgroups shall be held, for example, to address specific operational issues relating to information support, mediation, education. With regard to education, we add that joint education will also be organised between CSD professionals and judges who will present the work of social work centres so far, how CSD work will take place in the future, prepare cooperation protocols and sample applications and writings for the court. According to our information, the Group for the Implementation of the Family Code, which was appointed the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, has also actively joined the preparation of the latter. Preparation for the full implementation of the code, as we are told, is in line with the timetable and the expected tasks. At this point, I was not informed that there would be anything to mediate from the point of view that things were not going as planned.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u247	Mr. Luka Moon, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u248	In fact, I do not have a request for a procedural proposal for a general discussion, but a procedural request, i.e. I would like to ask, Madam Minister, if I can provide information that you could not. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] So, send it in writing. However, I insist on the oral response of Minister Klemenčič to the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u249	All right. We have one last question. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister of Culture Mr Anton Peršak a question. Mrs. Mursich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister! Three years ago, I asked your predecessor about castles in Slovenia, about the preservation of cultural heritage very widely. I must say, she was very cooperative, and we have taken quite a few common steps to preserve this cultural heritage. However, I must say that in Slovenia we are being overly machete towards this cultural heritage, which is very important. We are underestimating the protection, conservation and development of cultural heritage, which also shows that this cultural heritage is not accessible to the public. I will specifically ask today about the castle in Styria, about the castle of Viltus in the Municipality of Selnica ob Drava. This castle has been in decline for many years, for more than 10 years, and the Ministry of Culture has carried out emergency maintenance work in 2015, including the repair of roof covering, removal of obstacles, safety support for wooden ceilings, closure of window and door openings due to intrusion. With the help of the Ministry, we have also successfully managed the park near the castle, which has been in very good condition for 3 years, managed by the Selnica ob Drava Tourist Society. This company works with listening to landscape architecture and works closely with the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the Maribor Regional Unit, which, of course, also advises them professionally. The results are priceless, and the park has lived in all its greatness. The praises come from the local people and also from tourists who are constantly staying in the park and are happy to walk around the park, and cultural events have also begun to take place in the park. Due to this and excellent part of the local enthusiasts, the park has turned into a fairy tale, and in this too the Municipality of Selnica has seen a great contribution to the tourist supplement of this place and has expressed interest in the management of the castle complex, the part of the castle, the castle chapel, which is in relatively good condition and would complement the tourist offer of the place. I want to know: What is the vision of the Ministry of Culture in the area of preservation of cultural heritage and cultural objects of national importance? What conditions should be met by any interested tenderer if he decided to take over the castle or part of the castle? What are the long-term aims of the ministry for the said castle, do you intend to rebuild it, sell it, or let it go to waste? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u251	Mr Anton Peršak, Minister for Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u252	Thank you for asking. First of all, let me say that I am very pleased with what you said about the park, as far as the status quo is concerned, or that we have turned it over to management, like how this park now lives. I will not specifically explain what is under investment, what is under investment maintenance work on individual buildings of immovable cultural heritage, I would just like to say that everything depends on the available funds available to the Ministry for these purposes. Let me say that you've asked the question a little bit more. In fact, just before the implementation in nature of the five projects that we have acquired in the framework of the calls for co-financing with European funds, together with the Ministry of Environment and Space, these are interventions into the premises of the Castle of Stanjel, the Unesco Heritage Centre of the Hive on Igu, then the Notran Regional Park, the reconstruction of the Port and the Park of the Castle of Sneznik, the partial reconstruction and revitalization of the Borl Castle and the restoration and revitalization of the area of the former Auersperg Iron Palace at Žuzemberk. The total value of these projects is €6 million, €526 000, 80% from European funds and 20% from our participation. In addition, the Ministry is working a number of smaller investment maintenance operations this year, from the rehabilitation of the support walls at the Ptuj Castle, which are being demolished, the rehabilitation of the wall and the terrace at the Borl Castle in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, the construction of the building for the transformer station in the area of the Snežnik Castle, which is a condition for the rest, to the necessary investment maintenance works at the home of France Prešern in Vrba, maintenance works at the home of Fran Saleško Finžgar and in connection with Viltush. You yourself know that around EUR 500 000 has been invested in the last 20 years, of course our ambition is primarily to get the controller, but the operator who will meet the conditions under the law. We have considered two proposals so far, but unfortunately both of them have resigned, so we are also trying to reform the law on cultural heritage, which would allow for slightly different conditions for this purpose, from the law on real property of the country and local communities, which is quite [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u253	Mrs. Bojana Muršič, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. You have really answered quite a broad question, which castles will receive some additional funds this year, but my parliamentary question was more about the castle of Viltus. You mentioned, however, that there were two proposals for an operator and that none of them met the legal conditions. However, I believe that your answer to the Municipality of Selnica ob Drava, which has submitted an application and has the intention to actually invest in the facility, at least part of the facility, is the answer that it is actually necessary to provide security or that the facility is not safe, unacceptable, because the answer was given by your Ministry after a good 6-month period. The Municipality of Selnica ob Drava addressed to your ministry a question or request for free management of the chapel of August, the answer came only in January of this year. I think it's important to aim for someone to start dealing with this castle, that the castle lives at least in the part where it can be used in a protected way. Given the state that it is, I believe it would be possible to arrange it, at least in that western part, because there are doors open and this chapel could live. Of course, the Municipality of Selnica next to Drava would devote some additional resources, as well as the entire building complex would get even more added value, because, as I mentioned, the park has added value, it is really beautiful and it would be a shame to have the castle torn down in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u255	Minister Peršak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u256	Thank you. You know the problems of this castle are two. One is that static recovery is urgently needed, and a static recovery project is also made, and the responsibility in this area is too great to risk any dangerous event. The second is that the castle has been specifically designed with a particularly durable home sponge and that experts have been involved with the possibility of remedying this problem for several years because it is not a common sponge. What is most important, however, is that all of this is possible if the Ministry or if the state makes a greater contribution to the facilities of this type. Let me tell you that the Ministry has less than 870,000 euros this year for this purpose, of which 600 000 for those investment pooling purposes that I have previously counted, and about 270 000 for current maintenance. That is why we strongly support the adoption of the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes, and in this context, Viltus is, of course, one of those priority facilities that would receive static rehabilitation first and then further. In the interest of the ministry, which faces the problem of how to save an inheritance, it is, of course, that it also finds the administrators. Actually, there are two obstacles. One is that we need to ensure real security, not just some limited access, because we know that then a lot can happen, and the castle is dangerous, that is a fact. Secondly, in order to regulate the possibility of surrendering to management or rent by placing obstacles to this law, which I mentioned earlier, the Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities will currently impose. I'm not talking about this particular case right now, where there are more important obstacles of the first kind, but many times someone is interested in objects, after we explain to him the terms of the real estate law, and they say, and then I don't care, because in five years, I don't know what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u257	Mag. Bojana Muršič, please, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u258	I'm not going to ask for a procedural proposal, but I'm going to use it procedurally. For the first time, because I want this castle is actually true, as you have already mentioned, for as long as it has been on the waiting list for renewal, it has already been on sale, and we have not been successful. [[…]] Now we have a potential manager who wants to manage at least a part of the castle, and I also understand your concern that we need to ensure the safety of all who visit this facility, but you need to be aware that this castle facility actually belongs in the castle park, and I don't know where it leads to the castle falling down because the castle is really falling apart from year to year. With what is your intention and waiting, it is a priority, but – when will it be a priority? Five years from now? At that time, I do not think the ministry will have that much money either, because it should be invested in this facility in my laziness between €8 million and €10 million in order to fully restore it. But today I was only talking about the part of the facility, it's called a castle chapel, and this part could be separated from this castle, I'll say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-02-12-SDZ7-Redna-38.ana.u259	To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 13 February, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. All of you have a nice night together. Thank you very much.
