ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 39th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Marusha Škopac from 17.30 p.m., Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mr Roberto Battelli, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Franz Breznik, Dr Dragan Matić until 14 p.m., Mr Ivan Prelog, mag. Aleksander Kavčič, Miha Kordiš, and between 1:00 and 5:00, I will be away by myself. I welcome everyone here. We move on to the 1st A-point of the agenda, this is Dr. Miroslav Cerar's announcement on the derogation from the function of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miroslav Cerar, wrote to me by letter dated 15. 3. 2018 has notified that, pursuant to Article 12 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he has resigned from his office as President of the Government. To the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miroslav Cerar, I give the floor to explain the resignation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, dear citizens and citizens! On Monday, 25 August 2014, I, honourable Members, swore before you as newly elected President of the Government that I would respect the constitutional order, follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia. Today, when I am aware of the reasons for the resignation of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I would like to say clearly and loudly: I have respected the constitutional order, I have acted on my conscience and I have worked with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. In a very eloquent way, these three aspects of the oath connected exactly last Wednesday. Just because I acted consistently in my conscience, I had to step down in response to the Supreme Court's judgment, which in many ways resulted in the execution of the judgments of the Constitutional Court. I also resigned because the events of the last weeks and days were no longer in the interest of the welfare of Slovenia, but of a type of partisan interest, and I am thinking mainly of anti-development behaviour and the increasingly difficult pre-election appetites of various political and other actors. But in addition to the reasons, the conditions are also necessary. All the work of our government so far for the welfare of Slovenia has created the conditions that this principle move of resignation does not pose any dramatic risks, but opens up a completely normal democratic process of seeking a new social consensus. In order to find this consensus in the future, which will first prove to be the will of citizens and citizens in the elections, and then, with the wisdom of elected representatives in forming a new coalition, the key questions will be some, which have essentially come to light in the days of the resignation. First time. Is it really permissible to cause new injustices in order to correct the real injustices that have accumulated in the pay system during the years of the crisis? Another time. Are the key infrastructure projects of our present and future really allowed to abuse every possible democratic path? And not last. Will the branches of government really be able to think and live separately, not hierarchically, but still as branches of the same common country tree? Yes, I am talking about the future of our pay system, our economic system, our justice system and the consensus that is necessary within each of them in order for this society to progress not uniformly, not unilaterally, but even less in a one-sided way, but, yes, and above all, to progress. I view society as a whole in which there must be a fair relationship between different groups, and I have therefore stressed in my resignation that I see the duty of each individual to others before his right. This is the only way we can move forward in solidarity and together forward. Slovenia has made progress over the last three years. Today it is in a significantly better position than in 2014. We have one of the highest economic growth in the European Union. We have the lowest unemployment since 2009. For the first time in ten years, we expect surpluses in the state budget. This year, public debt will fall below 72% of GDP and new investors will create new, decent jobs. But I'm not talking about the balance sheet here today. You know and experience it all, even if you don't admit it. With a principled decision, we want to show that even in the policy of this art of compromise and art, it is possible that even in politics, when a compromise is simply not acceptable when it is necessary to insist on a difference in the price of an open future. Not necessarily the difference between left and right, nor necessarily the difference between old and new, but simply the difference between right and wrong. This is a key difference in responsible policy if it wants to be on the right side of history. Such differences include the building of whole social systems, the rule of law, the accessibility of public education, a developmental and non-exploitary economic system, a safe and dignified age. And that's the kind of Slovenia I'm talking about! I have worked for her and for her citizens through the Constitution, conscience and the best of powers, so with a somewhat heavy heart, I keep you informed of my resignation. I would like to thank the distinguished National Assembly, the President, Members and Members, the professional staff and all other staff in it for all that you have done well for Slovenia and its citizens and citizens in this mandate. Thanks for the hard work goes also to colleagues and colleagues in the government and to all co-workers in the state and wider public administration. You know what it's like to win, to win, to defeat the president. The first was more than the second, so I believe we will be judged by our results. For all the good I also thank all the others who do well in other state bodies and institutions. On this occasion, let me say in particular that this government, in cooperation with the National Assembly, will do its utmost to protect the interests of the State and citizens in the New Ljubljana Bank and will have to negotiate with the unions the future government. I am sorry, because we have been very, very close to a reasonable and sustainable agreement and a good basis has been reached. As at our party's recent congress, let me end with the words of this year's Prešeren Prizewiner, the great Boris A. Novak: "I choose a bird between heaven and earth. I don't choose any between a minor and a greater evil. I choose hope between despair and hope. It's harder to wear." After almost four years of government management, I know how difficult it is to bear hope, and above all I know that it is harder to do right and well and hope for good than just to criticize and remain passive. But in order to bring hope forward, I must return the mandate. I didn't give up. I just gave up. Until the election of the new government, I will do my best to ensure that our government does all the current and urgent work so that we can continue to be proud of our Slovenia. Dear Members, honourable Members, dear citizens and citizens! Long live modern, solidarity and freedom of mind Slovenia. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u3	In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, notes that Dr Miroslav Cerar has ceased to serve as Prime Minister of the Government and has also ceased to serve as Ministers. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miroslav Cerar and the ministers shall carry out ongoing operations until the election of the new Prime Minister and the appointment of new ministers. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 220 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will inform the President of the Republic thereof. Dr. Miro Cerar, I thank you for your work, and I wish you well in your further work. This concludes the 1st A-point of the agenda. We're moving on to 15. On the day-to-day basis, secondly, the bill on non-governmental organizations in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of Public Administration, who carries out the current business, Mr Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members and Members! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on NGOs, which was adopted by the Government at its meeting on 18 October 2017 and also forwarded to the National Assembly. Let me stress that the process of drafting this system law has taken place explicitly [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u5	A little peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u6	Participatively with key stakeholders who have participated very actively in the design of the overall solutions, and therefore we believe that the law has high public support, particularly those who are most interested in this area. [[…]] The main purpose of the law is to regulate the status of NGOs in an integrated manner and, of course, to accelerate their development. The law defines when an organisation is considered to be a non-governmental organisation. We are entering into the Slovenian legal order a single definition that has not been defined so far. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u7	Can I have some peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u8	and promote the regulation of the status of NGOs in the public interest. [[…]] Today, we have a situation in the area of NGOs that we have more than 20,000 organisations, and only 0.83% of their employment is in total employment, while the average of the European Union is more than 5% of its employees, indicating that the non-governmental sector is very numerous and very weak in its share of society. For non-governmental organisations, the law provides that it is a person of private law who is to be established in the Republic of Slovenia, which is neither profitable nor profitable, which means that it has not been set up to generate profits and that any excess of income over expenditure is actually spent on its own development and cannot be paid to their founders or stakeholders. It is important that it is independent of state authorities, political parties and companies. However, in the case of a non-governmental organisation of a special or public interest, the programme of future action must be developed and it must be specified how it will carry out activities of public interest and, at the same time, it must also demonstrate the significant achievements already made. With an amendment to the Committee, the law also provides for the establishment of a budget fund to stabilise and accelerate the development of non-governmental organisations, which stakeholders themselves in this area have also been very eager and difficult to expect. However, NGOs with a status in the public interest may also have the advantage of running on different calls, as this special status actually allows them to do so. It is important that we have also arranged for the Single Register of NGOs to be kept up-to-date in one of the cities of Apes, which is a designated public agency, and in this way we will manage the fragmented records that are now being maintained through the various departments that assign this special status to the organisation in the public interest. However, it is important that the law also lays the groundwork for adopting a specific strategy for the development of NGOs. To conclude, let me say only those fundamental guidelines that we want to encourage both by law and by this strategy. In particular, strengthening the non-governmental sector through the integration of highly fragmented organisations, by stabilising business both through funding and through various forms of training and education, which are already taking place so that NGOs can plan their operations more stable and long-term. Professionalisation is also an important objective; therefore, that a greater proportion of the non-governmental organisation's employees will be permanently employed for an indefinite period of time and thus bring stability in the field of the non-governmental sector. While we are also pursuing a more precisely defined positive impact, the so-called social impact or the positive social impact of NGOs, we are also stressing again and again, this is reflected in the strategy, it also follows from the law that public funds are rightly allocated to NGOs when they have a positive social impact in society and, as a result, they are also burdening public services and public transfers, because they are often more effective and proactive than formal state organisations. I also ask the esteemed National Assembly to bring together the third hearing or to carry out a third consideration of the proposal of this Act already at this meeting, thus also allowing the adoption of this systemic and difficult to expect law for the non-governmental sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u9	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, President. A respected minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament is a very nice greeting! The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 65th emergency meeting, on 2 December 2016. 3. 2018 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on NGOs submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The representative of the proposer provided an additional explanation to the article of the bill and said that this proposal for the law, for the first time, covered the field of NGOs in its entirety. He said that the Government believes it is essential that the non-governmental sector in the country be strengthened. The main purpose of the bill is to regulate the status of NGOs, including NGOs in the public interest, to regulate the competence and responsibility of ministries and to ensure the accelerated development of the non-governmental sector. The main objective of NGOs is to create a social impact on reducing the problem in various areas in society where NGOs can be significantly more effective than formal state organisations. He said that the Government wants stable funding from NGOs in line with budgetary resources. At the time of presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the legislative and technical approach to the drafting of the bill, including amendments to other laws, in order to ensure their alignment with the provisions of the draft law itself. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission supported the proposal for state regulation by assessing that the purpose of the law was positive. In the debate, the members of the Commission for State regulation raised a number of questions. The Director of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs expressed satisfaction that the proposal for a law on NGOs was finally in the legislative process, as it had been difficult to expect for decades. He said that NGOs had been strongly involved throughout the process in the drafting of the bill. He also expressed support for the proposals for amendments to the Committee. The President of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to promote the development of volunteering, voluntary and non-governmental organisations has expressed satisfaction that the proposal for legislation is in the legislative process after ten years and has also expressed support for the Committee's amendments. The Executive Director of Slovenian Philanthropy expressed support for the bill and the amendments to the committee. The president of the Slovenian Youth Council expressed his disappointment that the Youth Council was expressly excluded from the definition of NGOs in Slovenia. The Secretary-General of the Association of Youth Friends of Slovenia agreed with representatives of other NGOs. It expressed its satisfaction that NGOs have been closely involved in the drafting of the bill all the time. She called for support for the Committee's amendments. Members of the coalition expressed their support for the bill and commended the fact that the systemic part of the funding was established and also expressed support for the amendments to the committee. Members of the opposition expressed satisfaction that most NGOs were satisfied with the bill and commended some very good solutions to the bill, including a single register of NGOs. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups. The Committee also voted on the amendments of the New Slovenia Group but did not accept them. In the debate, the Committee adopted the following decision to propose to the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government that the next item of the agenda be placed on the agenda of the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, namely the Proposal for a Law on Non-Governmental Organisations, which is before us. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u11	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Non-governmental organisations are a vital part of society, without which a wide range of areas would be desolated. They represent an important contribution to the development and realization of democracy and human rights and ensure the participation of civil society in policy-making. This should be the key mission of NGOs. In practice, however, despite the pathetic words we have heard from the mouth of the former Prime Minister of the Government, he is moving increasingly in a direction where NGOs are partly, and in some cases they are almost fully taking over the functions that should be performed by the State. The continuing tendency to privatise health, education, social rights, cultural resources, science and sport is further exacerbating these problems. Just like a failed social policy. This trend needs to be halted, and it can only be stopped by changing the system and not only by cosmetic adjustments. We see that capitalism also creates poverty and inequality at the time of growth. There are still 280,000 people living on the threshold of poverty, 46,000 of whom are children and 1 in 4 single - parent families. The statistical threshold for poverty has dropped to the minimum cost of living, indicating that poor people are living worse today than before the crisis. Although it seems low, income inequality is increasing, wealth inequality on the other hand is enormous. 10% of the richest households own more than 47% of all assets and the poorest 20% own only 0.5%. Poverty and inequality are the consequences of unemployment, vanity, and too low wages and pensions. The so-called Social Policy with a low minimum wage and even lower social contributions provides cheap labour to capital and leaves the poor in extreme poverty. All those who live below the poverty line, the unemployed, the pensioners with miserable pensions and the increasing number of employees who cannot live with their wages, can count on the help of the State for less and less. You can't be saved by the state for 100 or some 100 euros, save this aid from the humanitarian community. A free warm meal shall not be provided by the State and shall be provided by a local society. The State does not provide for the health care of individuals who do not have regulated health insurance; they will provide for a bono ambulance, an ambulance whose status the State does not wish to regulate. Similar cases where the country has fully transferred its responsibility and responsibility for implementing social policy to non-governmental organisations are unfortunately increasing. The decomposition of the social state will continue rapidly without a change in the system. If we really want to regulate the area of NGOs, then there will be more than just a new law. Non-governmental organisations should be assured that they will once again carry out their basic mission to complement or add value, not key social policy enforcement and other key policies of the country. This can only be ensured: for the first time, with a decent pay for work that must be at least 20% higher than the minimum cost of living; for the second time, by raising the lowest pensions to a level that ensures a decent life; for the third time, by eliminating poverty and reducing income inequality; for the fourth time, by providing everyone with an accessible quality and free education and for the fifth time, by providing all available public health services. These five steps are the basis for moving in the right direction. Without this, the trend of transferring the State's responsibility to NGOs will only increase. In Levi, of course, we will support the law, but at the same time we will strive to make NGOs an extended deadline and added value, not performers of the key functions that the country should perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u13	Mr Jani Möderndorfer, SMC Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u14	President, I hope we're still at the point of a non-governmental organization, because I'm a little confused about where we are. Indeed, given that we are today considering the law on non-governmental organisations, which are not only social, but also cultural, sports and so on, and if we had listened to what we had heard before, I had the feeling that we had missed the point. Okay, I get it. We're just ahead of the election. Well, let's do it in a row. SMC will support the NGO law for one simple reason, because those countries that are developed countries also have a highly developed non-governmental sector and 27 000 500 NGOs are a eloquent number, which speaks of us as being among those countries that must also offer their response to this number and, above all, to the work carried out by NGOs. It's very significant, and I'd say so. In the non-governmental sector, we would say today: Well, we have it – a law on NGOs. What will this marriage look like, what will it be like in life? I am sure that in a few years' time we will also be discussing changes in this law, improvements, especially in the area where the non-governmental sector has pointed out that it needs to be corrected; of course, with one goal: because the non-governmental sector has complemented the state, and I do not - I hope that it will never - extend the country's deadline. Because if it becomes an extension, it is no longer the non-governmental sector, but the government sector. This is how some people have to clear up their ideas about what they are actually talking about when they present their views and views. In the SMC, we will not support the two supplements that we have on the table today. The first supplement was complemented by the SDS, which in a perfidious way changes the way funding is provided and wants to maintain that form of funding method, that each government will decide what the rest of the funds will go on – those whose citizens and citizens have not identified which NGOs to go to and which is even more important, from which the state has long since said that these funds are earmarked for the non-governmental sector. The second amendment, tabled by Nova Slovenija, is also not, because in fact it wants to bring the Youth Council back as a kind of non-governmental organisation with an excuse that it is; but we all know and even know that it is not, because they themselves recognise in their own explanation that they do not meet all the conditions, but only most of the conditions. In fact, one is disturbing: they also have political underages. This law, of course, means, together with all the changes we have made on the committee, that it actually brings about a kind of beginning of recognition, even formally through the law, that NGOs really do it in a different way, in a kind of way that is closer to people and civil society. In fact, for a long time, we have been classifying the non-governmental sector as one of the pillars of civil society, a pillar that you simply cannot ignore, not ignore, but rather to finance and allow them to do what they know best in their field, of course, and what they are also trained to do. In the SMC Group we welcome the law, of course also the solutions, and thus the clear message that we are in favour and will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u15	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u16	Thank you, President, for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting! A new day, a new marriage, bureaucratic obstacles and so on. It's all in this marriage, too. The new law, although the Legislative and Legal Service has highlighted a problematic legislative and technical approach to the drafting of the law, since the law includes amendments to other laws, which is in excess of twenty laws. Let us recall the discussions of the opposition at the time, which are now silent because they are doing exactly what they have denied the other coalitions that we are interfering with more than 20 laws with one law. What did the Legal and Legal Service say? Unfortunately, interventions are limited not only to the termination of individual provisions or parts thereof, but are designed as novelties, and only one article is included. Such an approach is constitutionally inadequate and reduces the level of legal certainty. Such an approach is constitutionally inadequate – half an hour ago the President of the Government spoke in resignation, as he respected the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia! In the first law we are considering, however, we see that it is a constitutionally inadequate and legally securely incomplete law. By word of mouth, non-governmental organisations represent civil society by many of our people, but we all know that such a definition is a little misleading. Last but not least, the fact that we have an up-to-date Society Act that defines a lot of things, but this law also takes a lot of things into transitional provisions. Of course, in the SDS Group we are pleased that many organisations, many societies in the field of humanitarian activities, sports, firefighting and not know which other sectors are actively involved. However, we also have black dots that show that in the field of NGOs not everything is as great as those who propose this law. One of the first issues we face in addressing this law is the provisions that say that NGOs must be non-profit, non-profit and independent, and then in the media we follow organisations that are very profitable, have very much profits, and, finally, we cannot say that they are independent organisations. One example is likely: The Peace Institute. If the Peace Institute is the concept of an NGO under this law, then I really don't see any problem why it shouldn't be the Youth Council. I personally know the functioning of the Youth Council, it was not always ideal, but the various stakeholders in the political parties or their underages as well as other stakeholders in this Youth Council were actively involved in the area covered by today's law. In our opinion, the law is also a typical bureaucratic law. There are a lot of formulas, dictatorships, a lot of records and, as the predecessor has already said, we will surely soon face a novelty of this law when we find that there are many problems behind many beautiful words that this law brings in practice. Of course, there are some things that need to be changed in the field of the operation of non-governmental organisations, but in the opinion of the SDS Member State, all the ways in which, for the first time, this law interferes with twenty other laws, all the ways in which they speak about the financing of non-governmental organisations, are not the right way to give support. Therefore, we will not support this law in the SDS Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u18	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! We have a proposal for a law in the framework of a very broad debate that has been in existence for two years, so we can reasonably assess that the proposal is in line with all stakeholders and has a lot of public support. The bill finally defines the concept of non-governmental organisations that have to meet legal conditions and, above all, the proposal constitutes a fundamental or uniform legal basis for all NGOs. Let me briefly repeat the solutions that the proposal brings. The proposal defines the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest currently governed by the Social Act and the other sectoral legislation provides for the possibility of obtaining status to private institutions and institutions. The proposal for a law will fully unify this area. The bill also provides a single record of all NGOs led by Apes, as the current record is flawed, each of which is kept for itself. In order to encourage the development of NGOs, the proposal for a law also provides for the acquisition of certain rights and benefits for NGOs and could also be listed. Of course, in the Desus Group we support such a proposal. We believe that it is prepared by means of the assistance or cooperation of both representatives of NGOs to which the content relates, as well as other stakeholders participating in the working group on the preparation of the law under consideration. The Desus Group supported the supplement on the parent working body, which took into account the proposal of the working group which drafted the draft bill and proposed the establishment of a fund for NGOs that would help the development of NGOs in Slovenia, according to the state of NGOs. In addition, the budget line for the development of non-governmental organisations is set out more clearly for an indefinite period of time, establishing and determining the main source of funding, which is the unutilised or unallocated funding of 0.5 % of the income, to which the State has at least declared that it has already cancelled in favour of non-governmental organisations. These funds will be managed by the Ministry of Field Affairs and will be selected by the recipients on a call for proposals. This funding of NGOs will not be left to the authorities or ministers on a case-by-case basis. As I have already said, it is money that people could use under the Income Act for generally beneficial purposes; in other words, the budget has already been cancelled. For example, for 2016 we are talking about a little less than 5 million. There are so many unallocated funds left. While statistical data over the years show that people are increasingly aware of the purpose of income donation, more than half of the unallocated resources remain, it is only right that these funds are earmarked for the implementation of basic development projects and support actions by non-governmental organisations, which is also the purpose of their establishment. Another important supplement was adopted on the parent’s working body. In fact, companies not established in the Republic of Slovenia have a public interest status on the day of entry into force in the field governed by the War Veterans Act have the status of a non-governmental organisation. With this supplement, we have solved the issue of co-financing of two veteran foreign organisations, since the acquisition of the status of a non-governmental organisation is solely linked to the seat of a non-governmental organisation in the Republic of Slovenia. The Union of Korean partisans and friends of anti-fascist resistance in Celovac and the Union of War Disabled People's Liberation Army from Trieste are defined in the Republic of Slovenia as companies of public interest, which is why we believe they are also entitled to finance their public-interest activities in the field of war veterans. In view of what we say in the Desus Group, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u19	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u20	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On 28 February, 27 thousand 673 NGOs were registered in Slovenia, including 24 thousand 154 companies and a thousand 262 private institutions and 257 institutions. A lot. Definitely. The third sector, as we call it, already has its own umbrella organisation financed by the State budget, we are talking about the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs and large numbers of allocated funds. In Nova Slovenija we welcome the proposal for a new law that is supposed to fully regulate the functioning of NGOs, and the government has given birth for more than two years. The legal definition is indeed necessary, as is the single record of all NGOs, but still some gray foxes remain. Let's see. These are non-profit, non-profit and independent private law entities independent of state authorities, political parties or economic operators. Are they completely independent? When we look at the applicant's explanation of why some organisations have the status of a non-governmental organisation, others, but quite the same, it is clear from far away that their independence is on torn legs. If we compare the Youth Council of Slovenia, which will not have this status, with the local youth council, which will have the status of a non-governmental organisation, comparative logic of cancellations. Local youth councils will be NGOs provided that they do not have the majority of political decision makers, the same condition should apply to the Youth Council of Slovenia. This, however, fulfils the other criteria and the argument that it is composed of young political parties is superfluous. It is as independent as the other NGOs granted this status by law. It is right that the non-governmental sector in the country is strengthened to also regulate the status of NGOs in the public interest. In Novi Slovenija we point out that we have a huge number of NGOs in Slovenia who, according to the budget received, cannot be commended for the visible results of the work – except Villa Kovacic – and should therefore ensure transparency of their scope of operation and the level of funds received. In many organisations, we can see that too much money is spent on employees' salaries only, while it is lacking in basic activities or programmes. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that this area should be rewinded more and that funding from the state budget should also be subject to different criteria. We will not oppose the proposal for a law on NGOs.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u21	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! All NGOs operating in the public interest or in order to satisfy an individual in a certain area in our society are immeasurably rich and rich, working every day, no matter what stage of action the Government or the National Assembly is at. At this point, I would also like to point out the adoption of an amendment establishing a fund for the development of non-governmental organisations. This fund would be filled with the unallocated resources of citizens and citizens of income of 0.5%, which is somewhere between €4 million and €5 million. According to publicly available data, for 2016, citizens and citizens spent €4.5 million on 5 000 707 named NGOs. The extent to which NGOs operate is also shown by the extent to which field laws are affected or better described as how many areas are regulated. We have been warned by the State legislature that such an approach is an infringement of 20 other sectoral laws, by legal certainty and, in particular, by the transparency of legislation. I hope that in a few years we will be able to say that the law has made it possible to regulate the status of NGOs and their functioning. We will support the proposal for a law, especially because representatives of NGOs have also expressed their satisfaction that after years, decades, the Government has only succeeded in drafting a bill that will allow for a systematic approach to the regulation of NGOs in implementation. In the process of drafting the law, representatives of NGOs have been constantly involved, which represents important progress, and I hope that this will also be the case after the amendments to the bill have been adopted. An important part will also have to be played by NGOs after the adoption of the law. The implementation of the law will need to be monitored to respond to possible errors or other obstacles in order to prevent or prevent the development of NGOs. We will also undermine the proposal because we have agreed that the proposed law contains a solution for the co-financing of two veteran replacement organisations, namely the Union of Korean partisans and friends of anti-fascist resistance in Celovac and the Union of War Disabled Persons in Trieste. The two veteran organisations in the Republic of Slovenia have at least so far been regarded as companies of public interest, which has also justified them to co-finance their public activities in the field of war veterans under the Social and Veterans Act. Following the provision of government representatives, co-financing will continue and remain. The bill has, as has already been said, for the first time seen the light of the world and we do not pretend to contain only the best or ideal solutions, but progress is, as has already been said, supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the amendments of the New Slovenia Group to Articles 2 and 30 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 2 and 30 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I won't, because it's just one or one. I give the floor to Mrs. Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u24	Mr. President, thank you very much. Allow me, however, to respond on my own in the debate to adopt this law. Let me first say that I am extremely pleased that the process of negotiating and coordinating between representatives of NGOs and competent ministries has expired, as it is, and that there has also been some consensus at the last stage on what we really need. It was very interesting to hear the opinion of New Slovenia, which said that the birth of this law was two years. Now, if we took him in half a year, it would be some kind of handball act, but because he was born for two years, it was, so little cynically said, if, for so long, you had him – not to say what. I think that this decision, that, at the beginning of its mandate in 2015, the Ministry is starting to agree with non-governmental organisations, has led to the fact that it is a good law, that it is indeed in agreement with all stakeholders and that this is a good success in this agreement. I myself refer to this as an advantage, and I would certainly like such decisions to be made after such long-term, say, talks as they have been in this case. We may add that some decisions may have been made only on the back steps until adoption, i.e. on the working body. I am talking about the so-called income fund or budget fund. This is about resources that we do not allocate to specific non-governmental organisations of political parties and so on and remain in budgets, so in the integrated budget they are intended for all budgetary users. In this case, there will be some kind of specific financial resource. It is also true that this financial resource is actually declining every year. However, this is still a stable financial source, which may mean that these NGOs can count on some means that will help them implement their programmes or that the law itself will not become, as the Society of Friends of Youth has written, a dead letter on paper. This usually becomes when there is no funding. We now know that a month or a half ago we were quite upset that this was how the sum was reduced or the funds for the operation of NGOs in the field of culture were falling. The problem with these organisations is also that culturers are very large consumers of European funds. Therefore, they are very successful at European calls and the weakening of this budget money is, in fact, an obstacle to participation on many occasions in these calls, as this also requires an important own share in the acquisition of funds. This stable financial resource will certainly help them, so I am evaluating as well as those who are somehow very committed to the good condition of non-governmental organisations in the field of culture, so that this share or the same law will be very helpful to them with this financial resource. Of course, it is also an important challenge for all NGOs because, this is a fact, this share of funds is shrinking. I think that they must also do a lot to increase their resources from other sources, donations and the like, so I think that their development also depends on their own actions. All these objectives, as defined in the law, are extremely important. We also know that the tradition of the non-governmental sector in some countries in Europe has led to very strong non-governmental organisations, which I consider to be one of the most important, thus increasing the share of workers in the non-governmental sector. I don't know, maybe the data from the United Kingdom is quite fascinating, where they talk about 162 thousand 200 charitable institutions with revenue of £31 billion, and it doesn't even count the so-called third sector that is under the government-controlled charitable institutions. So, because I do not want to list these data that are in some important European countries, I would like to point out that our objective must be in the development of this non-governmental sector. Of course, all these NGOs also have a major impact on some supportive environment in society, a more favourable climate, including a gross domestic product, i.e. a contribution to gross domestic product and so on. Of course, these organisations must also be aware that their operation is under the watchful eye of the public, whatever the case, and that all citizens and citizens are paying attention to how they spend this money too, because, after all, if we cooperate with them in a way that we donate to them or that we give up part of our resources to their operation, then, of course, we are quite sensitive about how we trust these organisations. And if that trust breaks, every new story is very difficult to build. I will support the law for the reasons provided in the position of the Modern Centre Party, and will not support the amendments of New Slovenia and SDS. I think that this placement of the Youth Council in the content of the law is, however, in complete disharmony with the Youth Councils Act and also with the articles defining accepted and agreed criteria for NGOs, so that I have no problems here. Of course, I have already stressed the importance of this budget fund or the income fund, so it would be contrary to my views if I supported the SDS amendments. The additional reason is that, in the case of such funding, a non-governmental organisation, i.e. stable funding, a non-governmental organisation is likely to be less dependent on the political power of its ruling parties every time, and this is of great importance to NGOs. I'd say there's nothing wrong with the NGOs ever causing us any gray hair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u25	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u26	Thank you, President, for your word. Since we are in Article 2, I will also try to stick to this article. The first paragraph of Article 2 says: “The NGO is an organisation that meets the following conditions: it is a legal person of private law established in the Republic of Slovenia” – I mean, there is no problem – “it has been established exclusively by domestic or foreign natural or legal persons of private law” – everything great, even in practice, I hope that – “is non-profitable” – we already have problems here in Slovenia. Just open up a newspaper here and see what happens in the field of NGOs that are more than actually NGOs in the field of whether they are profitable or unprofitable. Then it says it's non-profit. Same as for the upper indent. The next indent, “is independent of other entities”, I mentioned one of these non-governmental organisations, which is by no means independent of other entities, but is just an association of certain political and other interests, which is the next indent. The NGO “is not organised as a political party, church or other religious community, union or chamber”, which is fine, but as has been said, a number of NGOs are very close to a political party. Now, as concerns this Article 5 proposed by Nova Slovenije, which touches the Youth Council of Slovenia. Today we have heard, yes, because the Youth Councils Act is and therefore they have their own marriage, let the next government deal with it if it is to deal with the problems of youthful worlds. But look at what you yourself have written in the transitional and final provisions. You have changed 20 laws; the Social Act and 19 other laws are key. You've reached out to them. But no! If they are defined, close to political, NGOs can be a component of this law, I really do not see why the Youth Council of Slovenia should not be a component of this law. Now, if you're afraid of four teenagers who don't have a dominant job in the Youth Council, and I'm saying this given that I know the functioning of the Slovenian Youth Council from – uf, I'm pretty old – I think there since 1998, when I first met this organization through a political youth, and believe me, at the time they had a certain influence, they had a certain influence on political teenagers, but not least, they have it now. Let's be honest, the president of the Youth Council knows where it fits politically. We all know, but he's a super young gentleman, very active, he's trying. I really don't understand why not give the Youth Council an appropriate weight in this law, which speaks of NGOs. More than the exclusion of the Youth Council from this law at national level, this is a problem for the functioning of local youth councils. I was lucky to be one of the co-founders, but not as a representative of our young man, the junior SDS, in the establishment of the local youth world. And you won't believe that they were involved in that establishment at the time, or now the late youth of the Liberal Democrats, the Christian Democrats, the SDS, then the Social Democrats, and 12 other organizations, from the campers, the scouts and various youth societies. In short, I would really like not just some pamphlet, but yes, the youth organizations or the Youth Council have their own marriage and we save everything there, while we throw everything into this law except the Youth Council. I think that the exception of the Youth Council is not just as national organisations – let's see what the Youth Council is. “... a umbrella association of youth organisations operating at the national level. Under their umbrella, organisations combine with various interesting, visual or political orientations...«, like most NGOs – various interesting, visual and political orientations. Many NGOs have a much more politically oriented action than the Youth Council of Slovenia, in which even, once again, we know which party is its president, and even in our youth, there are no problems with this. However, if we place this at the local level, how many municipalities have active local youth councils or even the mayors want, they encourage the operation of youth councils in various ways, with nothing to do with the Youth Council of Slovenia, or anything worse to not include it in this law. I will indeed say here that I ask for some sound reasonableness of certain Members. I may understand their biggest government parties, their young ones, and I will dare say that for one term he is not a member of the Youth Council, but all the other parties represented in this Youth Council have never had problems with their interaction. Never! They were different, once again, interesting, visual and political interests, but they always agreed because they had only one goal ahead of them: the active functioning of youth policy. Once again, honourable Members, if you dared to go against the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which said that it was a constitutionally inadequate law that reduces the level of legal certainty, says the Youth Council, you have the opportunity today to correct this error. If you go completely outside the system, it really is not a problem not to give the Youth Council a chance to participate in this non-systemic law, the constitutionally disputed law. Also, if someone continues to complain and says that the Youth Council does not belong to this law, believe that other different stakeholders will come, who will say that maybe someone else does not belong to this law, but through this law we grant him different powers, different options, and, lastly, we give him the possibility of additional funding. In short, the Youth Council also deserves its name in the Law on NGOs and we will therefore support the proposed amendment of the New Slovenia Group in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President of the House. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is probably true that we have a flood of regulations, acts, strategies and so forth in this country, but when an area is addressed, at least part of what is involved is read. If we read the National Youth Programme, which is the country's strategic programme in this area, we would find that a special place within this programme is taken by the Slovenian Youth Council and taken over by local youth councils. That this country has, in the past and today, funded and structured dialogue and structured the promotion of the establishment of local youth councils, the functioning of the National Youth Council for a simple reason, because they do so all over Europe, because there is also a European Youth Council that communicates directly with the European Commission. That is why we have the National Youth Council to communicate directly on behalf of national youth organisations, which are non-governmental organisations, with the Government and determinants. And no, we have no law on youth, we have a law on local youth councils and we have a law on public interest in the youth sector. I would like to bet that if we cut down the session and shut down the electricity there is no electronic access, all of you who will be discussing – except for colleague Bezovar and perhaps excepted colleague Jana – you will not know what is written in the National Youth Programme, not in the Public Interest Act in the youth sector. I hope you don't know the workings of this, so you're trying to erase it on the board, and that's why it's not in the law. The youth world is the least for young people. Where do you place Slovenian Catholic youth, where you place your scouts, where you place your youth organization without excuse, no excuse, who fights tobacco, alcohol and so on? They're members, I understand. The young SMC has not yet fulfilled either by membership, territorial representation and under other conditions to be a member. It could be frustration. But will we, after the President of the Government has just given us up, now remove from the law the Youth Council of Slovenia, the leading national youth representative in the dialogue, when this dialogue is financed through a special structured dialogue by the European Commission, this country and we have it in two laws and in the strategic documents of this Republic? Now, if there's anything else we have to add to this, I believe we don't have to, but yes, it's just a day like this. Thank you very much, President. Of course, I will support the amendments of New Slovenia, and I agree with my colleague Lisce that the law on the table is necessary – with all the mistakes made by the Law-Legal Service – we can also agree – but the biggest error of this law will be if the generous representation of young people is excluded from cooperation with institutionalised policy, because this will ultimately be the message of the last part of this mandate. I don't want to be here.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u29	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u30	Let me go on: and you don't have to be there! Actually, it's all about money. Let's stop bluffing. It's money that actually generates so that we have a marriage in front of us today. NGOs would need a law on NGOs if we didn't talk about money? For you to have a marriage and to establish and say, this is a non-governmental organization and it works in the interests of non-governmental interests – yes, sorry, as we see it, they can work without this law. Why do we really need a marriage? So that every time a government cannot invent, when and how it will cooperate with NGOs. The fact that I have a member present to me today begins to tell me from the segment who is profitable and who is not or profited by it — what? Let's clear the term profitable. According to your explanation, they have to work on a positive zero — or, if possible, a negative non-governmental organization or what? A non-governmental organization like this is about to end. The question is, where does this profit go? Is he putting him back in the organization? It's essential and it's in the majority part! There can be no payment of profits there, there can be, I will say, some surpluses for some of its partisan interests, but there must be an organisation that, of course, works for a clear purpose. Sports organization. Well, let's talk about this, because when we talk about organisations, we all have before us, like our colleague Violet Tomić, a social organization that helps the poor, the poor, the children, and I don't know what else. That's not true! It's not just NGOs! What are we talking nonsense about?Oh, my God! Maribor is a club, professional, but however you turn it around, it's a non-governmental organization because it's a society in the end. Guys. Is this a government organization by accident? Where does he put his surplus? Back to the club. And on purpose, I'm going to say, that part of the sector, to make it look like a really big anomaly, and I don't want to compare it with the Peace Institute, which you say has surpluses or profits. And it bothers you more not to make excesses, but because you have a feeling in advance that it's colored and that it doesn't work according to your political ideas. That is why there are NGOs that do not work with yours and ours or any of our interests, but work primarily with the interest and mission for what it is set up for. And if he's in the public interest, it's clear who's giving up this status. And only then does it meet certain conditions that it may apply for invitations to tender. That's what this is about. That is why the Youth Council is problematic because it is confident that it will no longer be able to apply for tenders. That's it, that's all it's about! Yes, the Youth Council has its status with another law and has its own position, which is recognized to it, and is different and special, but forgive me, do not explain to me that young people who are united in the Youth Council have the status of a non-governmental organization, but you can explain it as much as you want, and to heaven if you want. It won't work! However, it does not matter, the second year when it meets the conditions, the SMC will also be a junior in the Youth Council, but it will still not meet the conditions for the non-governmental sector. I'm afraid not, never! Because the moment we admit this, then we have acknowledged the madness to the end; on the one hand, we say that teenagers are part of political organisations and work in the interest of political organisations within a kind of autonomy, as all teenagers have by political parties, and on the other hand we say that if they are united together because they have no common interests, but have a common interest in action in European work and a wider society, blablablabla – and that I do not say all the importance they have – and at that point we will say it is an NGO. Don't joke! The president of the Youth Council also knows that. Well, try it legitimately, but it has to be said out loud that this is not the case, and that is why this amendment is not to be supported. Do you think you'll please someone to please someone? No, you won't. We'll just make a bigger mess with this amendment. And that's the problem! As for my colleague Lisco's statement, “Are you afraid of four young people?” No, we are not afraid of four preteens; even more, they need to be supported, developed and supported throughout all normal democratic countries; there are other means, other calls and so on. We have a problem because we still have no political foundations in this country. This should be dealt with by me with the matter of marriage, because, of course, these foundations could open up the space we're looking for somewhere else. But I'm only talking about teenagers, I'm not talking about the Youth World, which now would confuse apples. This is, of course, a problem because we walk along a very thin border when things can be explained in one way or another. And for a moment, even the arguments seem good, like, or even a person would end up supporting them. I'm so sorry, but it's not to be supported. But let me warn you one more thing that seems very important to me. Today, one statement was made: MBOs are no longer successful or less, one of the Members said. They're not successful. Except for Willy Kovacich. He added it. Since when is Vili Kovacič a non-governmental organization? Unless you're confusing the notion that we're just all civil society from A to Z. And physical and non-governmental organizations all together. The provocation, which is stupid, I apologize, but Willy Kovačič is not a non-governmental organization. But if he's involved in any kind of society, it's something else, but it doesn't matter, I apologize. This organization, where he is, has no public interest status at all, but that's another story now, and I'm not even going to talk about it anymore. In short, the amendments are not to be supported, not by one, not by the other. I hope that this debate will end as soon as possible and that we will adopt this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u31	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Or a replica? Normally, the debate, yes, of course. Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President. The Council revolves around four young people, but it is true that they represent a small part of the Slovenian Youth Council and just so you know who you are throwing out now and who you are impeding a roofed youth organisation that brings together national youth organisations to carry out what the European Commission and these countries have instructed it to do as a task, say, the Youth Council. [[…]] Do you know the operation of the Youth Council? I'm guessing not. I see, good organization. Then the Mountain Union of Slovenia, you know, has its youth commission, which participates. Then we have Slovenian Catholic youth, mentioned earlier. You will not believe, all who are from the center, this less matter, the Union of Slovenian Rural Youth – an extraordinary organization, one of the most massive, most active organizations in this country. ŠCIS, Union of Student Clubs of Slovenia. Perhaps you or even one of you have been members of one of the student clubs, you know how important the student student student culture is to organize and work. And we can move on. The Slovenian Youth Council is a structure established by the European Commission's guidelines, which is based on the fact that we need a civil society that will be able to stand opposite or at the side of the policy – depending on what is necessary – and civil society will also be the foundation of democracy, as the textbooks of political science teach. Since democracy without strong civil society and therefore we support the non-governmental sector, it is not. Now, why are you going to be an opportunity for everyone I've listed, so if I exclude the underages from the mountain range to the SKAM society? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u33	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President. I am pleased and thank Mr Škobernet because he is closer to the youth organisation than I am — after years — and he knows more about his support for our amendment. But I also understand my colleague Jani, he's in charge of such a task, obviously, in the client he's doing today. I do not understand why a local organisation can be a member provided that there is not a majority of political decision-makers, but the Youth Council, where there are four political and eight non-political members out of the 12 full-fledged members, which he has also listed and I will not list again. Why not? What's the difference? This is the same if I am now based on societies, as if the vineyard society of one municipality could be a member of an association, if there are no politically active members of the majority, the association of vineyard societies, for example, Dolenjska, where there are 30 societies in it, but not. Let us also condition that the presidents are not political. Come on! I don't understand that! Jani took it somewhere else to make money, but I don't know what. That's our amendment. And that's all we want, because I don't see the logic here. And if stupid is what I said, this marriage is stupid in this case, which no one will convince me you're right. But if there's no youthful SMC in there - try harder! Then there will be five out of twelve or thirteen. Well, now there's twelve. If there's any more, there'll be 13 of them. But speaking of Willy Kovacic, he defeated Vlado himself in court, let alone if he were a non-governmental organization, if he had anyone else. But it can be. Now I hear the party's gonna be political. Don't joke, even though the Prime Minister has already resigned, let the other at least be sober!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u35	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nitz Bezovar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Let me explain in a few words. See, with the Youth Council of Slovenia we have held quite a few consultations. This solution for local youth councils is also a matter of compromise and in some way an agreement with the Youth Council. Earlier, the honourable Member of Škoberna mentioned the Mountain Union of Slovenia, the Union of Slovenian Rural Youth, in cases that are members of the Youth Council of Slovenia. That's right. They have explicitly signed to support the proposal, as it is, without these amendments. And no one takes the status of NGOs from these individual members of the Youth Council. So I must say that as far as they are concerned, nothing will get worse for them, even if they are able to gain or maintain that status. However, the problem is this aspect of non-politicalism, where, as already mentioned, the Youth Council of Slovenia has been defined, I will say, with two laws, which also give it certain legal powers and even direct funding on the basis of the budget, without public calls, but on the basis of a programme. This is a specificity and the Youth Council, as such, is a Sue generis organization that unfortunately does not meet the criteria provided for in the Proposal for a Law on NGOs before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u37	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u38	However, fellow Skoberna and similar Members Lach, of course, list and teach us here and try to seduce us with some rhetorical skills, czech, look, because there are NGOs in there, and then list names with irony, if you don't know them, and I'll explain what they are. Listen, this is about as much as I'd tell you to give 10 drops of flax oil to Cockto and you'll drink Cockto. No, you won't, but you'll be drinking Cockto with 10 drops of flax oil. Unfortunately, you have NGOs with political teenagers, but you can turn it up or down and move around and say that this is a non-governmental organisation that combines political teenagers, and let the Slovenian public understand what they want. But it's not like that. I'm sorry. One more time. Once again, there will be a young SMC within the Youth Council, but the position will be the same. Exactly the same. Those who think that today is partly different are mistaken. But you have a serious problem. But the problem is that you want to make a kind of unruly NGO that they don't know anywhere — where they think seriously with NGOs. At the local level, nothing will change for all these organisations, and everyone in the Youth Council knows that. But we'd like to show you an extra promotional effect that I don't even know where it's going. The fact is, I like that even in the Youth Council, but some Members still don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u39	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, President. Now I don't know why we don't report ourselves as we always do. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u41	Because you all get a nice word and it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u42	And then you don't know who it is or you don't know when it's your turn. [[…]] Well, a new practice after the Prime Minister's resignation. The amendment proposed by New Slovenia will be supported. I am glad that we feel the same way as New Slovenia, as the Social Democrats. Even with my colleague Scobernet, obviously, when it's actually a matter of youth interest, we can come together. Although I am sorry that, despite his promise, he did not support our proposal for the novel ZUJF, where we would take away a significant part of the funding of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which he receives from the student work, and it would be for the Youth Office, where everyone can actually apply. It would be more about scholarships, including for the S.H.I.E.L.D., for local clubs and so on. But that's the story that's gone. Now we have a law here that is truly strangely written, and on that basis I can agree with my colleague Laho. Both colleague Lah and I, we are both members of the Mirna Pec Vineyard Association, and since we are two Members, it is clearly a political organisation, no longer an NGO. Then I wonder how it was, say, with the Olympics Club when colleague Möderndorfer was president. If the Member is the President, it is obviously not a non-governmental organisation, but a political organisation, unless there is any criterion that you must leave a million minus when you leave the function, otherwise the matter is categorised. The main issue is why it can be a different status for local youth councils than for national communities. Three organisations are needed to establish a local community youth council. And these could be three teens. Of all the 12 held by the Youth Council of Slovenia, four are young. I really hope and can now tell Slovenian Democratic Youth, I believe that I can speak the same for New Slovenia's pre-teens and the young Social Democrats, that we will vote against the Youth Council if there ever is a proposal for a conclusion that the SMC will become a full-fledged member of the Slovenian Youth Council. But I don't think that's going to happen at all, because the case will be closed sooner. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Because like you, you do the opposite. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, Mr Brglez, this blackmail, I'm just saying it, as it is and as it will be if this proposal comes to an end, but this young man is going to finish the matter slowly anyway. [[…]] But when we have an amendment that would actually bring something to young people, I'll say one more thing. [[…]] The young SDS has never received a euro from the Slovenian Youth Council. All it is is the cost of 200 euros for us to pay our membership fee each year. We didn't get the euro, I believe you didn't and not Nova Slovenije. Since the matter does not work in such a way as to finance the Youth Council, it actually gives money to organisations, to members because it does not. If anyone thinks that the Youth Council of Slovenia gives money to political teenagers, he obviously does not know the operation of the Youth Council of Slovenia. It is interesting that in the Youth Council we can sit together and deal with both the left and right, both the young SDS and the young Social Democrats, and in fact some solutions come from this. Go to the website of the Youth Council of Slovenia, see the publications that they have published with concrete analyses and concrete proposals for solutions to the situation as it is in the field of youth, housing, education, the labour market, participation and so on. I really hope, because I believe that the will of some is that we will be together, I hope that, with the Desus Group, this amendment will be voted on. At that time, there have been several Members of Desus listening to our proposal, today you can accept this amendment, there will be no financial consequences, but we will all do something for the young. Because young people are full of mouths until the proposal of a law comes to the table that we are not talking about finances here, but that gives young people some status that they are doing in this society. I think that a few months ago, where many organisations sat down and gathered together, the ZDUS is also here where they were talking and having a dialogue on intergenerational cooperation. And intergenerational cooperation is important and crucial. If they can have other status NGOs, NGOs are much more political – I am talking about ZDUS – such as the political organisations you are now taking from them the status of the Youth Council of Slovenia because it has four young people within its membership. In short, it is the madness and attempt of killing additional nails into the coffin of youth, into the baptism of the youth problem, which is why I will support the amendment of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u43	Now, before I go any further, I'm going to explain a purely basic matter first. Indeed, the amendment point can be guided in such a way that the list is constantly shaped. If this were the most likely way to approach, in the beginning, we would not have this debate at all, but Parliament is essentially meant to debate. The debate is relatively interesting, controversial and I think it is quite right to take into account the practice developed by my Vice-Presidents, and I thank them for that. If it's a good practice, I'll just use it. Now I have the order of procedure, I think, the replicas and the secretary of state. In this order first gets the word replica, which I do not think will be quite a replica like some of the things we did before – not a replica, procedurally, which will not be purely procedural, because time is running out. Those things that I have heard before, I would also like to hear because we have learned both the good and the bad sides of Slovenian politics, both youthful and adults. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have to use it procedurally because you should probably break the point when someone in my name gives guarantees that I cannot give myself, because the Youth Forum of Social Democrats is a national youth organisation that is autonomous in its operation. For this reason, I can agree with my colleague Mahník, but because I am not even part of this organization and because it is autonomous, I cannot at any point, in any capacity, give no instructions, no guarantee, no hope of how, when and where they will vote – they will say themselves as an autonomous national youth organisation. Thank you very much, President, for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u45	I believe that the rules of procedure are now followed by a replica, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u46	Above all, I would like to respond to the misleading, inaccurate and, of course, subverting the abuse of my debate from the point of view of misunderstanding. For the first time, what does a natural person, who is a member of a non-governmental organization at the same time, have to explain himself to each other and, of course, he is free to stay wherever he wants. Therefore, colleague Mahnic, if you are involved in a wine-growing organisation, it will never be a problem and never a problem, as it is my problem when I am a member of the Olympics, a basketball club. Still. But it's a shame that you're replacing and abusing this with an organization in the Youth World and a discussion that's going on today. I am not talking about whether Jan Mahnic is a member of the Slovenian Democratic Youth. Far from it! And if your name were written among the members, you wouldn't have any problems until he's as young as a political organization in the Youth Council, but then we have a problem called a political young man. The word and the name say something's really wrong. Comrade Mahnič, you are young, but the way you use to disqualify yourself is talking about you first. I like it in just one part, because then I see you have no more arguments, and you're getting on a personal level. I suggest you stop doing that because you're not coming today. The MPs have read you a long time ago, and people are going to kill you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u47	Now the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nitz Bezovar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u48	Thank you, President. Just certain, I'll say, delusions or untruths. It has been said that the Youth Council is in the public interest. That's not true! The Youth Council of Slovenia has a status in the public interest on the basis of its law, on the basis of the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector, and, as I have already mentioned, it is a special sui generis body whose members will also be able to acquire the status of NGOs in the public interest under the Law on NGOs. Thus nothing is taken from this point of view to the Youth World of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u49	Replica, Mr. Jean-Mahnich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u50	Thank you. I have not spoken of any public interest and I do not know where the Secretary of State has chosen to say that the status of an organisation acting in the public interest is being taken. I didn't say that, but I said you're taking away the status of a non-governmental organization, which is what you're doing under this law. That's a little different.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u51	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u52	Thank you again, President, for your word. Tomorrow, on the agenda item, the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council – there is no vote because this coalition has decided not to need young people in the Economic and Social Council. This is exactly what I want to point out, while we have a party representing legitimately older people, the same government has a problem involving young people in the Economic and Social Council and involving the Youth Council as non-governmental organisations. It was said earlier, it's all in finance; no, your honor, it's all in status. The status that the Youth Council of Slovenia deserves to be placed in this law. And it is even more rotten when the Secretary of State said yes, but the local youth councils could be there. And that was a compromise! It's a rotten compromise, Your Honor. Local youth councils, where the municipal committee of Slovenian Democratic Youth, Youth Slovenia, New Generations, Youth Forum, can again be part of this story if they do not have the predominant position at state level – this is not the case. I really wonder whether such fear of the four political teenagers, where young people pave their way as with all other organizations, I myself, once again, set up a local youth council in our congregation, a student club in our congregation, but we knew about each other, where they belong politically, and there was no problem. But that's obviously the problem with this marriage. In the meantime, that I will not only talk about those very well-known political NGOs, I myself, as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, am meeting with NGOs. In half of these NGOs, not only do we know by name and surname who belongs to a political place, but these NGOs act contrary to what many are supposed to do; this is that NGOs act in the public interest. And we have some law when some non-governmental organization in the public interest remembers that even the country will be kept in check because of a decision. Then the Minister of the Jews comes to me and says, “What shall I do?” You know what I said when he had problems with a society in public interest, but I will not name him because of their complaints the whole of Slovenia suffers. I said shut them up, and they'll give them peace. Whatever status they had, it was a problem! Today, there are apparently four political teenagers! This is, I don't know, but I've been following the youth policy for 20 years, I've been actively working in it for some time, but now I've been monitoring it at both local and national levels, and I'm still here keeping in touch with people who were running the Youth Council of Slovenia at that time, and they were doing something for young people; but no, there are obviously four political teenagers and the Youth Council of Slovenia as a youth organization today. [[…]] Who cares that young people are not given the same chance as everyone else? Yeah, they have their own marriage. I understand. But there's a lot of other people who have their own marriage, and they kick him in among NGOs, and everything's great there, and everything's fine there, and he's not here. Mr State Secretary said that the Youth Council of Slovenia does not meet the conditions. Yeah, that's how the mother's working body decided. Today we have the opportunity to vote to change this possibility and give the Youth Council of Slovenia the status that belongs to it and the status by which we give it the opportunity to tell young people, see, regardless of political affiliation, you have the opportunity to be someone, just like the possibility of being someone else's NGO, but today there have been some very important NGOs called more political. In short, there is no real argument why the Youth Council of Slovenia cannot be part of this story, part of this law on NGOs. It is not a question of systemicity, because this is what the Legislative and Legal Service has told you, as it is, it is not a political problem, because, as the Secretary of State said, we have accepted a compromise at the local level – I call it a rotten compromise – and it is not a financial issue. So there is no argument of substance, except that some politicians who have never been part of youth stories explain to me what you know. I know very much! I was with not only the local youth council, the state youth council, the student organisation, but I helped two other societies to establish themselves, and I was president of one. And someone tells me he's the only one who's a landlady, and the other one, keep quiet, and I won't allow that at all, respectable! I will not say that we should talk about youthful councils to those who were members — no, we can talk. I appeal to this city today as someone who, after some international figures a month ago, has lost the status of a young Member because I am over 40 years old, I appeal in the spirit of this intergenerational cooperation primarily to the Desus Group, that if we have NGOs in the field of older people, we also give the Youth Council the opportunity to be part of this law, and therefore support this amendment. To give the Youth World something that belongs to them because they belong to the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u53	Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Actually, I'm checking in for a reason because I'd like to explain one more by the Ministry. I will not respond to this rather heated debate, which I certainly consider to be well-intentioned, and I think there is nothing wrong with talking as we do. Not at all! I have always believed that it is the Youth Councils Act that in some ways defines the role and importance and also the potential for the development of members of this youth council, in fact, as something more important than just a non-governmental organisation. This is something that we can weigh, more important or not, but certainly the law itself speaks of this status. The Secretary of State explained that we are maintaining this status and that they also maintain certain statuses relating to NGOs within the Youth Council. Now, from a procedural point of view, I do not know whether it is possible to adopt such an amendment at this time, but if we have written in the law that it is not organised; therefore, if a non-governmental organisation is not organised as a political party, church or other religious community, union or chamber, it may be independent of state authorities, political parties or economic operators. It is for these reasons that I now ask whether we can accept such an amendment at all. On the other hand, as I have already said, I believe that some of the status of the Youth Council is somehow above the status of a non-governmental organisation. Now, if it is not funding, funding under the Youth Councils Act is defined as some kind of stable funding, because it comes from an integrated budget, from the budget of local communities on the basis of the programmes, memberships and so on – as we know the law. Thus, this explanation may need to be added before we decide on the amendment itself. I am merely of the opinion that these conditions for compliance under the law and for all these reasons, which I am aware of, are not for this amendment to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u55	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nitz Brezovar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Member, in fact, I can only say that you find it perfectly correct. The Youth Council of Slovenia, despite this law or even if the proposed amendment is not adopted, is in some way already in a privileged position, precisely because of the importance of the youth theme in the Republic of Slovenia. As I mentioned before only one case, we will talk later about some of the funds that will be shared for NGOs on the basis of calls for proposals. Here I have already mentioned, here are the youth councils or the Youth Council is entitled to direct budgetary funding under the programme. So we're not even talking about public procurement. As I mentioned earlier, two marriages, two special laws are regulating it precisely because of the importance of the subject matter. Once again, we are talking only about the status of the Youth Council's umbrella organisation, where the twelve members and, as already mentioned, some of the political underages or underage political parties have been mentioned. If we allow this solution to give them the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest under this law, I can only say that the solution would be completely non-systematic and contrary to the fundamental principle of the non-political functioning of NGOs. However, as I have already mentioned, the Youth Council of Slovenia itself has a status in the public interest on the basis of its law. Also, the members, probably all eight of those out of the 12 who are not underage, will gain the status of a non-governmental organisation in the public interest under this law; for example, the Mountain Union, the Union of Slovenian Rural Youth. We believe that the current solution we are proposing is systemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u57	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u58	I listened well to your explanation, and if I could say that from this point of view, I understand your reasons why we cannot place the Youth Council of Slovenia among NGOs, but I do not understand this logic, but at the local level it is possible if political parties do not prevail. Well, there's some illogicality here that I just can't explain. On the other hand, I know how difficult it is to win young people over for political action or for some organised activity, and it seems to me that it is already commendable if they are willing to participate either in a political youth or in another organisation. Of course, they have a lot of interests, a lot of work, a lot of offers, but we always find that we have a party democracy, on the other hand, there is some rejection of politics, and on the third hand, we know that if we want to preserve democracy, we need political parties and we need young people who will be active in this area. That is why I cannot understand why this amendment of ours would be so controversial, but it can still level the local and state levels. In many cases this is true, for example, when adopting budgets or budgets have the same legality at local and national level, so they feel that it should be comparable here, or that the youth world should have the same status both at local and national level. If it is already a safeguard in that these political springs should not be dominant, then I think there is also a degree of nonpoliticalism — on the one hand. On the other hand, if there are more political parties, then this organisation cannot be influenced by just one party, if we say so, but must in itself provide some greater plurality because it does not advocate or represent just one political party. Of course, I will support this amendment because I think it makes sense or I don't feel so bad if the Youth Council of Slovenia is also included among NGOs.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u59	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nitz Brezovar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u60	Thank you, President. Just a brief explanation. It has already been mentioned that as far as youth worlds are concerned at local level, this was a matter of compromise. We have sat with the youth councils on several occasions, also with the umbrella youth council, which, as I have already mentioned, has a special status established by law, being alone, while youth councils can be at local level more. Of course, because we also want to support the work of young people in the local environment, we finally found that this compromise would make sense, but on condition that these local youth councils meet all the conditions set out in Articles 2 and 5 of the bill. I will say this, and it has also been agreed with him to see the solution in withdrawing as founders where the founders of the political parties were. All this can be arranged. This was also a compromise, as I said, in multiple coordinations where we have all seen the possibility of a suitable solution in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u61	I ask, there is still some interest in discussing these articles. No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Since the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 27, 35 and 38 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 27, 35 and 38 and the three amendments of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Finally, I am putting to the debate also Article 29 and the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD sent groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 15th item of the agenda. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the tonnage tax law after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u62	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you, as has already been said, a bill amending and supplementing the applicable Tonage Tax Act. The original version of the Tonage Tax Act was adopted in 2007 and introduced an alternative form of establishing the tax base for the payment of corporate income tax for a specific group of debtors. These are legal persons who operate with ships on international voyages and have thus also been given this opportunity to choose: either to charge and pay taxes flat-rately – according to the net tonnage of the ship and the number of days of operation of the ship, and then to multiply this by the general rate of corporate income tax – or in the way that it is usually for the remaining companies or legal persons. The tax fixed on the basis of the tonnage of ships shall be considered State aid. In order to allow this to happen, solutions must be designed in accordance with specific rules, in particular the Community Guidelines on State aid for maritime transport. The scheme was first notified and then approved for the period from 1 January 2008 onwards and also expires this year. Given that the scheme is known by virtually all EU Member States, including land, and the trend shows that the countries to which the schemes expire are also extending it, and at the same time the objectives of the scheme also apply in the future, we have decided to extend the scheme. The Ministry of Finance has already joined in extending the scheme. The existing Tonage Tax Act also provides, inter alia, that revenues from the sale of ships included in the Tonage Tax Scheme shall be spent within 5 years of the sale for the purchase of one or more ships or shipping companies or the share of a shipping company. Otherwise, after the expiry of this period, it must include them in the calculation of the corporate income tax. With a view to clarity and transparency of the calculation of revenues from ship sales, the proposal of the law provides for a solution which accurately provides for the calculation of revenues from ship sales which are included in the calculation of corporate income tax if the reinvestment condition is not met. It is therefore a formula when the tax base is calculated in a way that deducts the purchase value of the ship and depreciation from the sales value of the ship. Although the vast majority of competing countries do not know the conditions of reinvestment and, at the same time, the industry's initiative to abolish the condition of reinvestment, we have decided at the Ministry of Finance to maintain the condition, but to upgrade it in a manner that we assess is appropriate. In the context of the continuation of the meeting of the Finance Committee, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made a comment in connection with the possibility of implementing the revised provisions on reinvestment in practice. In this regard, you have tabled an amendment by the coalition Members explaining how the amendments contained in the bill are included in the tax bill. The Ministry of Finance also supports the proposed amendment of the coalition. Let me conclude by concluding that the proposed solutions follow the purposes and objectives of the law, which pursues the promotion of safe, efficient and environmentally friendly maritime transport and its competitiveness on the global market, taking into account Community guidelines in State aid for maritime transport and, of course, the country's maritime orientations. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be supported, as previously mentioned, as well as an amendment to the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mrs Urški Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u64	Thank you so much for the word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 46th session. 1. when the point was interrupted and at the 48th meeting. 3. 2018 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tonnage Tax Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the review of the amendments tabled. On the basis of a letter from the Committee sent to the Commission dated 22. 1. 2018 The Committee also received explanations from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Investigation Office, comments from the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the reply from the Ministry of Justice and explanations from the Ministry of Finance, the response of the National Investigation Office, the comments of the General Navigation to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act and the explanations made at the 48th session of the Finance Committee for the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups on Article 1 and by Mr Janko Weber on Article 5 and Article 5a of the bill. Meeting of the Committee on 11. 1. 2018 were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the State Council and Mr Marko Mencin and Mr Peter Mahnič. At its 6th meeting, 3. 2018 was invited and also attended by Mr Borut Grgič, Vice-President of the General Navigation Supervisory Board. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and solutions of the draft law and said that there had been an alternative approach since 2008 to determining the tax base for the assessment of corporate income tax, and said that the law currently allows the tax to be paid on a flat-rate basis, depending on the net tonnage of the ship and the number of days of operation of the ship. The tonnage tax scheme is considered to be State aid granted and this option has been used by virtually all European Union countries. He then presented a proposal for a new law, where the purpose and purpose of the law remain the same as in the existing law, since after ten years the State aid scheme should be extended or notified to the European Commission. He also provided further clarifications on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, raised two issues, namely the legal nature of the tax, which was addressed by the proposed amendments of the coalition groups of Members, and the question of the return of the proposed legal solutions. The representative of the Council of State took the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which does not support the proposed law. In the introductions, the situation was also presented by representatives of the interested public who provided explanations as to why they did not undermine the proposal. In addition, at the meeting below, the Vice-President of the General Navigation Board presented the current situation in the shipbuilding sector in Slovenia and in the world and stressed their commitment to exempt the obligation to reinvest in the draft law. Various opinions were presented in the debate, as some members of the draft law do not support, as they do not support 6 million valuable tax exemptions. On the contrary, some members expressed support for the bill. At the end of the discussion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the implementing provision and, at the same time, pointed out the deadline for the tax settlement. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance said that the Government would prepare written explanations on the implementation provision by the meeting of the National Assembly. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 1 and adopted it and the amendment of Mr Janko Vebra to Article 5 and the new Article 5a was not adopted by the Committee. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Ferruga will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and everyone else! With regard to the Tonage Tax Act, it should be said that this is aid for maritime transport recommended by the European Union for shipowners in addition to other aid and that they introduce a specific form of taxation. That's the tonage tax. This enables European shipowners to have a more competitive position. The European Commission has treated such a form of taxation as State aid and allows it under specific conditions. The aim of such taxation is to promote safe, efficient and environmentally friendly maritime transport, to encourage the re-entry of ships into the Member States' register, to contribute to the integration of the maritime economy in the Member States and, at the same time, to preserve the competitiveness of ships and to develop maritime knowledge and to promote the employment of European seafarers. Today, we are considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act, which amends the existing law adopted in 2007 and sets out state aid schemes at the tonnage tax. This State aid scheme was notified and also approved by the European Commission for the period from 1 January 2008. The approval of such State aid shall be granted for 10 years as a rule. After a period of time, the scheme should be renewed or notified to the European Commission again, which means that the European Commission should be informed of any legal basis or decisions defining the State aid scheme. For this reason, the proposed solutions to the law determining the manner in which the proceeds from the sale of the ship are incorporated, if the conditions of reinvestment under the tonnage tax scheme are not met, into the system of determining the tax base of the corporate income tax. Such revenue shall be included as a positive difference between the sale value of the ship and the purchase value of the ship reduced by the date of sale of the accrued depreciation, the minimum annual depreciation rate for the purposes of this calculation being at least 4 % of the purchase value. This builds on the existing provision of the Tonage Tax Act as it provides for a financial calculation of the revenues from ship sales. At the same time, it is also provided that this Decision applies to ships whose revenues would normally be included in the corporate tax base system if the time-limit for reinvesting and taking into account the individual ship was not met for the tax period 2017 or later. In the SMC Group, we believe that without extending the state aid scheme from tonage tax, the long-term efforts are being made to develop the Cyprus port of cargo, nautical tourism and lack of own resources with maritime knowledge and experience. By not allowing future seafarers to gain the necessary experience on board the ship, the existence of education, training of future seafarers in the Republic of Slovenia and without young seafarers could not be guaranteed and maintained by the maritime industries. Experienced seafarers are key personnel in carrying out the tasks of the Maritime Inspection and carrying out the control of the safety of navigation along the Slovenian Sea and ensuring the safe operation of the Koper port of cargo. We also believe that the proposed amendments to the Tonnage Tax Act mean that the existing shipowner is tax equivalent to other European ships. We are also working on the fact that the proposal for a law and a state aid scheme will be a sufficient incentive to bring new ships to Slovenia or to stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that these amendments to the tax law governing shipbuilding in our country on tonnage tax do not in fact mean such key changes as to make it dependent on the whole maritime activity in the country. In Slovenia, we have one shipowner and the influence of this boater is very evident in this law. For this reason, there is a great deal of question about the transparency of the changes themselves and of the benefits to which it actually goes. We also see in the Slovenian Democratic Party the objectives of the Government when it speaks of whether this law will not be passed or whether this law is intended primarily to prevent this shipowner from going to a more favourable country if I quote the text of government law. In other words, this means or at least the question is whether the government has worked under certain pressure in this case. Some of these pressures were also felt at the meetings of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. There had to be two sessions because this point was interrupted in the first part due to a number of open issues. The Council of State opposes this change of law and also some professional public if we can call it that. Because of this, once again, this change of law is not crucial to Slovenian maritime affairs, but it may be crucial or very important for one Slovenian shipowner, the only one actually in Slovenia. Nor is it crucial for Slovenia to be in a more favourable position in Europe with the sea and shipbuilding itself. Certainly not. It also has some substantive areas that are unclear, and may clarify themselves with amendments, but I don't know if it's final. Thus, the fundamental question is that the law will apply backwards and in return it will actually allow this shipowner not to pay the corporate tax. It is said that this is a financial impact which the Government does not mention in the law itself, because it only mentions revenue there, but this is going to be the fallout mentioned in the above six million euros. Which means we're going to give someone a vacation, which is why someone else is going to have to pay that money in the state budget. It's always going into public finances so someone has to pay if it's not for this boat, someone else will pay. This is why we cannot support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And the second substantive issue is the tax bill itself, how it will be carried out, and if it will be carried out mainly for 2017 and 2018, which is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. For the reasons I have said here, we will not support that law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law amending the Tonage Tax Act. The proposal for a novelty failed to put an end to the legislative process as originally planned under tax legislation. It was complicated by opposition from the public concerned and the comments also required a heated discussion at the meeting of the home working body. The findings relate mainly to the exemption of tax liabilities, the question of retroactivity, the deletion of an article which provides for the condition of reinvestment of purchases from ship sales and the like. In the end, we have only witnessed political and personal accounting and the transfer of responsibility to each other, and this has lost sight of the proposed solutions, namely, the extension of the State aid scheme or the notification to the European Commission. The main purpose of the novel is therefore not to change the current regime in a way that radically changes the practice so far. It is more towards upgrading existing arrangements. This means that everything will apply as before, only that we have more clearly defined the terms and have included a provision regarding the positive difference in the cases where ship sales occur. In the Desus Group, we have no reservations about the proposed solutions and we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The tax on tonnage is a special form of tax which is used worldwide to tax the profits of companies in a specific sector, such as shipping. In view of the specificities of the business and the sharp global competition, many countries, with various measures and special taxes, are also setting up state aid schemes to ensure that maritime companies, their ships, seafarers and profits remain in their home country or in their own country. Slovenia, as a coastal country, is also in interest and has also introduced a special treatment of the business and taxation of shipping carriers. The applicable Tonage Tax Act has been in force since 2008 and has been declared State aid to the European Commission by the end of the year. The current regime follows the principle that the total tonnage of its fleet is taxed instead of the profits of the ship’s company. Another important principle is that profits from the possible sale of ships must be reinvested. The purpose of the law is to encourage shipping operators not to reduce their transport capacity and replace the ships sold with new and more efficient ones. It turns out that the law in force, despite its good intentions, has some concrete, practical shortcomings. Its specific provisions, the identification of the tax base and the obligation to reinvest in profits can be understood in a somewhat ambiguous way and specific tax obligations also differ in different interpretations. The proposal for amendments and the completion of the Tonage Tax Act introduces provisions that clearly set the objectives, purpose and method of determining the tax base. However, this does not depart from the current principle that shipowners must reinvest in the new fleet capacity registered in the Republic of Slovenia if they are to reduce the fleet. They will be able to do so within the ten-year period of validity of this Act, of course if it is adopted, allowing the shipowners sufficient flexibility to respond to market conditions. The generated profits, which the shipowners will not use to rebuild and expand their fleet, will be taxed in accordance with the corporate income tax or the same as in the business of all other companies in our Slovenia. The debate on this law and unfortunately coalition coordination were relatively long. There have been serious accusations that the largest Slovenian shipping company is abusing the applicable state aid scheme for tonnage tax. As a result of the comments made, the competent committee of the National Assembly even decided to terminate the examination of the law and requested the opinion of the competent institutions, the financial administration, the specialised prosecutor's office and the NPU and the police. They have indicated in their replies that these suspicions have been investigated and that irregularities have not been identified in the investigation and judicial proceedings, and therefore we believe that it is appropriate to close this law as soon as possible so that its effects can be applied in practice. From everything mentioned in the Social Democrats Group, we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Vice President. It is clear that all Slovenian governments are consciously acting in the interests of capital and its owners. Why? Even in 2006, the company profit tax was 25%, and today it is only 19%. Even in 2006 capital income was taxed together with income from work, now separated from labour income and significantly lower than income from work. The pensioner, who received a few shares at the time of ownership, pays the same tax as on the other hand a pidov baron. Even though the Slovenian governments are consciously acting in the interest of capital, it is very rare for Members to adopt a law that reduces the tax on one foreign capitalist himself, even if it does not. We all probably remember the Vaskrsić case, the court sold his house for less than 200 euros in debt. Well, to German capitalist Peter Döhle this simply cannot happen, the Mira Cerar coalition will delete EUR 6.4 million in tax debt at today's meeting, in return. This is the whole content of this proposal and whatever else they will explain is simply not true. General sailing or its owner, Peter Döhle, has taken advantage of the opportunity in the past, as we have heard today, that he is not paying a profit tax, but a so-called tonnage tax, which is, of course, significantly lower. That's why she paid only about 50,000 euros a year. The only condition for this great tax relief was that the General Sailing does not sell ships at that time or sell them, and the money must be invested in the purchase of new vessels. The general voyage did not do so by the end of last year, so this year it should pay 6.4 million euros in tax. This will obviously not happen because of the government's intervention and the Mira Cerar coalition. After the financial committee first blocked this proposal in January, lobbyists apparently activated. We were able to read in the newspaper that we were supposed to help our shipowner with this law and that this law would help to keep Slovenia a maritime state. I'm sorry, but it's nothing but a bluff. Since the Janša government privatized the General Navigation, the General Navigation of Slovenia has been only and only by name, and in fact the General Navigation is a German private company. Pika. There's nothing else. Daughters of General Navigation are registered in tax havens. One in Liberia, one in the Marshall Islands. The Director of General Navigation has not been a Slovenian citizen for some time now, but he is now a German owner, Mr Döhle, and at the administration in Portorož there are, I think, approximately 37 people employed, otherwise more than three quarters of the crew on ships of the General Navigation of Foreigners. The ships bear Slovenian names, but are registered abroad and the General Sailing today is no more Slovenian or Magna Steyr in Slivnica will be more Slovenian than the General Sailing. Lobbyists of the General Navigation or its German owner will of course claim that paying a tax of EUR 6.4 million would sink the General Navigation or force Döhl to move the company’s seat from Slovenia, which is another additional absurdity. The assets managed by Mr Döhle's business group are estimated at $8 billion. I do not know how this EUR 6.4 million tax debt could sink the subsidiary of this company, whose assets are worth at least a thousand times more, but I do know that it is extremely unfair for citizens to require unconditional tax discipline and for foreign capital to be written down literally. We're not going to agree to this in Levica, and we're going to go against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 19 March. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u76	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The amendment that is on the table today can certainly be regarded as an amendment that is contrary to the Constitution, since it is a matter of applying the laws in return, and you can only use it when it comes to public interest. If we look at what is going on with the General Navigation, the General Navigation is one of the first companies to be sold to a foreigner. A Slovenian company sold to a foreigner. Today we can follow the sad image of this company, which practically sold out the entire fleet. The commitment to this State aid, which was granted almost ten years ago, was that for each ship sold it would invest in the purchase of a new ship, but this did not happen. The fleet was practically sold out. Since this was not the case, this State aid is also illegal and all these sales and non-investment in new ships between 2013 and 2017, not least the tax debt from 2017 amounting to EUR 6 million 350 000 and EUR 8 million from 2013 to 2017 represent a good EUR 14 million of unjustified state aid. Last but not least, because it is a matter of paying tax in the budget, it is a matter of damaging the state budget by €14 million. Now I ask whether it is really in the public interest that a foreign shipowner does not pay taxes in Slovenia. Last but not least, it has a seat in a tax oasis and we are actually rewarding someone who is established in Liberia. Is that a public interest? The Constitution, as far as I know, does not know the public interest in this regard, as well as the Ministry of Finance would be pleased to explain to me why it is in the public interest in Slovenia to write back taxes on someone operating from the tax haven. Since when is this our public interest? Since this is a tax debt waiver, look at the comparison. Here we're talking about $14 million right now, but if we're talking about a defense that sells a nickel without an account, he's got gunmen right behind his door who actually come armed and ask what's wrong with that account. Or at a bone sale. For these amounts, action shall be taken immediately, and for the amount of 14 million, a person established in the tax haven shall be rewarded with debt write-off. Excuse me, this is really far from what the President of the Government, who has resigned today, has been saying, that he is working in the interest of the state to work in the interest of people to respect the rule of law. This law is proof that the rule of law in Slovenia is not respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Christmas, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. You mentioned that this bill, if adopted, would write off the tax debt. In order for the tax debt to be deducted, this should first be created. Tax debt didn't come and it doesn't exist. When this thing was being prepared, the real proposal of the law was somehow taken by the association, as well as by the boatmaster, an initiative in which they argued that they did not have such a condition when compared to other Member States of the European Union, which had more or less all of this scheme implemented on their own. That's partly true. There are two other countries, and it must also be stressed that their concept is not conceived or that it does not allow for such broad interpretation or interpretation as we have brought it in or brought into law by the legislators at that time in 2007. From here on, it was the Ministry of Finance's interest to ensure that the condition of reinvestment remains, in a way that would pursue those goals that we, too, have set ourselves as a country. So if we're looking at a maritime state, we also have a large share of this chain with us, so we have a midmarine, we have a faculty for maritime transport, we have a Luka Koper, we have a lot of freighters living on it, we have a lot of carriers and, finally, a boater. Shipowners who have long-ships actually have the opportunity to register anywhere in the world. This has not been invented by us or has been so perceived, it is said otherwise to be uncontrollable, including by the European Commission, which, more than 10 years ago, gave the possibility for countries to opt for an alternative mode of taxation. It is precisely because at least part of the fleet will remain within the European Union or the European Economic Area and thus hold hands, knowledge and competitive advantages within its premises. This is where we used it as a country. I think it would be good for us to have another shipping company at some point in time, but the fact that they have the most competitive tax systems or models here is certainly one of the Greeks. These countries are about 5, 6, and certainly the vast majority have a slightly more favourable regime than we have. It is our interest that we somehow approach this or at least have as many comparable conditions as we have in order not to push those who choose to start or work in this sector into the account of certain solutions that may or may not be clear, as in this case, or are consequently uncompetitive for this reason. That is why we decided to go into this legal change. As regards any unlawful State aid, each year it shall be verified through the payment of the accounts by checking the compliance of the shipowner. If he doesn't meet them, he'll fall out of the scheme. Similarly, it is being assessed, now that the period of the first scheme has passed, how the eligibility for such aid has been from other aspects. Here, too, it will certainly be possible to take a look at this and see if there may have been any infringements and if the taxable person should proceed or settle taxes in a different way. As for the other things that have been said here, I would reiterate that the scheme that we have will not be more favourable than what is in other countries, it will only be comparable to what it provides for some level of competitiveness. As far as these obligations are concerned, obligations have not yet been made or reached, so it is difficult to talk about the numbers you are mentioning. However, the fact is that the system is set up in such a way that this change will certainly lead to obligations. What she is, and I can hardly tell you, is what the boatman knows. When we look at the design, how it was designed, the solution provided for in the law is also designed to prevent possible abuses. There was also one question on the committee, which was in this direction, that if, through some abuse or misapplication of amortisation, this rule could be eliminated. And we have already explained that the rule is set up in such a way that it is not possible to manipulate depreciation rates to lead to a tax obligation being lower than the one envisaged in the calculation, it is said in the formula. We have been paying attention to these matters, and I think they will also achieve their goal, because even in the course of the discussions, when the law was being drafted, we have had to consider that this is a sector where there are extremely large fluctuations, which is said to be in terms of driving prices, shipping prices and so on, at the same time, it is not necessary to follow fluctuations as in economic cycles, it is said that they are directly linked to economic growth, which means that times, say periods of depression or recession, may be longer than normally occurring during the cycle. This is precisely because the construction of ships and the order of ships is said to reach major delays, including five and ten years, from the time you order the ship to the market. At present, there is still an excessive capacity on the market for ships, which will continue for some time. The solution that we have foreseen goes in this direction to keep the shipowners on a long-term basis in the country, and that is to say, if there is a speculative sale, it is the sale of ships when the price of ships is high, which could suggest that, for example, the shipowner intends to leave the country, it is indirectly punished by paying a price difference, saying that the price difference is taxed and paid in the state budget. However, in the event of an extension of the recession where ships are sold under pressure for liquidity reasons, in this case we have also assessed that it is not reasonable for us to work against the market or against business decisions in this regard. The penalty remains, therefore, a condition of reinvestment, but it takes hold when an indica appears or a desire is made to leave the country by someone comparable or such a shipowner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u79	Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I responded to Secretary of State Christmas's words, to everything he's actually said right now. We can speak in accounting terms and say that there is simply no tax debt in the accounting sense, okay. What colleague Weber said can then be done. This is tax exemptions, and this is not an accounting category, Mr Bozič. In other words, you can't hide under the accounting category now. Tell me how much the tax would pay for the general voyage if it wasn't for this law. You said earlier that there were no calculations, that they could not be made or done in any way. We should have made them! The state treasury will result in less tax, simply put, without the accounting terminology in which we can talk, and then abolish the Member here because it is a terminology, some spelling and so on, although you probably know what it is about, because we have already talked about this on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Tell me how much less money the country will get. How much do you estimate? If you can't say it correctly, at least make an assessment. And why go back 10 years? I see you've got a lot of data, probably taught you how to build a ship, how much time to build, and what does that mean, there's going to be a recession – what would happen in this case, and what difference does it make? Slovenia cannot compete in the competitiveness of business, but the primitive environment, if you want, can be competitive in Liberia. Because in Liberia, most of these ships are registered. You can't compete with Liberia because you're on another continent. There may always be a ship to Liberia — and there may be registered ships, there may be another country, you know, you may have been taught what countries are now the ones those ships might go to. We have one shipman. There's a shipman in this country. Everything else, how it affects Luke Koper, the marinas and so on, it's a bluff. It's a bluff! That's why you're not going to change this law. You're going to change this law because of one shipman. That is, of course, to be said. And you'll never be competitive. Slovenia, I say, will never be maritimely competitive in any country where all these ships are registered. I gave the example of Liberia, not Greece, because Greece has a historically conditioned shipbuilding, it has written about shipping in the Constitution, it is written in the Greek Constitution. That's why this fog mix is now, what we're doing, a little bit out of the vine. And you say, somewhere else, the boater will register this. See, every man, every Slovenian can register the company where he wants it, not just the boatman, so this is not an argument when you speak, but “then the shipowners will go elsewhere”. Anyone can register it. These are arguments that are actually here – see, these are not professional arguments, these may be arguments that have been told you how you will defend this law with which arguments. But they're not that. And now you're selling them here as government arguments. [[…]] You must be aware that these are government arguments, not personal arguments. You simply tell us how much tax this shipman will not pay here and how much other taxpayers will have to pay. How much of this is going to make the country lose? Let's say how many Slovenians are employed by this shipman and how many foreigners, say Filipinos or, I don't know, who. They're all the same here. I don't think that's a bad thing. But tell me how much it is then. Because we're talking about one. From this point of view, as I have already said, this law is for the benefit of one shipman. Nothing is good for all Slovenes and Slovenes. Once again, tell us how many Slovenian shipowners are employed by this shipowner, of all others. Even so, seafarers have a special solution regarding income payments and so on in the Income Act, so there is also leave if you want. You know, if someone says there's gonna be less tax here, then there's gonna be less tax. And you yourself know this because this government, the government of Mira Cerar, gives a special position to one taxpayer. He can do that, but then tell him to do it because of one taxpayer, not then give it to the cellophane, but tell him how the seafaring is going to develop and so on and so forth. Yeah, but they probably told you, "We're moving out of Portorož," you're probably working under this influence. I don't know. You can deny that that's not true. But let's get some fresh wine on this term. Don't bluff us, respectable government.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I think it is unacceptable for the Secretary of State to say that he does not know what tax obligation this is. For almost 10 years, this state aid has been implemented, we get a law in the National Assembly, which accounts for €6 million and €350,000 in tax liabilities for 2017, but we do not know what tax obligations are. I have made an amendment with the content to revise the implementation of this State aid. The Court of Auditors may do so without additional costs. The amendment was rejected. What audits have been carried out so far to be able to talk about the tax liability and who has carried out these audits? Did the Ministry of Finance order this audit and to whom?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u84	As far as the government is concerned, I know that this is now a very popular topic and it is interesting to draw parallels, but I still have to explain the following thing. The proposal to amend this law was prepared together with other amendments that have already been made through this National Assembly, both the Income Act and the Tax Procedure Act, for example, and this package was somehow envisaged to be the case, and then there was a situation that took some time for it to arrive on the agenda. The government has adopted the bill under full authority, placed it in the National Assembly and is now in your hands. Thus, when the government adopted this position, it had full powers to give to the National Assembly what you would decide, but it is your word that you are the legislative body. As regards the audits carried out, reports and so on, the meeting of the Finance Committee was suspended precisely for the purpose of obtaining additional information. As I know, additional information came from all those in whom you also asked for it, it is said from the Ministry of Finance, from the Financial Administration as well as probably from the NPU, the Prosecutor's Office and so on, because at the time of the meeting there was a variety of information, various doubts, not least I think that there were some 25 proceedings in the courts concerning a particular company, for which, as I have obtained information, we have checked, in no case has it turned out that something has been done wrong. As a result, we have not been able to take further information into account when deciding what to do. What was then said is that anyone can register where they want, this is not entirely true. There are those societies that can be more easily found anywhere on the world map, and they are the ones that are harder. Someone who has an activity does not know if he is a craftsman working in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, or an undertaking working in the territory of the European Union that is their home market, is significantly easier to appear in another country than a company whose majority of the assets are floating in international waters. You said that the fact that Slovenia will never be as competitive as any Liberia or anything like that – competitiveness is seen in a broader sense – surely tax competitiveness is just one of the competitivenesss you have on the table. In Slovenia, there is a skilled workforce working in this regard, and I assume that we want to see whether this or any other shipowner in this area will benefit or continue to work and contribute to our GDP, income, social contributions and so on. I believe that we may not always be the best in this competition, but we do have other legal solutions, which I think are also important in terms of competitiveness, from legal certainty forward. I would add one more thing here because you said about Greece – it is still true that in the European Union's area they are doing their best to ensure that there are the same playing field conditions for everyone. In the case of Greece, which you are just mentioning, it has also been prepared to renovate its scheme because it is more generous than the guidelines provide. This is not the only country that will have to adapt its legislation. In our case, our legislation is consistent, it is said, we are not going beyond what is healthy, but in that group of countries that are possibly less competitive in terms of taxes at least. But that doesn't mean it's not worth doing business in this country, which also proves that other foreign investments are coming here, but as far as shipping is concerned, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u86	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like to recall that I have not received an answer regarding the audits carried out and why it is not allowed for the Court of Auditors to do this audit and then it comes with relevant data out, and at least we know what is then accepted or rejected. Because I'm going to reject this law myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u88	I'm sorry. With regard to the audits carried out, the Court of Auditors may verify this, but in my opinion there are no restrictions. However, as far as verification by the Ministry of Finance is concerned, we have one aspect concerning the Financial Administration, and this must certainly be checked, part of which has already been reported to you, and from here on these audits will certainly be carried out, which is not least required by the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I have not received an answer as to how much of this tax is now being paid by other taxpayers or paid by other taxpayers under this law. What's the Ministry of Finance's assessment? Six million, but that's for one year. How old is it in ten years?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u92	Mr Secretary, look, you admit that you have not done any audits, but you will come to Parliament with a law where you comply with a tax obligation. I'm not serious. That's not really how it works. We'd expect an audit first.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, please, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u94	With regard to the audits, as has already been said, you have received from the Financial Administration a report on how much has now been seen and in which cases it is seen. However, as far as the continuation is concerned, things will also be further examined, but the calculation must first be made as the accounting model of the tax is envisaged. That's one thing. The second thing about the impact, the first proposal you prepared at the time and also accompanied it to the National Assembly, predicted some effects which were then also subsequently announced, as I know, to the European Commission, that they would not be what you originally predicted because they were significantly higher. At that time, this was also communicated to the European Commission; the volume of State aid was regularly reported. As far as this difference or possible effect is concerned, at this point it is difficult to tell you. I have told you what the purpose was and what the goals of this law were, and, as we say, I think that after a thorough reflection we have brought a solution to the National Assembly, which is the best possible option of what was on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here this law speaks of the fact that there will be no need for additional budgetary resources for this law under point 4 and under 3: “The law will have no effect on the state budget or other public funds.” However, the Secretary of State said he did not know how much, but significantly less money, which in other words means that the impact on public funds is not going to be. I find that, formally and naturally, this document, which the Government has sent to the National Assembly, is, in fact, unrealistic. The Secretary of State has now said that this will make some money less, that we sent it once, that it is different now and so on. I didn't understand him here exactly what he was going to say, and he didn't say any years and so on, but it did happen once, and then the European Commission wasn't happy and I don't know what. In short, it's unclear. But we say all the time that this law will have an impact on public finances in that the tax or money will not come into the budget, but, according to the local word, which should come, it will not be because this is a tax exemption. I think it is simply necessary that these facts, what the Secretary of State has said, are now upon us this law, that we have it here, that we decide on it, take it into account. Someone else will pay this tax instead of this shipman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u98	You're very skilled at words, given everything, even on the internship, and so on it's kind of, I think so, even logically. What I said earlier about the fact that you said that I was involved is that when the scheme is notified, it is also an assessment of how much State aid is expected to be. I just wanted to say what you also know very well that when you notified and assessed how much this State aid was supposed to amount to, what was the difference between the Tonage Tax Act and what the Law provides for the corporate income tax, there was a significant difference in estimates and it subsequently turned out to be more. The second thing I wanted to say about this in terms of not having any effects, I have to say one thing, about notifying the scheme is always in the package also what objectives are being pursued. [[…]] These are employment, ship practice, fleet size and so on. Therefore, these objectives are being pursued, which are always notified in the scheme, because the fact is that this law, without a notified and approved scheme, cannot work because it would be against the regulation envisaged by the European Commission. And, as we say, we have already begun the process of notifying this scheme further. As far as expenditure that is not supposed to be foreseen is concerned, expenditure is not foreseen because of this solution, and you know it. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I thank and conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on gambling. The draft law was tabled by Mr Branko Zorman. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Brank Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State, citizens and citizens, and the last-ever-appreciated Slovenian sport! This novel of the Law on gambling is intended primarily for Slovenian sport, Slovenian disabled people, Slovenian humanitarianists, and, last but not least, it will have quite some Slovenian budget and is intended to protect Slovenian players from bets that play today in foreign organisers. What were the reasons for this novel? Every year, Members of the National Assembly, at the time of the adoption of the annual reports of both foundations, both the Foundations for the Financing of Sports Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, listen to calls for their permanent funding to fall each year, their funding to fall, and call on the State to take action and do something. In particular, they are subject to concession fees, which are their main source of funding and then they are shared among sports, disabled and humanitarian organisations, but within the framework of their membership. They call for new sources of funding to be found. And as will be seen below, these sources of funding are here, just picking them up. The second reason for the adoption or submission of this law is the fact that more than 80% of all Slovenian sports betting players play in foreign operators, mostly from the chair over the Internet, and these foreign organisers, of course, do not pay any concession fees, nor do they pay any taxes. Of these unpaid concession fees, 0 Euros Slovenian sport, 0 Euros Slovenian disabled persons, 0 Euros Slovenian humanitarians and 0 Euros Slovenian budget. At the same time, Slovenian players who play there are unprotected, because they are not under the control of our supervisory authority, this is the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, because these foreign organizers do not have concessions, of course our supervisory authority cannot control them. And the third reason for the introduction of this novel is that Slovenian legislation, which is said to be the Slovenian law on gambling, is not in line with the EU order, which lastly also confirms the judgments of Slovenian courts and the warnings of the European Commission. The situation in the field of classical gambling, where sports bets are now included, is as follows. We have two organizers. Lottery Slovenia organizes classic gambling, lottery games, Sports lottery, d. d., and organizes sports betting. Let me stress, the Sports lottery, d. d., is a private company, the state has a virtually negligible percentage in it. The proposal from the Ministry of Finance regarding the 2015 Gambling Act is practically exactly the same as my novels. In 90% of the text is practically a copypathic proposal from the Ministry of Finance, which also foreseen the opening of the field of sports betting in 2015 and provided for a number of participants in sports betting, which, last but not least, as I said, I propose. In addition, this law is based on experience in comparable countries. Lottery Slovenia shares directly with the law monopoly, where in the field of classical games, we do not have these anomalies that we have in the field of sports betting, and of course the area of sports betting is completely regulated. With this law, concessionaires will also be able to obtain a concession – today they cannot – to start paying concession fees, to start paying taxes, and, last but not least, to be monitored and to the benefit of all Slovenian players. We have received various writings during the adoption of this law, particularly by the Sports Lottery, which, of course, is a monopoly who wants to protect its continued existence as a monopolies, and in this writing she has been deceiving, among other things, that the higher court did not say that the legislation was inconsistent with the EU order, which is not true, of course, they have been deceiving that because of higher quotas, when foreign organisers arrive, there will be fewer resources, of course this is not true, this is complete nonsense and lies, and that it will be a transfer of players from the Sports Lottery to foreign organisers, that is certainly not true, they are already among foreign organisers. I will then give an additional explanation in explanation of vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u102	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 48th session. 3. 2018 as a parent working body, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling, submitted by Mr Branko Zorman to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. To address this point, a proposaler, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Service and additional representatives of the Sports Lottery were invited. In addition to the draft law on this point, the Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a law, the additional explanation by Member Branko Zorman concerning the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, and the reply of the Sports Lottery in response to the document of Member Branko Zorman entitled Reminder – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Gambling. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Parliamentary Branko Zorman has tabled amendments to the individual section of the proposal. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the applicant submitted the basic principles of the bill, such as respect for the international legal order and the judgments of the Slovenian courts, equal treatment of business entities, the rights of all stakeholders and eligibility. The main objective of the law is to systematically regulate and stabilise the financing of the FIHO Foundation and indirectly of FIHO organisations and to align the area of the adaptation of sports betting with the EU acquis and the judgments of Slovenian courts, taking into account modern trends and international arrangements in the field of wage-making. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the proposed amendments by the proposer followed the comments of the service and further clarified the correct, including the proposed amendment to the amendment to the Committee. The representative of the Council of State took the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which does not support the bill. In the opening presentation, the representative of the Sports Lottery presented his views on the proposed legal material and stressed that the bill's proposal was not comprehensive, that it was inaccurate, that it was technically weak and that it was inconsistent, tax and tax-effective, that it did not define risk management measures for gambling and that it did not propose measures to achieve its objectives. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the Ministry, with its prepared proposal for the amendment of the Law on Gambling, wanted to bring the area of gambling more fully into line with the EU acquis and to remove restrictions on the acquisition of the ownership shares of concessionaires and to remove certain unnecessary administrative obstacles, while the proposer wants to regulate only the area of the position with his proposal, which is also why the Government does not support his proposal. The government also considers that the assessment of the financial implications of the proposal for a state budget bill and other public funds is not appropriate. In the debate, some members of the Committee drew attention to the possible negative consequences of the Slovenian sports betting operator's monopoly and to the inadequacy of the business model, especially with regard to trends and developments in the European space. They also highlighted the issue of online gaming control, which is supposed to be ineffective, although this control already has a legal basis. The proposed law and individual members of the committee were also surprised by the almost identical opinion and position of the Ministry of Finance and Sports Lottery on the draft law itself. It should also be noted that the issue of the tax evasion of gambling is adequately addressed by the proposed amendment to the amendment to the Committee, which was also adopted at the meeting of the Committee. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments by Mr Branko Zorman, and then voted on all the articles of the draft law and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u103	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Gorazd Renčel, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government opposes the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling for several reasons. Allow me to introduce them briefly. Firstly, Slovenia needs certain new solutions in the field of gambling as a whole, including in order to comply with EU law. In particular, the requirement for a registered office for companies wishing to obtain a concession for the adaptation of gambling in the Republic of Slovenia should be removed. This requirement is contrary to Article 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. A serious attempt at such a comprehensive approach has been made in the forthcoming mandate, but could not be carried out. This does not mean that it is necessary to agree to the distinctly partial solutions, as proposed, which govern the solely and solely area of the bet. On the contrary, the proposal does not touch on the elimination of administrative barriers to the reduction of the number of regulated professions, nor on the ownership composition of companies which have a concession to organise specific gambling in the casino, and where restrictions on the ownership of these companies should be lifted in order to attract domestic and foreign investors and thus to follow the country’s capital investment management strategy. Secondly, even if they had agreed to the logic of participatory solutions limited only to betting, there are serious doubts that the proposal of the law in its present form would have achieved the basis of the purpose, that is to strengthen the funding of the concession fee foundations. These doubts stem from three main titles. Firstly, the real data on the number of players who play in foreign sports betting providers does not have anyone, nor does the government party, nor does the applicant. With high probability, the power of the assessment on which the proposal is based is to be considered excessive. If indeed 85% of players from Slovenia bet foreign operators for a better offer of bets, there should be more than 400 000. Similarly, estimates of Slovenian players' payments to foreign betting providers are very likely to be exaggerated. If there were really about 200 million of them, as the proponent claims, it would significantly exceed all payments to classical gambling together. Secondly, the proposed regime for the entry of new concessionaires into the market does not necessarily mean an increase in the revenues received by the Foundation in the Republic of Slovenia. New concessionaires would be expected to offer better quotas at the time of legal entry into the market, which means higher profits and payments, which reduces the basis for calculating taxes and concession fees. Thirdly, with the alleged purpose of the proposed regime, this is to open the market, it is very difficult to agree on an extremely high level of commission. With 500 000 euros, Denmark, for example, has passed a 35 000 law at the opening of the market, which the applicant himself mentioned as an example. From the point of view of public finances, we could certainly welcome such a single influx, and the question is how many bidders would opt for such an investment in a legal entry into the two million-dollar market, given the already high tax burden on gambling in Slovenia. In view of all the above, the question is therefore raised as to whether the novelty would even achieve the objectives set in terms of increasing concession fees, even more, a lack of a well-thought-out solution could lead to a situation where one monopolistic operator of online betting would simply replace a new monopoly that would pay the entry fee. From a completely procedural point of view, it should be pointed out that the novelties should be submitted to the European Commission for prior identification. In view of all the above, we propose that you do not support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the positions of the Groups of Members, with the word mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u106	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The work to be done by the Government of Mir Cerar, the coalition of parties to the Modern Centre, the Social Democrats, Desus and the Ministry of Finance was carried out by one of the members of the National Assembly, who proposed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on gambling. Thorough changes and key changes and additions to the Gambling Act open up the betting market in the Republic of Slovenia and the elimination of the monopoly position. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposed amendment to the Gambling Act means positive inflows to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and more money for individual sports clubs. For all of this, we will support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and the amendment to the law on gambling.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman. Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group. The purpose of the novel, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Gambling, was to receive a smooth support despite the surprise of many stakeholders on the Committee of the Mother Labour Body. A few things in a row. The proposed amendment to the Law on Gambling would also be welcomed by the Desus Group if it found that the solutions meant to generate new concession fees for both the FSO and Slovenia sport as a result. In Desus we do not only favour higher transfers for pensioners, for the socially disadvantaged, but also for Slovenian sport, because we believe that Slovenian sport is at the world summit, but in particular we need additional financial incentives, especially for the reason that we are a small nation, a small nation, and therefore we urgently need to devote precisely to sport, and also to recreational, more resources to achieve our results and thus represent Slovenia in the world in the best possible way. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted figures which clearly show that concession fees for FSOs fell strongly only in 2014 after the introduction of the so-called Luck Crisis Tax, which I repeat was an intervention law. Then the funds began to rise again and are now practically at the same level as they were in 2013. So if we believe – and there is no reason not to believe – the Ministry of Finance does not hold that the funds from this title are constantly falling. Some, on the other hand, believe the proposer — which is nothing illegal — who, vehemently, the proposer, claims that the funds are falling, and on national television has even accused colleagues of cutting down on their client lines, some kind of threshold. As regards the so-called non-compliance with the European legal order, the European Commission announced that it was satisfied with the clarifications on the regulation in our betting market and concluded the infringement procedure in December. The result is no violations. Pika. If we look at the perspectives of both sports and humanitarian organisations, of course, we see in our parliamentary group, the Desus Group, the problem in particular, that this so-called or famous Luck Tax Act still applies. The FIHO Council, also one of the key stakeholders, found in its public letter that funding would have to be reduced precisely for this reason because this crisis law is still in force. This seems catastrophic, unacceptable and unsustainable to us in the Desus Group, because, as we know, it is the financing of 27 disabled, 82 humanitarian organisations, all of which are carrying out life-saving social programmes for over 300,000 users. Let me finish. In principle, we are in the Desus Group against any partial, partial, such or other solutions based on poor calculations based on unverified numbers and suggesting some very controversial backgrounds. We are also in the same sleep against reckless, wild liberalisation as we were in the case of the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act. We sincerely hope that in this case, when adopting the amendment of this law, this will not mean a funeral for the financing of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. In short, we are in favour of making informed decisions, adopting good laws and making decisions based on facts and figures, not on insinuations and deceptions. This is because of our concern for the existence and future functioning of non-governmental, humanitarian, sports, disabled and other organisations, and because of our concern for the existence and future functioning of this law, we will renounce the support of the Desus Group with a large majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the marriage proposal before us, the proposer estimates that by implementing this solution the Slovenian bet players could offer a larger range of betting products in order to increase the number of players and consequently the traffic of casinos. It also assesses and substantiates that this would raise more resources than the fees which, following the current regime, we devote most of to the financing of sports, humanitarian and disability organisations in Slovenia. Ambitiously, however, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the bill of these solutions, despite good intentions, may not be achieved. Rather than a good solution, it opens up risk issues and does not address them properly and, of course, instead of addressing key social dilemmas related to this area, it focuses on a potential higher total profit, which would naturally be shared by a higher number of bidders. The main danger that remains is to put at risk the system of financing sport, humanitarian organisations, disability organisations, not to mention the specific other negative impacts on society as a whole. Therefore, of course, this proposal cannot be confirmed. In other words, gambling in most of those countries that allow it is very differently regulated and the strictness of regulation varies between countries. To all the arrangements, including the most repressive ones, it is common that with the regulation of gambling in some way society recognises as such that betting and gambling mainly bring a variety of numbers, and it is difficult to say small, risks to man and society. As experts in this area have explained, greater profits in this sector can only be generated by more players, and this can only be achieved in one way, through more risky products. The high risk increases adrenaline, accelerates the process of acquiring the player, increases the pressure on players in sports events, by making or abandoning certain behaviour in key moments, thus the social consequences of addiction to gambling and the other social consequences of liberalisation in this area are particularly negative. The proposal before us undoubtedly increases the risks and not the other way around, as would be acceptable. Of course, the goal is to make the profit more interesting and more profitable. If this is appropriate at the expense of the people and without adequate safeguards, of course it is also a question for the proposer. Another important question to be asked is whether, even if this type of solution is implemented, players would really decide to make a legal appearance on the Slovenian market, apply for licences and pay taxes on generated transport in Slovenia. Many who do so could have done so by now. Social Democrats, on the other hand, believe in the principle of regulation, by which social risks are limited, especially in such exposed industries. We believe that in such areas we do not need to compete in extremes and that, as a country, we need transparent, stable financing of sport, humanitarian activities and the assistance of people with disabilities, so that if such laws are to be amended, they can be proposed. The procedure for amending and adopting them should be guided by the Government, which includes all stakeholders in this process, not only those who follow their or in this case their partial interest. Of course, the Social Democrats will not support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thanks again, Vice President. Whenever a policy proposes to liberalise something, the public tries to convince the public that it is in the public interest, but it always turns out that liberalisation ultimately benefits exclusively private capital that enters the newly opened market. This also applies to the proposal of Mr Zorman. Comrade Zorman says that after liberalisation, players currently betting abroad would be betting at home, so that Slovenia would collect more fees, but his proposal in no way limits the playing of Slovenians in foreign suppliers. Foreign providers will have no reason or obligation to pay a concession fee in Slovenia because they will be able to continue collecting bets free of charge via foreign websites. Zorman's proposal will not increase Slovenia's budget revenues. Zorman's proposal will only allow Slovenian companies to earn part of the bets currently being realised by the Sports Lottery. I will not embark on the fact that Member Zorman has in the past been in a business relationship with the owners of the company in a relationship that could materially benefit from such a liberalisation of sports betting. Instead, let me remind you of something else. That Zorman's proposal is not the first interest law coming from SMC. In 2016, the coalition adopted a new Act on Pharmacy Activities, which is significantly more favourable to concessionaires than the old law. At first, we didn't understand why the SMC, which promised to limit the profits between doctors, turned concessional pharmacies into profit companies, but the matter quickly became clear. One of the authors of the law was the president of the Miran Golub Pharmacy Chamber, also a SMC candidate at the local elections in Kidrichev and owner of two pharmacies in Styria. It is also interesting that colleague Zorman forgot to include sports betting in the gambling tax in the bill. The authors of the Pharmacy Act also forgot to ban pharmaceutical companies from becoming co-owners of private pharmacies, which we prevented in Levica with our amendment. For these reasons, we will not and cannot support this law in Levica. Also because sports bets are an extremely unproductive social activity. According to the Levice programme, this activity could only be carried out by public companies in order for profits to return to communities instead of privatising. Sports lottery, which currently has the only permit for wagering in Slovenia, is not a public company, but is owned by state companies and sports associations. What Member Zorman calls the elimination of the monopoly is nothing more than the privatisation of a new segment of our society. Zorman's marriage is not the first in this area either. Let us recall that this coalition has even turned a cemetery activity into a business, if I may say so. Finally, let me add that this proposal does not solve two major problems of gambling. The first problem is that gambling gains are undertaxed. In comparison, an employee with an average salary must pay at least 27 % of the income and a pensioner 25% of the dividend tax, and someone who hits on a flight shall pay only 15% of the tax. At the same time, the European Union allows people to serve by playing gambling abroad, but they do not pay any taxes. Therefore, arrangements should be in place as was the case for deposits of foreign nationals in Austria. The country where the gambling organiser is registered must recover a high tax and order part of that tax to the country from which the player comes. Of course, it is highly unlikely that the current President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, as President of the Luxembourg Government, would support this. But these are broader problems. As we say, we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u114	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have a proposal for a law on gambling. Sports betting and problems in sport are present every day and therefore the financing of sport, as well as of disabled organisations, needs to be regulated. Of course, we have a legal and illegal market, official and informal. These markets are governed by legality. The more monopolies, the more people run to other markets where there are no monopolies. The larger the tax and repressive policy, the more people are fleeing to the illegal market. More than repressive measures, there is more on the other side of corruption or violence and threats. What are the countries that have faced this informal economy doing? These countries are based on trying to legalise the informal market, which means that there are no more players or fewer, a certain number, going from the illegal market to the legal market. This is the goal of modern economies – to eliminate illegal and informal markets and the economy. Because they see that corruption risks are already being created in the legal economy within the framework of concessions, monopolies and everything else, and this must be prevented. What's the proposal? It brings more competition, resulting in more people who have been on the illegal market to be on the legal, resulting in more money. Prevent the outflow of players abroad, thus achieving this modern element, that we have control over playing, that we turn those young people from going to the illegal market and that we collect the tax from this informal economy. It is said that it is comparable to modern European countries and that it is easier to follow financial flows. In view of the above, we will support the proposal in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, very nice greeting! In his explanation, the bill stated that the existing gambling law allowed the establishment of classical gambling for a maximum of two organisers. In the field of lottery games is the organizer of Lottery Slovenia and in the field of sports betting Sports lottery. The bill retains the monopoly of lottery and proposes liberalisation in the field of sports betting. It therefore proposes that in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia a concession for the permanent arrangement of classical gambling is granted exclusively to Loteria Slovenije and the Government can also grant betting concessions, a maximum of 15 concessions for the design of special gambling in the casino and a maximum of 45 concessions for the design of special gambling in gaming salons. With regard to the solutions proposed, it explains that, given the nature of the market and the activities of the actual lottery monopoly of Slovenia in the field of classical lottery, there is a stable practice in EU countries and is legally and economically meaningful. The proposer emphasises that its main objective of amending the law is to regulate and stabilise the financing of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations indirectly and to align the area of the adaptation of sports betting with the legal order of the EU and the judgments of Slovenian courts, taking into account modern trends and international arrangements in the field of wage-setting. It believes that this can be achieved by introducing concessions to adjust bets to a larger number of concessionaires from the European Economic Area as well, and that bets are redefined internationally as an artificial game. The government replied and explained that the assessment of the revenues from sports betting in the case of several concessionaires depends on a number of variables. First of all, if we compare these duties with other European countries, we would apply for concessions in the Republic of Slovenia, in the event of a relatively high tax and concession tax burden in the Republic of Slovenia. In the event of the entry of new concessionaires into the sports betting market, according to the Government, this, with their more competitive offer of bets in the first place, would mean redistribution of the existing sports betting players who are now playing at the Sports lottery to the new bidders. Given the size of the market, the number of players is not expected to increase significantly. It should also be added that a more competitive offer in sports betting means better quotas and higher profits and payments, which reduces the base for taxes and concession fees, which is the difference between bets and payments. This could reduce the tax and concession tax revenues received by the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will, in view of the conflicting opinions of the bill-maker and the government, decide on the proposal of the law at the discretion of Members and Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the 12th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 10. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the housing law after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and a delegation with the first-signed Dr. France Trčko. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u118	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at its 73rd emergency meeting, on 7. 3. 2018 was treated as a parent labour body by the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law submitted by the Group of Members and Members, signed by Dr. France Trčko, after a reduced procedure. In a supplementary explanation to the proposal for a law, on behalf of the proposer, Mr Mesec pointed out that a proposal for a law proposed the introduction of a new Article 115.a of the Housing Law, giving municipalities the possibility to regulate rents by setting the maximum possible rent per square metre of dwelling area and setting the maximum possible increase in rents as a percentage of growth at the annual level. Both may be determined differently for different categories of dwellings to be determined by a specific rule on housing categorisation issued by the Minister. The law preserves the provision that rentals for commercial, commercial and rental apartments are created free on the market, but adds the possibility of an exception to the regulation of rentals for commercial and dedicated dwellings at the level of municipalities. He stressed that the current housing policy did not provide for any regulation of the real estate market. The current regulation results in high housing prices and market rents that most people cannot afford. In particular, this has been felt in the last period since the real estate prices started to rise again after the crisis, with prices still being too high, especially for young people, despite a certain decline during the crisis. The Government's opinion on the bill was put forward by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Mrs Lidija Stebernak, who explained that the Government does not support the bill. The government is aware of the problems of lack of public housing, as one of the main objectives of the Resolution on the National Housing Programme is to increase their number. The Housing Fund plays a major role in this regard, which, through its adopted business policy by 2020, has set itself the goal of providing 2 000 new public rental apartments. With the increase in the provision of public rentals, it is certainly necessary to amend the legislation which will allow the increase in current non-profit rents to the actual cost level and the correction of the increase in the subsidy or apartment allowance. It further pointed out that the problem of the lack of public rentals since 2009 has also been addressed by a subsidy of market rent, which was further regulated by the amendment of the Housing Law in June 2017. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service highlighted in particular some comments from a constitutional point of view. It pointed out that the Constitutional Court’s assessment was that it meant limiting the amount of market rent and its annual growth by standardising the way in which property is consumed, or by interfering with property rights. It is also clear from the Constitution and the established constitutional judgment that these issues, i.e. the manner in which property rights can be exercised and any interference thereof, are to be determined only by law and that the legislator cannot delegate this constitutional power to other bodies, as is the case with this bill when it is passed on to the local community. On behalf of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, State Councillor Mr Vnučec explained that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. In the debate, the majority of Members and Members agreed with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the solution provided for in the bill was constitutionally controversial and that the proposal for a law was therefore not suitable for further discussion and for a vote. After the discussion had been concluded, the Committee, pursuant to Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on the conclusion that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Housing Law was not appropriate for further consideration and adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposal for a bill by Dr. Franc Trček to present his position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Housing policy is primarily a social infrastructure policy. A suitable apartment is one of the basic human rights that the country must provide with appropriate housing policies. With the privatisation of the housing fund at the time of the fall of socialism, the resolution of housing issues in Slovenia has unfortunately left the logic of the market. Housing is not granted according to the needs, but according to the possibility of payment. Those who are able to afford it receive it, while others have a choice of street, parental or other relatives, or the payment of advanced market rents that are far beyond the payment capacity of the vast majority of the population and the population of that country. There is virtually no supervision of the rental housing market. It's just some kind of minimum income tax collection. According to the Ministry of Finance, 6 000 463 private apartments were rented last year. The number is practically identical to the assessment of the needs of public housing funds for non-profit dwellings, where most of the tenants mentioned above would move immediately if the state and the municipalities provided jointly affordable housing. Of course, the number of private apartments registered does not cover those which broadcast in black. In 2013, at the time, due to the fear of the introduction of real estate tax and the tighter supervision of the real estate market, 13 000 665 private dwellings were declared at the Ministry of Finance. So twice as much as last year. So we can confirm the well - known fact that at least every other apartment is blacked out. In Levica, we introduce the first instruments of regulation on the rental market by rejecting the amendment of the Housing Law. The municipalities would be able to determine the maximum amount of rent that can be charged in their area and the maximum permitted growth of these rentals. We also propose that the Ministry of the Environment and Space prepare a regulation for the categorisation of rental apartments, on the basis of which different rent levels would be determined according to the different quality of dwellings. The growing housing pressures of the population, especially the young, are causing the tenants to force even the most inappropriate basement holes into life than some high - rent apartments. What we propose in Levica is, in fact, nothing revolutionary this time. Many countries, including the Member States of the European Union, have a system for regulating both the level of rent and the height of their growth. The most exemplary example of this is Germany, where the law, just as proposed in Levica, allows local communities to limit the growth of rents. Such a measure allowed greater housing security, predictability of the cost of living, essentially the cost of living, in a number of towns, in many German municipalities, was limited to evicting the population from the city’s cores, from the centres and also to gentrification. You're telling us that our proposal for a law interferes with the right to private property. You know, in addition to protecting this, the constitution also provides that the state is creating opportunities for citizens and citizens to obtain suitable housing. The law only offers municipalities the possibility of regulating, as I have already mentioned, as well as determining the amount of rent according to the quality of each apartment. Of course, it will be necessary to encourage the construction of affordable non-profit rental apartments, of course it will be necessary to support the start-up of housing cooperatives, but it will also be necessary to regulate the private market and the rent levels of private apartments, which in some regions, in particular university centres, exceed the minimum levels, and at all costs more than average wages. The housing policy, which this society and the state have not had in the last 25 years, regardless of who made up coalitions and governments, is at the heart of the Left programme and is also an integral part of the developmental social infrastructure policy of each country, every society that thinks of itself. Unfortunately this Slovenia has not been in the past 25 years and, of course, the law is as it is, suitable for further consideration, you know. And if I touch that again – we have largely summed up our legal order by German law and it is not a problem that collides with constitutional matter. This time, too, I am sorry that the ladies in the Legislative and Legal Service, whom I highly appreciate, are wrong. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Ms Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, to present my position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The bill amending the Housing Law, which is before you, wishes to give the municipalities the opportunity to limit the amount of rent for commercial and dedicated rental apartments in their territory by decree. The proposal argues with a lack of rents and consequently high rents and a comparison with countries where the relationship between ownership and rentals is clearly in favour of the latter. In Slovenia, however, we have more than 90% of our own apartments, so we are not comparable to the housing policies of those countries. Likewise, market rents have not increased in recent years. We would like to point out that the Government is aware of the problems of lack of public housing and therefore one of the main objectives of the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025 is to increase the number of dwellings in the future. That is why the orientation of the new policy set out in the resolution is to increase the public rental fund. This is also reflected in the adopted Business Policy of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2017-2020, which set itself the goal of providing 2 000 new public rental apartments by 2020. Calls are already under way to enable municipalities and public funds to build these funds. However, based on the amendment of the Housing Law adopted in June last year, they may be indebted to a greater extent than they may be prior to the amendment of this Act. With the increase in the provision of public rentals, it is certainly necessary to amend the legislation which will allow the increase of current non-profit rents to the actual cost level and the provision of subsidies or housing supplements to the socially weak. The preparation of legislative amendments relating to the creation of a new rent policy is already under way, public treatment of the starting points took place in 2017. In view of the content of the bill, it must also be said that the problem of the lack of public rentals is also addressed by a subsidy of market rent covered by the State and the municipality, each of which is one half. We would also draw attention to the provision in the Housing Law, which already allows for restrictions on market rents in the municipality, namely Article 119 and Article 120 of the Housing Law, which lays down the rent and the procedure for restricting the market rent. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that the objective that the proposed law sought to achieve by limiting market rents will also be achieved through the activities presented, while stressing that the municipalities, as I have already said, also have the possibility of restricting market rent after the current regulation. The analysis also shows that there has been no significant increase in market rents in the last period and therefore no such measure is necessary and reasonable. Because of the above-mentioned Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal does not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal that the law is not suitable for further consideration, even though we understand the intention of the proposer. One of the main reasons for such a decision is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This pointed to possible unconstitutionality, as the proposed solutions would affect property rights. It follows from the constitutional judgment that it means limiting the amount of market rent and its annual growth to the standardisation of the way property is consumed, which is controversial from the point of view of the Constitution. The legislative and legal service has also pointed out that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also provides that the way to exercise property rights and even any intervention thereof can be determined only by law and that the legislator cannot delegate this constitutional power to other authorities, in which case to the local community. The bill does not follow the constitutional requirements mentioned above, as it does not specify any substantive criteria, the manner and extent of the restriction of market rent, but leaves the power to regulate it to the municipalities. In our country, we have a very high share of ownership apartments. These are more than 90%. It is precisely because of this specificity that housing policy is difficult to compare with the rest of the European Union. It is because we are all aware that we do not have enough public rental apartments that the National Housing Programme was adopted in 2015, where the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia plays the main role. This programme is the one that provides guidance and contains measures aimed at resolution. Thus, the Housing Fund with its own construction and cooperation with municipal housing funds will provide up to 2,000 additional dwellings by 2020, most of them in Ljubljana, Maribor and Kranj. Measures to provide housing for the elderly and for the housing community and housing cooperative project should also contribute to addressing this problem. The plan also includes a change in the non-profit rent scheme, which would be replaced by a cost rent, and subsidies would be granted to cover the difference. In addition, I would like to remind you that the Secretary of State has pointed out that the law already in force allows municipalities to limit the so-called service rent. We are talking about the rent at a time when the rent for more than half exceeds the average rent in a given area. Allow me to conclude by saying again that we will also today, in the Desus Group, support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u126	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! By means of a proposal from the Law, the proposer wishes to give the municipalities the opportunity to limit the amount of rents for commercial and dedicated rental apartments in their area by decree. The proposal argues with a lack of rents and consequently high rents and with the fulfilment of Article 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that the state creates opportunities for citizens to obtain a suitable housing. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that every citizen, in particular families with children, must be given a realistic opportunity to ensure at least a minimum standard of housing in their own or rented apartment. In particular, in our Group of Members, we are committed to helping young families solve the first housing problem. In solving the housing problem, there are very limited young generations who are just creating a family; their creditworthiness is low because of employment for a certain period of time or a part of recreation. In addition to the increase in the rental fund, special arrangements should therefore be put in place to provide housing for young families and young individuals, both in terms of long-term rental and the possible purchase of the first apartment. In our parliamentary group, we are aware that the shortage of rental apartments and, as a result, the growing rent problem is a problem that needs to be addressed comprehensively. We believe that the offer of public and private rental apartments is too low. It is therefore necessary to accelerate the construction of new dwellings in order to increase the rental housing fund. The Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, adopted in 2015, states that the solution to the rental problem is to increase the number of public rental apartments. The main role in this is taken over by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which, through its adopted business policy for the period 2017 to 2020, has set itself the goal of providing 2 000 new public rental apartments by 2020. If this goal is met, at least a few young families will solve the first housing problem. In the coming term, housing problems or the resolution of the first housing problem must be one of the priorities. We are also ready for this in New Slovenia. In Novi Slovenije, we also agree with the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service that we cannot leave the restriction of rents to the municipalities, that this country must solve the law. We have also discussed this on the committee and we propose that in some way all the non-occupied housing units be included, and these should be, according to some statistics in Slovenia, between 170 and 180 000, those that are empty, unoccupied. This must be resolved by tax policy or by the help of the community and the state to all those who do not know or cannot place these accommodations themselves, because there is great damage when housing units remain empty and, on the other hand, housing shortages. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group we also support that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u128	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! In Levika we proposed the possibility of setting up municipalities, setting the highest acceptable rent on their territories for the following reasons. The first is that if you look at rent prices in Ljubljana, you will find that they are on average 11.28 euros per square meter. This means that for an apartment somewhere between 55 and 65 square metres on average, rent alone costs more than 600 euros. At the same time, it is necessary to add an additional 200, 250 euros in expenses and then find that, say, a young couple, each earns a thousand, a total of 2,000, spends almost half of its household income only on rent and on housing costs. This is the reality of the social picture of young people in Slovenia. And then don't be surprised why young people go abroad. For example, in the neighbouring town of Graz, renting apartments costs less than in Ljubljana, 8 euros per square meter, not 11 more than us, with the standard there being 2 times higher. The second reason why such a measure is necessary is that housing policy in Slovenia has been inappropriate for 25 years. Since the division of dwellings and the establishment of private ownership over more than 90% of dwellings in Slovenia, the state has not led any systematic policies to allow generations who have not come to their own home with Jasbinska to have some suitable conditions for obtaining housing or creating conditions in which these citizens could obtain a suitable dwelling, as provided for in Article 78 of the Constitution. If we look only at the 2018 and 2019 budgets, it is quickly clear that the country will spend only €700,000 per year on housing policy for the national real estate fund. €700,000 is the amount that this fund can buy, say, three wardrobes in Ljubljana. And that's all. Then we should not be surprised why this fund functions as a private real estate agency, because the government itself forces it to rely on its own resources and therefore builds apartments such as Green Gaj on Brdo, which sells EUR 3 000 per square metre, where the other room or balcony is considered superstandard and where the building of the block deserves a 100 % margin on sale. This is how we acquire resources for further construction, and the country is looking at it peacefully on the one hand, and on the other hand, it does not do anything in terms of budgetary incentives in order to ensure some sustainable construction that people can also access. The result of this is, of course, that the prices of dwellings are flying to the sky, only in the last three years have on average increased in Ljubljana from EUR 2 000 200 per square meter to EUR 3 000 per square meter, the rents have been high for years, as I mentioned, for example, a third higher than in neighbouring Graz, where the standard is significantly better, and therefore, as a way out of force, we propose that municipalities be able to limit rents. The government says that such a measure is unconstitutional, which is essentially surprising to me, similar arrangements are known everywhere in Europe, and the Global Property Guide platform has shown that out of the 27 Member States in 15 countries, the legislation favours tenants, is neutral in 6 countries, including Slovenia, and is explicitly favoured by landlords. Any attempt to reverse this relationship is read by the Government and the lobby as an interference with a free economic initiative, which is at odds with all standards in other countries. We hope that today, too, Members will vote against the fact that this proposal is not suitable for further consideration, as it is essential that we begin to think seriously about how to allow people access to housing in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u129	Mr Marjan Dolinšek will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u130	Thank you, Chairman. Representatives of the government, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! With amendments to the Housing Law, the proposer proposes that municipalities in their territory should be able to regulate the amount of marketable and purposeful rentals of dwellings and that municipalities that decide to limit the amount of rents should be obliged to introduce a category of rental apartments. The proposal may appear to be a solution in the real estate market in particular in areas where demand is high, but during the consideration of the proposal it has been shown that such a solution is opposed both by the professional and by the interested public, since the solution would not in practice lead to the desired effects. The Commission took note of the opinion of the Government, which opposes the proposal for a law, stressing that in Slovenia more than 90% of equity housing is not appropriate and therefore compares it with countries that have a high share of renting apartments. Representatives of the Government said they were aware of the problem of housing shortages, as the Resolution on National Housing of the Programme, which was adopted in 2015, was aimed at increasing the rental housing fund. This is also the main task of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which has set itself a goal for the period until 2020 to provide 2,000 new public rental apartments. During the course of the consideration of the proposal, the government expressed its reservations to the proposed amendment, as it is explained that calls are under way to enable municipalities and public housing funds to obtain housing funds. In addition, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and Space pointed out that a comprehensive amendment of housing legislation was needed to provide subsidies or housing supplements to the socially weak. In the current mandate, the Minister of Housing Law has failed to implement, and we hope that the next Minister or Minister will make more efforts to ensure that young people facing the housing problem today are finally given the opportunity to obtain a suitable housing, which is the constitutional right of every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia under Article 78 of the Constitution. The proposed solutions are also opposed by the Public Housing Fund of the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, which shows that the solutions proposed are inadequate and inconsistent. We believe that the proposed possibility of regulated rents by municipalities can have the opposite effect from the desired increase in the renting housing fund, as housing owners cannot be forced to rent at a lower price. The scope of the grey market, i.e. dwellings that are undeclared and thus avoid this regulation, can also be further increased. That is why we have not supported the modern centre of the bill in the Group of the Parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u131	On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mr Daniel Krivec will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Once again, there is a law that is passed after a reduced procedure, and there is not enough possibility for all stakeholders to be familiar with the specific issue and proposal of this housing law proposed in Levica. In view of the fact that it is a short process, it is also logical that all the key stakeholders, all the municipalities in this country and for them both key associations, both the ZOS and the SOS, have identified negative to this proposal of the law, since no one has consulted the municipalities in order to implement a concrete solution later in practice. The proposal for a law is aimed at setting the maximum amount of rent available for housing, which is probably not feasible in practice. On the other hand, it has made clear to the Legislative and Legal Service that this is also contrary to a law which does not allow the transfer of the right of jurisdiction and the right of the power to regulate this matter to the municipalities, but must be governed by law in particular. The fact is that in this area we already have an option in this field, which the municipalities have to regulate the amount of rent for dwellings and, on the other hand, it is clear that these rental apartments in our country are largely insufficient. The market also does not function normally from this address. Therefore, to some extent, the comparisons presented by the applicant are inappropriate, since the number of dwellings in comparable countries with which the case was compared is significantly higher than the number of dwellings available for broadcast in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the applicant is referring to the real problem in this country, that housing is largely insufficient for young people, which is a fact, but in fact it has not been solved by this proposal in any case, or if we agree to adopt this law, it would probably lead to a substantial number of problems in practice. We probably all agree with the proposaler that no one would want to agree that rents are to a certain extent a dumpling in this country, so it is likely that there is still a great deal of room for improvement in this area of housing and housing. In fact, this law does not bring any added value, and we do not support it in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u133	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This also interrupts the 10th item of the agenda. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on non-profit mediation within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Lydia Stebernak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a Real Estate Intermediation Act constitutes a new legal framework for the operation of real estate companies. The reasons for the adoption of the new law or for the new regulation of this area are still at an insufficient level of consumer interest protection and insufficient or insufficient legal security for both consumers and real estate companies. In order to protect these persons, a restriction on the payment of 4 % of the value of the immovable property which is the subject of the intervention and remains at the same level as laid down in the applicable Real Estate Intermediation Act is laid down in the law. The news is also increased party autonomy regarding the duration of the Real Estate Intermediation Contract. The limitation of the payment for intervention in the conclusion of economic contracts is abolished in order to relax the intervention on the real estate market and the free economic initiative. In this part, the Government, as a proponent, also follows the deregulation obligation laid down by the Internal Market Services Directive, while for the sake of consumer protection it proposes an exception and still regulates the payment for intervention in the purchase and sale of real estate of natural persons. It is also very important that a provision new to the exclusive contract obliges the contracting authority not to conclude intermediate contracts with other intermediaries for the same property. The proposal also provides for a new procedure for the acquisition and termination of a real estate broker’s licence, and for the effective authorisation and withdrawal of real estate brokers’ licences to be transferred from the Ministry to administrative units. Local competence of administrative units is excluded, supplementary training of real estate intermediaries is suspended in accordance with the deregulation of professions. It is found that there was a lack of a more detailed regulation in the implementation of the current legislation relating to compliance with the rules on the safe and sound operation of real estate companies, notably in identifying and informing the contracting authority of the legal and factual status of the real estate. As a result of this proposal, the legislative text contains principles that all stakeholders in real estate transport must comply with. Thus, before the conclusion of the real estate contract, the real estate company will have to verify the legal and actual state of the property and the contracting entity and the third party’s written notice of any legal or other real estate errors. The real estate company shall be liable to the customer and to third parties for damage caused by legal or real errors resulting from the suspension of the obligation to verify the condition of the property and the warning of errors if it knew or should have known about the errors. Finally, I should like to point out that the proposed proposal followed the principle of deregulation of the real estate trade, regulation of economic contracts, effective control and regulation of criminal provisions, and not least, but most importantly, greater legal security for consumers. At the same time, I propose that the National Assembly at this meeting also carry out a third examination of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u135	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Daniel Anton Rance.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u136	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Stebernak, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space considered the proposal for a Real Estate Intermediation Act at its 37th session. 1st and 38th sitting 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, representatives of the State Council and representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service, representatives of the professional and interested public participated in the meetings of the Committee. In addition to the explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space Lidija Stebernak said that the reasons for the drafting of the bill were two, despite the applicable law on the real estate transfer, consumer interests were insufficiently protected and the lack of legal certainty of consumers as real estate companies. Ms Lidija Stebernak presented the news in the bill below. The news is conditioned by the fact that the greatest difficulty in implementing the current law is compliance with the rules on the safe and sound operation of real estate companies, notably in identifying and informing the contracting authority of the legal and factual state of the property. With some innovations, the Government also follows the deregulation obligation laid down by the Internal Market Services Directive, while, due to consumer protection, it proposes an exception and still regulates the payment for intervention in the purchase and sale of real estate of natural persons. The Secretary of State stressed that the draft law follows the principle of deregulation of a real estate intermediary's profession, regulates the economic contract, effective supervision and criminal provisions, and brings greater legal certainty to both consumers and real estate intermediaries. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the draft law in accordance with its competences and had submitted comments to the individual articles in the written opinion. She said that the proposals of the coalition parliamentary groups, with the amendments of the Committee, harmonise the provisions of the proposed law with the Code of Criminal Procedure and that the other proposals for amendments to the Committee were closer to the comments of the written opinion. The representative of the Council of State stressed that the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supported the proposal of the law. He further presented concerns about certain legal solutions that had also been cited in the case of the opinion of the Commission. The Director of the Chamber for Real Estate Management at the Chamber of Commerce and the representative of the Association of Consumers of Slovenia presented the roles of their organisations in the preparation of the bill. In the debate, MEPs and Members were quite critical of the draft law. In particular, they referred to the opinions presented by those invited to the meeting, which made the proposal worse than the one in force. They also pointed out that the consumer is now significantly better protected under the current law than under the new law. Some comments and comments from Members were responded by the State Secretary and rejected by them. She also stressed that they have been aligned with both the Slovenian Consumers' Association and the Real Estate Chamber. The legal solutions were also coordinated with the market inspectorate. She said that interests were often at odds, so it was necessary to find a compromise on where to protect the consumer and where to regulate or deregulation the activities of real estate intervention. The debate on Article 19 ended with the adoption of a decision to suspend and postpone the consideration and decision on a proposal for a law to one of the following meetings. The Committee therefore resumed the suspension of the meeting at its 38th session. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the In the course of the debate, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted 18 amendments of qualified candidates, 15 of which were not accepted and 6 amendments were irrelevant. The Committee also adopted 11 of its amendments. The Committee also voted on the articles of the bill as a whole and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law in which all the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u137	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman. Once again, a nice hello to you all. In the introductory part, the explanatory part of the bill can be read, I quote: "The fundamental principle of the bill is to ensure effective consumer protection. Effective consumer protection is the basic reason for regulating services in the real estate transfer market." End of quote. It would be difficult to invent a thicker lie than it has just read that the fundamental principle of the bill before us is ensuring consumer protection, since it is more than obvious to deregulation of real estate intervention, which is making consumer protection worse in the vast majority of cases. The Union of Consumers of Slovenia, the suspension of the meeting, the massive amendments of the coalition, as the rapporteur rightly stated, and we can thank Levice for the fact that the initial aim of the drastic deterioration of consumer protection with the proposed law has not been achieved. For example, the law abolishes compulsory supplementary training of real estate intermediaries, which is prescribed every five years under the current law. While the government notes that the quality of real estate intervention is also ensured through supplementary education and training, the decision on this is left by the Government to the real estate intermediaries in view of the market situation. The law leaves out certain provisions of the current law on the payment of the commission of contracting entities, for example, only after the contract on the sale of real estate has been concluded. The law introduces an exclusive intervention contract whereby the owner of the property will eventually have to pay the real estate commission to the real estate agency, even if he sells the property himself. The law introduces fiduciary accounts to which real estate companies may accept money from the contracting authority or from the buyer of the property, which is an unnecessary provision. Even more, there is a harmful provision allowing for a type of financial manipulation. And I could also mention the weaknesses of this marriage. Many amendments to the coalition have been adopted on the committee, as well as on the Left, which greatly improve the government's proposal for a law at its source. In particular, reference should be made to the limitation of the commission to intervene in the rental of a property to the amount of one month's rent, as proposed in Levica. Why? Currently, real estate companies are charging the amount of one or two rentals for the rental. If we add a security to the owner of at least one rent, sometimes even more, for example, we come to the price of renting 60 square metres of a large flat without rent for a specific month from a thousand 200 to a thousand 800 euros or 2 to 3 minimum net salary. As a result, renting market apartments for most people, especially students who have to study in remote places from places of permanent residence, is severely hampered if not already disabled. For this reason, we also propose several amendments in the plenary session in Levica, with which we can improve the law a little bit. We propose the return of mandatory supplementary training for real estate intermediaries under the current law, we propose the removal of fiduciary accounts to real estate companies, we propose a clear provision that the real estate company does not have the right to payment if the contracting authority sells the real estate itself, and we also propose an increase in the fine for those who carry out real estate transactions but do not have the right to do so. In short, some very harmful practice that was tried to introduce this government proposal was probably written somewhere in the offices of the Ministry of Environment and Space, where this resort belongs, we have slightly improved on the home labour body. We are trying to make further improvements, and if all these amendments are adopted, we will not oppose the bill. This is an amendment which opens up a wide range of stakeholders associated with this area. From the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, in good work the real estate owners themselves, to the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, which, after all, probably shows how harmful this proposal was at the source. I hope that in future such coalitions, such parties in such an important sector as housing policy, will no longer be in Slovenia for the next 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u139	The word is given by Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. One more nice hello to everyone. The current Real Estate Intermediation Act was adopted in 2003. Both real estate services contracting authorities and real estate companies, the competent ministry and the Consumers' Union have observed during this period that the law needs to be recast due to the perceived insufficient level of consumer interest protection and not sufficiently precise arrangements for the mutual obligations of the parties in concluding real estate contracts. A number of cases have been observed in the conduct of brokering operations without a licence, the incorrect accounting of the costs of intervention, the imposition of third-party intervention contracts, the conditionality of real estate sightings by the conclusion of an intervention contract, the provision of false data on the insurance of real estate companies, the charging of costs when the contract was not concluded and similar. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that it is high time to adopt legal solutions that provide greater legal certainty for participants in real estate transport and thus enhance the quality of the provision of real estate services. In order to ensure greater legal certainty for consumers, the proposal for a real estate intervention law brings the following news. As a fundamental principle, it introduces the principle of consumer protection. Clear rules shall be introduced in which cases a real estate company is entitled to an intervention payment, the ceiling of the actual costs of the real estate company which it may charge to the contracting authority when it is not entitled to an intervention payment shall be limited to the obligations of the real estate company which it has in the course of the intervention. In view of the change in actual competence, the procedure for obtaining and terminating the authorisation and obtaining the status of a real estate intermediary shall be laid down in detail and a central electronic record shall be established which shall contain the necessary information to be made available to the public in respect of registered real estate intermediaries, the possibility of concluding exclusive intervention contracts and the limitation of the duration of such a contract shall be established and the obligations of the investor to sell the real estate he is building for the market shall be governed by the possibility of charging fines over a period of time, the amount of fines to allow effective inspection shall be determined. In the practice of implementing the applicable law, there have been many difficulties in complying with the rules on the safe and sound operation of real estate companies relating to the identification and knowledge of the contracting authority of the legal and factual state of the property. The real estate company will also have to verify in writing the legal and factual status of the real estate and the contracting entity and the third party, following a new prior to the conclusion of the real estate contract, in writing, any legal or other real estate errors. Thus, according to the new real estate company, it will also be liable for damage caused by legal or real errors if it knew or should have known about these errors. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we estimate that all these innovations and more detailed arrangements are focused primarily on the benefit of consumers and that the adoption of the law improves the position of consumers or subscribers, as they are called under this law, which is why we intend to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u141	The text is given by the SDS Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! We have a real estate law ahead of us. In the preamble to this law, there is much talk that this law should regulate the relationship in the area of real estate mediation, mainly in relation to contracting authorities and intermediaries and also to intermediary companies. However, when we considered this law on the committee, it proved to be one of the laws that is not really necessary at the moment. The representative of the Slovenian Consumer Union made it clear in the debate that there have been no problems in this area for the past 12 years and that the debate was even more substantive, as far as the solutions are concerned. When the debate touched on individual articles and individual amendments to both the coalition and the opposition, it was clear that the law brought more confusion and inadequacy than the previous law. Many amendments to both the coalition and the opposition have also been adopted, some even after a greater interruption and consultation with the Legislative and Legal Service, by assessing that the law is still to some extent designed to solve the underlying problem. However, the fact remains that this law was not needed at this time to change. It is true that it restricted real estate intervention and defined the maximum allowed payment to 4% of the value of individual contracts, but these restrictions and commitments were also in the existing law, which was actually in force. In a way, it seemed unacceptable to us in the debate, or both the coalition and the opposition, to some extent agreed that it was not permissible to abolish compulsory supplementary education for all those intermediaries operating on the market. I must say that the Chamber of Real Estate Management at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and, interestingly, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia also agreed. So this solution, which is being pressed by the Ministry, is inappropriate in this case, and I hope that some of the amendments envisaged today by the opposition opposition groups, both the Left and the New Slovenia, will actually be supported and adopted, because that is also the case with our vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u143	Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! The current Real Estate Intermediation Act is one of those laws which has been rarely amended in the past and in the opinion of the competent ministry no longer provides sufficient legal certainty for consumers or real estate companies. Therefore, the Ministry of Environment and Space has decided to establish a new legal framework with this comprehensive novelty for the operation of real estate companies, with which legal certainty is expected to increase for both companies and consumers. One of the important solutions under the current law, which continues to be maintained, is that for consumers the payment for intervention will continue to be regulated and, in the case of purchase and sale, will be up to 4 % of the contract price. However, there will no longer be a restriction on the fee for contracts concluded by companies between them, allowing for a free economic initiative in this area, and the rules of bond law will apply. An important news brought by the proposal is that, according to the new contracting authority, they will have to inform the contracting authority of the legal and factual status of the property purchased by the contracting authority. Certain conditions for real estate companies and intermediaries are also changed, authorisation is provided for the conduct of brokering operations based on evidence of professional competence and that he will not be legally convicted of certain offences. Administrative units will be responsible for issuing and withdrawing authorisations for intermediaries. The debate on the working body itself was boisterous, varied and interesting, as we faced different views not only of individual parliamentary groups, but of the Chamber for Real Estate and Consumers of Slovenia. Since most were not satisfied with the basic text itself, nor with the amendments, the basic text of the law was even interrupted and continued in more than a month. At the following meeting, certain amendments were prepared together with key stakeholders, which we hope will at least correct the text of the amendment to the extent that they are all at least approximately satisfied together. Thus, in order to avoid the possibility that the percentages of the payment for the transfer would be aggregated when a real estate company entered into one contract with the real estate seller and another contract with the buyer of the same property, the amendment of the Board decided to distribute the payment for the transfer in accordance with the agreement, but the total amount should not exceed 4 % of the contract price. The same is true if the same real estate company provides multi-procurement services. However, the law did not return to the requirement for additional training of real estate intermediaries every five years, as most of the participants considered that very strict conditions were already laid down for obtaining a licence to engage in real estate transport, so there is no need for additional training. Indeed, the withdrawal of such provisions is likely to interfere with the already mentioned Register of Real Estate Agents, since the implementation of periodic education was in their domain, which means that the Chamber will therefore receive less income. The bill was adopted on the home working body and we will vote in favour of the law in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u145	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I inform you that the amendment of the Left Group to the new Article 16a has not been tabled in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 135 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so we will not discuss or vote on it. Let's start with Article 16. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Dr. Franz Duck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Since this is usually the case with amendments, I will give a slightly broader framework at first, although I can see that there is no longer any crazy desire to work at this last regular meeting of this Assembly. When we had a debate Friday on the future of Slovenia, Tonin somehow said that Desus was a party for rich pensioners. If I was watching this marriage, how you filed it and wanted to drive it, one might say that Desus is a client for the rich. I come from Maribor alone. But you know, even a few pensioners and pensioners can no longer live in rents, or in their own so-called ownership apartments, because simple rental costs, the costs you pay for what we used to say are too high. And I can remember when our loving neighbor suddenly disappears from our yard, if I put it that way, even though it was a lady with university education, not with the lowest pensions, not too high, because she simply failed to pay the rent and the costs. If someone were to remove their robes, then this should be Desus on the same line as Levi, not to defend the insanely harmful bill that came into the house by the Ministry, which is from their quota. The responsibility of the National Assembly is also that if someone who is really from your party is in the executive branch of power to propose something so harmful, you are up to your strictest and most critical, not the critique. This law must be read together with what we have previously proposed, what has been rejected, and this attempt at total liberalisation of this area is variable. There's been a lot of saying, I'll be honest with you. Lies. Let's say that there was no substantial increase in rent, although it is more than clear from the record we have that less than two years ago in Ljubljana, for example, this increase was 17%. Or let's say that our previous novels are constitutionally controversial, although, as I have already mentioned to Germany, and our legal order is quite overwritten, often only the part that corresponds to us from the German legal order has the Constitutional Court there, I hope to say, with all due respect for the team here in the vicinity, at a slightly higher level, the rent regulation there is not constitutionally controversial. And I've read quite a few decisions by the German Constitutional Court. Then the stories of the guy, yeah, we can't because that's the way it is, but with us there's so many, there's so much If you don't have a housing policy, then you can't compare it. [[…]] First you have to have it, first you have to create it so you can compare something. If I don't dance ballet, I can't compare myself to someone who dances ballet. The subsidy system – all those seriously involved in housing policy, the subsidy system does not work because the subsidy system does not prevent you from inflating, increasing prices. This is also why what we call the red Danube the best housing policy in Europe is a system that actually ensures that prices are not inflated. The key problem we have in the area of housing policy is that we do not actually have it. People who went to watch the NSP found out — what? To be implemented in 10%. The main problem is that Article 78 of the Constitution, which also speaks of providing adequate housing opportunities for all of us, is essentially a dead letter on paper, as you like to say, for 27 years. And here's the key problem and the starting point. In this real estate law, I have already said in my position why it is so problematic, through a series of discussions with the stakeholders I have mentioned, we are again at the amendment session, and we are trying to fix, to bring out what is most problematic and harmful. In Article 16, not what the colleague mentioned, but in the first part, we are essentially returning or we want what the real estate owners themselves want so that they can continue to receive this education. But you know, in some society, I don't think it's just gonna save our own minds. If some activity wants to be smart, educated, and the department wants to disable it, I apologize, it's irresponsible and unacceptable madness for me. That's Article 16. By 19. Article, this is essentially another madness. If I give an agency to sell my apartment, and I can't sell it, and I sell it, it can't charge me some crazy costs, which is probably understandable to everyone. If I go to the pizza shop and my pizza doesn't burn, they can't charge my pizza, I mean, good day. As for Article 34, there is no need for fiduciary accounts to leave cash in real estate. By our legal order, lawyers and notaries have this option. I deal with one of the bank investigators, we already have too much money laundering in Slovenia, and the system will have to be carefully repaired to allow this to collapse, cut out, laser removal, but not to introduce this possibility into some new laws. As for Article 43, we are essentially raising the amount of some fines and penalties for those who would like to do so, but in fact they do not have a license to do so. This is not a measure that would penalize someone on a basic basis, it is a measure that is dissuasive because of its height. The purpose of the laws is also to prevent some of the robberies from being prevented. If these amendments are adopted, as I have already said, we will not oppose the law, but otherwise such a law as it is, we cannot support it, because already a large majority of the stakeholders have said that this existing one is such that the system currently works. But first we have to get to some serious housing policy, including rent regulation and what I said earlier. These are some urgent requirements that should be addressed. All those working in this area know that at least 10,000 rental apartments in Slovenia would be needed at this moment. We are too often too critical here, because Slovenia is not only Ljubljana and Maribor. In fact, rental apartments would be needed in every municipality in Slovenia, although some mayors are not aware of this. But it is true that we also need a reform of local self-government. It is also true that we need a functioning province or region in two mandates, if you want, not the way that the policy option will cut off its piece, and finally that we will start dealing with housing policy after almost 30 years. The fact that most politicians have a settled housing issue or that they get a favourable credit as they get it, the head of the government's office, the current president of the country, or that someone who has a slightly less favourable loan, say, a SMC in Switzerland, is high enough, and they're rebuking it into a more favourable one, all these facts are not yet an excuse that politics is not dealing with something that is not personally relevant to anyone. The policy is to turn beyond its own nose and personal interests. It is high time for us to come to the National Assembly in the next reference to people who are looking beyond ourselves, and beyond what Serbs would say, how will someone “screw” somewhere. The left will be talking about serious housing policy, because it's about time we got it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u147	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else would like to discuss Article 16? I see it's a wish. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. This amendment speaks to Article 16 of the Appendix in order to add information on the educational organisation carrying out the supplementary training and the date of completion of the supplementary training. This is in the context of all the debates that have been heard about the need to maintain this compulsory training as is the case with the existing law. I also said in my position that this is normal for us. In view of the fact that all stakeholders in the discussion at the home work body have said that they have no problems with this, we did not expect the legislator to have a problem with this, it is true that the Ministry is specific if all those involved in this process, from the Slovenian Consumers' Union, to the last of all the chambers of the Chamber of Commerce dealing with real estate, do not in fact have a problem with this. That is why I expect this amendment to be voted on, because we will also provide some precondition for us to say positive things about the law, or at least we do not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u149	Mrs. Marinka Levičar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Hello, everyone! I must point out that, in essence, I agree with the two amendments proposed by the Left, i.e. Article 16 and Article 19. That is why I will not apply again for this debate on individual amendments. I think both amendments make sense. Above all, I also advocate that the position of the Slovenian Consumers Association could also be established in this law, which is why I regret in some way that Levica has not tabled an amendment to Article 23, which specifies the amount of the joint commission that the agent may charge for the sale of the apartment. I think that 4% of the total fee, as it is now somehow valid, is too high for the buyer. The cost of housing is very high. You know that the average apartment for a family is about 200,000 euros there, at least in Ljubljana. And 4% already is €800. It seems to me that one middle-aged society makes a lot of money. Especially at a time when there is a lack of real estate, when there is more demand than there is to offer. That's why I'd be very pleased, but if these commissions were lower or at least it wouldn't be like it's written down now to arrange half the buyer, half the seller. I think it should all go to the seller's account, because he's the one who deserves something from this property. However, the buyer already has huge expenses and it is difficult to even get to real estate by buying, because they are so high prices and we also know what the standard is for young people who buy real estate, because otherwise they cannot settle their housing issue or their family. As it is said, it's too late for this amendment and it's too late to ring the bell. So this is, unfortunately, as it is written in the law. I am sorry that this has not been voted on or voted on by the home labour body, but that this initiative by the Union of Consumers of Slovenia has not been adopted. Notwithstanding these basic positions I have said, I will support the law, because it seems to me entirely after so much coordination and all that this legislation in this area is still necessary for innovation and adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 16? Dr. Runcho, the replica. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u152	Thank you. Look, because a colleague would belong more to the Left, and the Lefty is written, I mean it. I still think that Desus is an anomaly, I've already explained why, but some of the other parties are pathology, which is even worse, so you won't attack me. Don't let logic drink so much water. I agree that these are high commissions. But the fact is, look, less than 40 years old, if they're not from some insanely wealthy family, and if the whole family gets together, there's no way they're buying the place. My daughter is about to finish her medicine, and where I have five kids, and I'm an emissary, a penny to buy her a wardrobe in Maribor. I don't. Unless I sell my kidney. It's not like I'm crying about being sick. Make sure everything goes to the seller. You forget that in Slovenia we also have cases where people have to sell when they sold because banks crapped them with Swiss, but they couldn't pay off the credit anymore. Or when someone in Maribor can't pay the bills, he thought he'd, he'll, he'll, he'll, he'll, he'll spend two years, and these interest rates start to work out, and you have to sell the apartment. We also wanted to get some free legal advice in this mandate. It is such a problem, and it does not fly directly to a colleague, it flies more to the hope that in the future we will actually work more substantively on what an area means. That's not true, because 25 degrees in this house were black and white, your-ours, theirs, and I don't know whose. We're already on the board there, and Dane can confirm that when we started talking about this unfortunate 4%, whether it comes together or not, we started to think a little bit, and we came up with about ten situations, and we probably forgot a few. Of that, I don't know if anyone's divorcing, so he's gonna sell the apartment, one, two. And then it turned out very quickly that this was one pretty complicated game of chess that the legislator hadn't changed his mind. It is also harmful for this to happen in such a way. After a dozen or a few years we should consider where we are, as we say in Maribor, to look at all the possibilities, to look at all these related things. Even when someone dies, ten heirs fight, and that's how much they want to make a deal, but not so much. This should first be made substantively on paper, thinking about how to go, where to cross some other laws, and only then to change such legislation. As it is now, we are always saving something, but in fact we are not saving, and in particular in this case most people are drawing this short and putting some additional noise into the Slovenian legal order. We have to end this, too. This marriage is a fine example of how this is not done. But it is also a fine example of how to go over plans in the National Assembly. After all, the SDS and the Left are not very close, we are very far apart, but in this area we have all the stakeholders, all the people we know from such or other professional backgrounds, sat on the committee, and I must say that there has been quite a lot of improvement. I want more of this in the next reference if I'm still in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u153	Would anyone else discuss Article 16? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Bell Lah, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Vice President. We propose that the third paragraph of Article 27 be deleted. Although the provision relates to the definition of actual costs, it is limited to EUR 150 by the provision of the third paragraph above, which means that it is actually administrative costs. The proposed provision is constitutionally controversial as it constitutes an infringement of the rights already acquired in accordance with Article 848 of the Bond Code, which is not justified in any way. If I can give you a little more detailed explanation. Some broker enters into a contract and this broker has a certain cost: he does a tour, he takes the buyers to this property. But it doesn't come to work at the end. The contract states that it is eligible for costs because it had costs. If I say, for example, that the seller is in Maribor and sells his weekend somewhere at sea and has an intermediary from Maribor, it has to go, say, a few times 250 kilometers away to show the buyer this property. Then this seller, for example, sells on the second line and does not come to the realization of the contract. In the contract, however, it is entitled to real costs, kilometres and several hours of work each time. There is probably already one visit above 150 euros. That is why this is at odds with the Bond Act, Article 848. The legislator may not restrict it if it is already stipulated in the contract that it is eligible for costs. We therefore propose that the third paragraph of this Article be deleted because it is not realistic. Like what Comrade Duck has already mentioned when we were chasing for an hour or more, whether 4% can be counted or not, because it was not precisely specified. But here it is contrary to the Bond Act. Please, if this amendment would support us to make this real, because there can be more intermediaries, there can be more costs, and why not these intermediaries get paid real costs that can be significantly higher, and the seller agrees. And now, by law, he can't pay.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u155	Anybody else want to discuss Article 27? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I am also putting forward in the debate the last 43rd paragraph and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the last 50th Article and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby adjourn the 14th agenda item and the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 14. 35. Thank you so much for once. See you later.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u156	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 15, 11, 12, 10, 14, 24, 25 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjournment of item 15 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Non-Governmental Organisations under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2. Amanda has a substantive link with the amendment of the same proposer to Article 30. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 30 becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u157	Thank you, President. In the debate itself, which was quite turbulent around this amendment, where we are once again putting in the Youth Council of Slovenia, which was eliminated by this law. If the local youth council can be a member and the majority of political decision makers do not prevail, then why can't the youth council be a member at the state level. I think if some compromise was made for local youth councils, as the Secretary of State here argued why this compromise was not then for the Youth Council of Slovenia, where out of the 12 members are only 4 young political parties. The majority does not prevail, so we believe that the youth council could also be a member of NGOs.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u158	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u159	Thank you very much, President. The agreement was very clear when the law was being coordinated and the Youth Council also agreed. The indisputable fact and common sense of all Slovenians and Slovenes are clear that NGOs, which the Youth Council wants to be, cannot be a part of political parties as an integral part of such a non-governmental organisation, which does not, of course, endanger their actions as individuals at the local level. More importantly, the Youth Council has a special status under the second law and, more importantly, it has direct and direct funding under the law and on the basis of the programme it implements, unlike NGOs. Therefore, we do not see any reason for dealing with this issue, nor do we wrong them. They shall maintain the status in the public interest as a special organisation with a special purpose and also an activity carried out by them. And that's what's most important to know about this amendment. Therefore, we do not support this amendment in the SMC, which has already been explained in detail and also discussed on the Committee. In addition, there was no heated debate. There was a purely normal parliamentary debate where Members are facing different views on matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u160	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u161	Thank you, President. In the SDS, we will support this amendment of the New Slovenia Group, because we believe that the Youth Council is a non-governmental and, above all, it is a non-political organisation. The Youth Council of Slovenia is the crossroads where both the left and the right underage agree and together form the policy of the Youth Council of Slovenia, while it is important to stress that far from the political underages in the Youth World do not have a majority. They're four out of 12 organizations. However, they are high added value due mainly to links with political parties. The Youth Council of Slovenia can often present its documents to political parties through pre-teens, and it also has a connection to politics, which is essential for facilitating work. The youth of political parties have also helped the Slovenian Youth Council to produce high-quality collections, brochures, we can call it, in the field of various issues of youth issues, housing, participation, labour market, education and so on. And what do we have underages from the Slovenian Youth Council as far as finance is concerned? Nothing. Except we have to pay our membership fee every year. The youth world gets the money it gets, which is essential, but it is not to be shared further with member organisations. So we don't get a cent on our transaction accounts, which is what it is, is that we have an increased cost by participating in this. But that's not essential. The important thing is that we can work together on youth policy. It is precisely because the Youth Council is the hub of both left and right organisations, because some organisations also define themselves from certain political issues and therefore are no less political, such as underage ones, that we will be an amendment that prevents the Youth Council of Slovenia from becoming a non-governmental organisation, and we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u162	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u163	Thank you very much, President. We will vote against this amendment in the left hand side. The fact is that this law comes as a solution to such a confused situation in this area and is actually welcome. That is why we will support him if this amendment is not adopted. The fact is that it is already clear from the explanation of the amendment that the Youth Council cannot be understood as a non-governmental organisation, because you write yourself that the Youth Council of Slovenia meets almost all conditions for NGOs. There can almost be no reason to grant a certain status. According to such logic, it could almost meet all the conditions of a variety of entities. It is already a sign that this amendment cannot be supported. Secondly, I think it has already been made clear. Despite the fact that the underages of the four political parties of the 12 members of the Youth Council are still, as far as I understand, their impact is relatively large and strong, similar to that of half the members of the political minors. It is therefore clear that this cannot be an institution acting as a non-governmental organisation. This does not mean that the Youth Council of Slovenia is an institution that is not necessary, which does not do important work, but is not an organization that falls within the framework of NGOs.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u164	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. Actually, I didn't want to call, but someone provoked me. The Youth Council should be the Youth Council and the youth of political parties should be the children of political parties. Let me explain on a case that will also be clear to SDS. Not everyone was laundering money at the New Bank of Credit Maribor, but some were. And what really hurt me? The fact that there will be no preteens in the Youth Council is almost as if they cannot reach the Members. I can be approached by anyone in this country who respects a constitution that is not impatient and so on. Don't sell me those pumpkins! I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u166	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 25 votes against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 48. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 15. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 16. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 59 votes against and no one against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 27. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 35 and 38. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 35 and 38 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 48. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 29. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2 has not been adopted, it has become an amendment of the same motion to Article 30 irrelevant. As the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 27 has not been adopted, the amendments to Articles 35 and 38 have become irrelevant. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 15, 16 and 29 of the amended law. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 15 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act after the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 19. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 5. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the member of the Left Group, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u167	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. We will strongly vote against this proposal in the left hand side. But I'll explain briefly why. The tax on tonnage is a substitute for the tax on profits paid by the General Navigation. If I were to pay a profit tax, I would be paying 25% of the profit tax by 2006, now 19. But General sailing, which is not a Slovenian company, but is a private company in the hands of the German shipowner Peter Döhle, has chosen a second option. Instead of the profit tax, it paid the tonage tax, which means that the profit was untaxed. The only thing they had to pay was 50 000 euros a year tax on one condition, if ships were to sell, they had to reinvest in the purchase of new ships. That was the only condition. This was done in 2012 and 6.4 million from sales should be reinvested. This company doesn't want to do this, after five years, it didn't do it, in six years, it was five years, and it wasn't. And what happened now? Her lobbyists have bullied the government to be excused in return for paying this 6.4 million euro tax. And that is the only content of this proposal. To a German shipowner with a value of EUR 8 billion, we will exempt 6.4 million from the tax in Slovenia, even though he himself has agreed to the tax on tonnage, even though he has promised to reinvest if he sells the ships. But no, we looked through his fingers for five years, but after six years, the government said, well, we'll forgive you for that tax. This is not about any rescue of Slovenian shipsmen or anything like that. This company is Slovenian less than will be Slovenian Magna in Slivnica. There are 37 other employees in the Portorož administration. If you divide these 6.4 million by 37, you'll see that we'll give one employee over €170,000. Who's in charge?Oh, my God! Why are we doing this? Why don't we tax him? Let him pay for what he promised. 6.4 million is a tax that should come directly into the budget, and so we will give this exemption directly from the pockets of Slovenian citizens to a shipowner with more assets than the entire Slovenian state budget. We are shocked to discuss such proposals at all in Levika, and, of course, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u168	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 19. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 5 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u169	Two more information on the above. Mr Peter Döhle, the owner of the General Sailing which you are giving him this tax leave, now I do not know who these 27 Members were, but I will check, at the same time, the man who, after taking over the General Navigation, destroyed its fleet and sold out its fleet and there is virtually nothing left of it today. And you're going to give this man another 6.4 million euros in tax leave back. Who's in charge?Oh, my God! You have employed the Vaskrsić family for 200 euros, but when an all-powerful foreign capitalist does so, we give him 6.4 million euros in tax leave back, even though he was practically entitled to a profit tax despite sinking the company he took over. I don't understand. The left is against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u170	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 29. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude the 11th item of the agenda. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling in the framework of the Regular Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 26. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the 12th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Law following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Housing Law is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. In Levica we will support the law we have proposed. However, we proposed the law because the rents in Slovenia are too high. If you look at what rents are like in Ljubljana, you will find that they are more expensive for a third than they are in the neighbouring Castle. The average Ljubljana rent exceeds EUR 11 per square metre in Graz, where the standard is once higher, is EUR 8 per square metre. The young couple, if each person earns a thousand euros, the average Slovenian salary, will, for example, charge 55, 60 square meters of housing in Ljubljana almost half their income, 600, 650 euros for rent and 200 to 250 euros for expenses. This is one of the reasons why young people are evicting from this country. Others are significantly better opportunities not only for earning money but also for housing and staying. We are simply proposing, following the example of Germany and 15 other European countries, where the renting system is regulated to allow municipalities to begin with regulation to intervene in the amount of rent. We will, of course, support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u172	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. 27 years we have a country, 27 years we have a 78th Article of the Constitution, which says we must also provide people with the right conditions to stay, to live, to live, to say the least. Housing policy on transport policy is one of the key social infrastructure policies. We still have an exhibition at the architectural museum right now. It wouldn't hurt if a Member of Parliament came to see her. The academic, who built the University Clinical Center, also built numerous apartments in Ljubljana, a suburban swarm, over 90 years old, Kristl, still active. And they were doing a square meter conversion of what he was building at today's prices. And came a square metre of apartment in Ljubljana under EUR 400, including equipped kitchen, equipped bathroom and built-in closets. Today, the Slovenian Housing Fund in Ljubljana builds 3,000,300 square meters. Gentlemen, this is all your fault, since 1991, all the coalitions, all the governments in this country. Serious housing policy is the heart of the Left Program and we will insist on it, even if I die. Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it. This law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u174	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u175	I will vote in favour of the negative decision, but I would still like to teach the Doctor of Science, the so-called Turk that he is Mr Kristl Prlek, but he is not Prekmurec. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u176	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 6. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude the 10th item of the agenda. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Real Estate Intermediation Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 16. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the left-wing group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. You're gonna have to put up with me a little bit longer because I'm covering this up in Levica. This amendment, however, is one of the crazier matters that I have experienced in the National Assembly for 7 months and 20 days in 3 years. Some activity, real estate owners would continue to want what is in the existing law to go on education for 5 years. They say we want to be more educated in an area where we work to make it more serious, to make it more orderly. And then there's the state, or the Ministry of Environment and Space, which says, no, let's be more stupid, in the language of the people. I don't understand. Probably because, by basic education, I'm a science-mathematic technique, but the direction of applied mathematics, I'm too logical. But the only thing that will save us is the mind, the people of God, not stupidity. And that someone is amending something to go against a profession that wants to be educated and have it in a law article, but it's crazy. In fact, our amendment to Article 16 merely preserves what is in the existing law. If you vote against it, you'll vote against reason. We in Levican will vote in favour. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u178	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 34. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 19. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u179	It's another pearl of logic. If the agency doesn't sell me the apartment, I sell it myself, I should pay the agency for not selling me the apartment. This amendment only solves this illogicality. If I sell the apartment myself, the agency can't charge me something she didn't do. I hope that's understandable. So let's do the logic exercise again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u180	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 27. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 50. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 34. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian legal order, money, cash, if expressed as such, can be kept by notaries and lawyers. After this change in this novel, the real estate owners are also expected to do so. There is no need for this, even more, even this year I am most involved with an investigator, usually named after the head of the commission of inquiry, so-called Janieva. There is already too much money laundering in this society and country, which unfortunately also happened, although decades ago it was known that there was an Italian typology and more. If anything, then we must not create any additional possibilities for money laundering through some machinations in this area as well. There is no absolute need for landowners to keep customers' money in the process of the business they deal with. In fact, our article overruns this harmful proposal of the government. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u182	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 43. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u183	In fact, this amendment is about the fact that the logic of the fine must not be primary, that you cut someone like a sausage, but that with the amount of the fine you prevent some acts that are not in accordance with the law. In fact, we are raising the height of the fines so that those who would like to meddle in the real estate area, and therefore do not have licenses, would not do so because they will simply be hit financially on the head too hard. That's what this is about. The logic of the globe needs to be changed that way. But with us, the logic of the globe, when someone in the tax system is usually taken in this way in this government, is changed when, I don't know, lex Zorčič omica or something like that, but not in such key matters. I hope you vote in favour at least this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u184	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 10 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 50. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendments and second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and 7 votes in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 50 of the amended bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u185	Thank you for saying one last time about this marriage. Look, absolutely not in Levica, nor personally can I support a law that reduces the level of education of people who are supposed to deal with some area, who are actually legitimizing that something will be counted against me for something that will not allow, opens a new gap for potential money laundering and, at the same time, with preventive fines already making it more impossible for me, I will say, criminal acts in this area. Something like that can only be suggested by someone who's not only absolutely politically irresponsible, I'll even hope to say, someone who's crazy. Thank you for your word. We will vote against it in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u186	It doesn't make sense. [[Laughing in the hall]] We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 43 votes against and 9 votes against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 14 of the agenda. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on Children's Rights regarding the procedure for reporting infringements. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u187	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On 19 December 2011, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the reporting of violations. The Protocol itself entered into force on 14 April 2014. By 9 February this year, 51 countries had signed the Protocol and 37 countries had ratified it. The Republic of Slovenia signed this Protocol among the first on 28 February 2012. The Protocol allows children to report infringements of the rights conferred on them by the Convention on the Rights of the Child and its two optional protocols. Children are among the most marginalized and vulnerable members of society who may be disproportionately serious and permanently affected within and outside the family. Childhood is a period of physical, emotional, mental and spiritual development, which can result in violations of children's rights that can cause lasting consequences first for the child and the family, and later for the social environment in which the family is moving, and then for society as a whole. Thus, the purpose of this Protocol is to ensure that children and their representatives have access to effective legal remedies at international level in the event of violations of their rights at national level. Infringement shall be communicated by the child or his legal representative or group of individuals. Since the signing of the Protocol, many NGOs have called on the Government to ratify it as soon as possible. In this regard, they pointed out in particular that the full implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child requires the provision of an appeal mechanism brought by this third optional protocol. By ratification, States Parties shall empower children as rights holders and allow them to exercise the right to a remedy at international level if violations of their rights cannot be resolved at national level. The need for ratification of the Protocol was also highlighted in its annual reports by the Ombudsman every year. Until recently, the Convention on the Rights of the Child was the only fundamental international human rights treaty on the basis of which rightholders, children under 18 years of age, had no opportunity to submit complaints or, as the UN system calls itself, a communication of violations of its provisions and the provisions of its two substantive select protocols. It should be noted that the Committee does not deal with complaints contrary to the child's greatest benefit, which is a general principle in accordance with Article 2 of the Protocol in its operation. It should also be pointed out in particular that the Republic of Slovenia has sought a strong protocol in the negotiations on the text of the Protocol, covering all the articles contained in the text adopted. The Republic of Slovenia is committed to the protection of children's rights and actively strives to implement and respect the Convention and its substantive select protocols. Slovenia should therefore adopt the Protocol in its entirety or, when ratifying the Protocol, should be subject to all the Articles. On this basis, we propose that the Republic of Slovenia, when depositing its instrument of ratification of the Protocol, communicate to the Secretary-General the declaration referred to in Article 12 and thereby recognise the competence of the Committee to receive and treat communications from States Parties concerning infringements of the obligations of the other State Party and do not make the declaration referred to in Article 13, paragraph 7, of the Protocol to limit the competence of the Committee with regard to rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child or its substantive select protocols. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Republic of Slovenia, together with seven other countries from all regions of the world, played a leading role in the negotiation of this Protocol. Since the signing of the Protocol in 2012, it has been almost six years, so I am happy that today the time will come when Slovenia will ratify the Optional Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u188	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. Following is a presentation of the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u189	Nicely greeted! Childhood is an experience we all share. Let us first experience it directly and later get a different view of it, for example in contact with our own children, grandchildren, and some through the exercise of our educational and educational mission. Through all these experiences, we learn that children are different, have different personal circumstances, needs, and desires. One thing in the world is common to all children, these are their rights. As early as 1948, the United Nations declared in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that childhood was entitled to special care and assistance. The international legal status of the child and the obligation of the international community to protect and promote children's rights were strengthened by the Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 20 November 1989. With 196 Parties, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is today a kind of universal map of children's rights. The voice of the children regarding respect for the provisions of the Convention and its two protocols on the prohibition of children's participation in armed conflicts and on the prohibition of the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography has been greatly strengthened by the adoption of the third Optional Protocol on the procedure for reporting violations, which we have ratified on our benches today. The Republic of Slovenia was in a group of eight countries from all regions of the world that played a leading role in the adoption of the Optional Protocol and were able to change the fact that by 2011 the Convention on the Rights of the Child was the only fundamental international human rights treaty that had no individual complaint mechanism envisaged. Also, through our country's efforts to adopt and implement the Protocol, access to effective legal remedies at international level has been made possible in the event of violations of their rights at national level, in addition to reporting and addressing individual violations, as well as carrying out investigations into serious or systematic violations of children's rights. In the SMC Group, we support the proposal for a law on ratification and we have endeavoured in the current mandate to adopt it as soon as possible. Also because after Slovenia's relatively early signature on 28 February 2012, Slovenia has been receiving recommendations and calls from both foreign and domestic civil society for some time now to do so. On a proposal from the coalition, a decision was adopted last March by the Committee on Foreign Policy recommending that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the other competent authorities, speed up the activities related to the earliest ratification of the Protocol. Relatively aware of the realization reminds us of the importance of coherence between internal and foreign policy processes in the accession to international initiatives for the credibility of our policy, especially in the field of human rights. But it is important that this year this year, when our country is first chairing the United Nations Human Rights Council, where children's rights are one of the most important priorities. Ratification of the Third Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child will significantly strengthen the voice of children and our advocacy for all the children of the world, which we apply globally, so we will of course support the proposal of the law in a uniform manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u190	I ask if there is any explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. First of all, I must say that we are done with the presentation of the views of the Group of Members. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. What explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Look, I have to take this, because I know what my colleague was reading has provoked me. We are probably so smart that we will all support the ratification of this Convention. Madam, in which I passed my final exam at the undergraduate school, at the time I had a baby who is now 25 years old, a deserving professor at the University of Ljubljana, colleague Renereva, recently said in an interview that she would remember this government by wire. If someone does not boast about human rights, it is definitely this government, it is the SMC, it is the Slovenian radical right that sits in this Parliament. Of course I will vote in favour, but there are many other things beyond this kind of ratification. We are currently living in a world that is largely at the level of political economy, at the level of the global economy based on slavery, contemporary slavery, trafficking in human beings, including child exploitation. I hope that Slovenia will also work in this area, whether it is a colleague of the Wolf at this ministry or someone else. Such stories need to be translated into practice and also spread. And you have to think about it when you're going shopping in Ikeo or somewhere else. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u192	[[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I hope you're listening carefully to what the Members of Parliament are saying. I hope you will also respond appropriately to various inappropriate comments and labels. This is your mission, and I ask you to take it to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u194	Before you heard me, I realized that it is not entirely worth giving reminders and similar things, because then we give more meaning to such matters than it would have been otherwise. There's nothing else I can say at this point. However, part of the interpretation was one that did not refer to the agenda item, at least that is what you all saw and all of you do when you explain, either on your own behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members. So I suggest we go to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 24th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 25. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA ON THE INTERNATIONAL ROAD TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS AND GOODS The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I'm putting pressure on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u195	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! For consideration and adoption, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on the international road transport of passengers and goods concluded on 21 September 2017 in Estonia. By signing the Agreement, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Armenia have arranged for the carriage of passengers and goods by road between the territories of the Contracting Parties, transit through their territories and to third countries, or from them, carried out by carriers established in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties. International road transport of passengers and goods in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement will be carried out on the basis of permits. The Agreement also defines the types of transport which are exempt from the system of licences, the common provisions, such as the tax provisions, the mass and dimensions of vehicles, equipment and other characteristics of vehicles, the control, obligations of carriers and infringements, cooperation and the Joint Committee, and the final provisions such as the entry into force and duration of the Agreement. In order to correctly implement and resolve the provisions of the Agreement, a Joint Committee consisting of representatives of the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties shall be established in accordance with Article 14 thereof. The Joint Committee shall meet at the request of one of the Parties and meetings shall be held alternately in the territory of one or the other Party. Ratification of the agreement does not require additional financial resources in the budget, nor does it require the issuance of new or amending existing rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-20-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u196	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the 25th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals of the Member and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 20. 3. 2018, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I inform you that in the event that any of the proposed decisions are taken at the meeting of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister who carries out the current business will participate in his reply. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of the Commissioner, Luke Mesca, concerning the spending of 1.2 billion euros to meet NATO's objectives for Slovenia. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 56. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, to Jerne Vrtovac's question on the upcoming challenges of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 44. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, to the question by Dr. Bojan Dobovška on the Government's action to put an end to corruption. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 43. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič on the question of Luke Mesca on the implementation of the delegation of powers from social work centres to the courts. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 44. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in relation to the advisory contracts. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc, to the question of access to dialysis centres in Notranjska. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc, to the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik concerning the establishment of a system for the authorisation of the sale of tobacco products. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present and 14 votes against 41. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič to the question of Mr Jana Mahnič on youth measures. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 14 votes in favour and 43 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of the question of the question of the question of the possibility of the construction of a second track without foreign capital. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 18 votes in favour and 41 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc, to the question of the Health Situation by Tomaž Lisca. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 17 votes in favour and 43 votes in favour. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health of Milojka Kolar Celarc and the Minister of Public Administration of Boris Koprivnik to Violet Tomić's question on restricting the freedom of speech of public servants. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 18 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I put to the vote the following decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Environment and Space Irene Majcen to the question of the question of Mr Mate Tašner Vatovec concerning the implementing legislation of the record of the right to water in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. I'm adjourning the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
