ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I inform you that Mr Leopold Grošelj, Member of the National Assembly, died in 2000-2004. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] Praise him! I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Felice Žiža by 11 a.m., Dr. Franc Trček, Miha Kordish, Ferenc Horvat, mag. Marko Koprivc, Željko Cigler, Ludmila Novak from 15:00 on and Matjaž Han from 13:00 on. I invited representatives of the State Election Commission and candidates and candidates for Members and Members to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! Dear Members! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 21 September 2018, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the agenda item or proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. Breakup. Just a moment, please, let's check it out. Please recheck to see if the devices are working. Don't they work? If they don't work, I'll take three minutes off. Let's move on to 10.07. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 10.04 p.m. and resumed at 10.07 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! To verify the functioning of the voting apparatus, we are going to a so-called test vote. Doesn't anyone else in the hall have a device? Mrs. Iva Dimic, isn't it working? Please make sure it works. I'm guessing it's working. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 of whom were in favour, none against. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Point of the agenda, it's on the proposal for a proposal for a decision on how to perform the functions of missions to the post of delegates who perform the function of the ministries. Since Dr. Mir Cerar, Mark Bandelli, Peter Jožef Česnik, Rudi Medved and Zdravko Počvalšek, with the appointment of ministers, have been given a mandate by the State Election Commission to the Assembly, with which she has decided which candidates and candidates have the right to replace Members who have served as Ministers. The decision of the State Election Commission was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. I also note that there are no applicants for discussion. With this we move to a vote and put to the vote the following draft decision: At a time when Members serving as ministers in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members cannot perform this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members from today instead of Dr. Mir Cerar Jani Möderndorfer, born on 3 October 1965, residing at Suhadolčanova ulica 85, Ljubljana; instead of Marka Bandellija Andrej Šušmelj, born 8 August 1965, residing at Cankarje street 20, Nova Gorica; instead of Peter Jožef Česnika Kociper, born on 17 July 1972, residing at Obaste 8, Ljubljana; instead of Rudija Medveda Nina Maurovic, born 2. 8. 1978, residing on 1 May 57, Hrastnik; instead of Zdravka Palivalska Gregor Židan, born 5 October 1965, residing on Ižanska cesta 170, Ljubljana. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I invite my fellow Members and colleagues to join us and take their seats. I wish my colleagues and colleagues to successfully carry out the work of MEPs and Members in the parliamentary benches. Dear Members, honourable Members, sincere congratulations. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary, the proposal recommended in relation to the problem of harmful and destructive measures against Slovenian entrepreneurs agreed in a coalition agreement, and the attacks on the threat of the Slovenian economy and on the welfare of all states. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 36 Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Anjo Bah Žibert. With regard to this proposal, the group of 25 Members and Members recommended that Mr Anjo Bah Žibert, with the first signed, request that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I would first like to give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u3	Nicely greeted! In order to convene an extraordinary meeting on the issue of harmful measures against Slovenian entrepreneurs arising from the coalition agreement, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with the signatures of the New Slovenia and the Slovenian National Party, have decided for a reason that individual measures, if implemented, could seriously endanger the Slovenian economy and consequently the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. At the Committee on the Economy, much has been said about the content of the coalition treaty. Some felt that it was premature to discuss the measures contained in the Coalition Treaty in order to discuss this only on the spot when the measures were already on the table. Others said that the coalition treaty was just a direction. Again, thirdly, to take it seriously and that it must be enforced. But the fact is, the coalition contract is signed, coordinated by six parties, and to talk about the measures that are in it and are harmful to the economy and also to citizens, it is necessary today, not when it is too late. Many times it has been said that tax changes must be announced in advance that the business environment must be predictable. Of course, we agree. But what did you do? It is by this coalition contract that you have also announced these measures and now you have a reason to make it happen in the future, which means that we will receive new taxes both for the economy and for the citizens. It is perfectly understandable that such a coalition contract has caused amazement and resentment by Slovenian entrepreneurs. Here we have to say that entrepreneurs have become very united. Probably the first time in the Republic of Slovenia. It is more than clear from the coalition agreement that the coalition with it also denies the fact that only a successful economy can provide sufficient resources for the functioning of our social state, that only with a successful economy will we have sufficient resources for both health care and education and for education, pensions and could still be listed. Finally, only a successful economy through jobs depends on the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The previous coalition of three parties has very often and very much praised that we have a good, solid economic growth of the Republic of Slovenia in recent years. Today, these three parties are part of this so-called enlarged coalition, and now more than evidently they intend to destroy those who have contributed the most to economic growth by means of these unreasonable measures. This is our economy, these are mostly Slovenian exporters. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we cannot fail to understand and approve such unreasonable actions. The biggest indignation among Slovenian entrepreneurs was the coalition commitment to include personal income from capital and rent in the income tax base. With regard to the consequences of the implementation of this commitment and the current arrangements for the taxation of capital gains, a great deal of ignorance and a great deal of deception have spread to the public. Under the current legislation, the payment of profits made by Slovenian entrepreneurs in their companies is taxed double. The company must first pay the income tax of legal persons whose rate is 19 %. If the entrepreneur also wants to pay this profit, he must also pay a capital profit tax of 25%. If we look at the case, that means €39.25 tax on 100 Euros of generated profit. If it is agreed under a coalition agreement on the inclusion of capital income and income on the basis of an income assessment, the majority of profits will be taxed at a 50% rate, which means that EUR 59,5 of the tax will have to be paid per 100 euro of the generated profit, or that the actual taxation of the profits generated will be almost 60%. The taxation of profits will thus be almost as high as the so-called evasion tax under the Tax Procedure Act, which we know is 70 %. It is sad that coalition parties are classified as Slovenian entrepreneurs in almost the same category as taxpayers. Higher taxes will result in a number of departures from Slovenian companies abroad, many of which have already spoken about. In a survey conducted by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 56% of craftsmen are considering moving their business abroad. There were a thousand 540 craft involved in this survey. However, the proposed change in the taxation of capital gains will not only affect businesses, it will also affect natural persons, and when they sell real estate when renting their apartments, and also those who have saved for many years, to which the State has not least encouraged them. One of the concrete coalition commitments, which will entail additional tax burdens, is also an increase in the contribution rate for disabled and pension insurance for employers by the end of their term of office at the rate of 0.8 per cent of the raise for employers per year. The fact is that both the contribution of employers and employers is the total cost of the wage burden paid by the employer, which means that the mass of labour costs will be increased, and that workers will have absolutely nothing to do with it. In a survey carried out by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 99% of craft replied that they were higher net remuneration for the relief of wages and that the worker would receive a higher net payment on equal gross wages. This measure certainly does not go to the entrepreneurs. Other measures are agreed in the Coalition Treaty, which may constitute a direct financial burden for Slovenian entrepreneurs. I will only point out a few of these: the abolition of supplementary health insurance and the transfer to compulsory health insurance, long-term care insurance, the rise in the minimum wage of 4,5 % per year, the property and property tax, the establishment of a lower rate of corporate income tax to 5%. The first problem of the coalition contract is harmful measures for Slovenian entrepreneurs, while the other problem that arose in this regard is insults, false accusations of economists by members of the Left. On 30 August, Mr Mesec asked how he commented on Akrapovič's statement that, due to taxes as enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, net balance sheet profits would move into a more predictable business environment, he replied: “I think this is more blackmail and an excuse, otherwise it is nothing but tax evasion.” For the MEP of the Moon, therefore, someone who has started his activities in the garage, someone who has spent years investing in development, someone who employs more than a thousand people, and last but not least someone who has proved himself on the world market, even though it comes from a small country such as Slovenia, a tax laxator. Ambassador Miha Kordish threatened even nationalisation on the social network Facebook. Such statements by officials are completely inappropriate and must be shielded from them. Therefore, in the SDS, we recommended that other coalition parties be given the opportunity to distance themselves from these hostile ideas and attacks, and not least to support the development of the Slovenian economy, but unfortunately you voted against our recommendations yesterday on the committee. If we want Slovenia's development breakthrough, if we want young people not to go abroad to stay in Slovenia, because here we see the opportunity to develop their talents, to develop – if we want to actually have enough money for social, health, education, pensions, and whatever you want, we need a well-functioning economy, we need an economy. In order for the economy to function well, however, it needs a well competitive, business and tax environment. Therefore, we prefer to listen to those who create. Why? Because this will enable prosperity for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and because this will also enable the development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u4	Thank you, Your Honor, for your explanation. At the same time, in order to further explain the proposal, I would like to make a recommendation to the representative of the proposaler, Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much, distinguished Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Mr Minister, Secretary of State, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The reasons for calling this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly are in the Slovenian Constitution. I'm thinking mostly of Article 2 here. We all know it: “Slovenia is a legal and social state.” But the best social policy, you will surely agree, is that policy that enables good jobs, which allows everyone to develop all their potentials, so that each individual can develop all their intellectual and other potentials within them. It is normal that we have analysed the coalition agreement, unfortunately not the treaty, is a coalition agreement, and from this coalition agreement we have signed a request for this meeting of the National Assembly that if this happens, what is enshrined in the coalition agreement, it is poorly written to the Slovenian social state, the Slovenian entrepreneurship. The second reason is also the hostile rhetoric towards the Slovenian economy, especially to Slovenian entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, we have been deeply concerned by the Hujska tone, the proliferation of non-truths, impeccable political culture, populism, tendency and, above all, unacceptable hate speech to entrepreneurs. This hate speech must be strongly condemned, and we are also concerned by the frank call for the establishment of another socio-economic system, and by all means in a non-democratic manner. My colleague Susanna has already mentioned the call for nationalization. This is an exclusive example of the requirement to destroy the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. I am referring here to Article 33 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to private property. Politics must respond to such rhetoric. Yesterday, we also spoke on the Committee on the Economy about economic freedom. The annual report 2018 on economic freedom of the world was published just yesterday. When I mentioned earlier that it is the best social policy that creates good jobs to make this a little more concrete, it is the policy that makes it possible for economic freedom. According to Friedman, one of the three Nobel laureates who began to measure economic freedom in 1996. According to Friedman, economic freedom is the first condition for all other freedoms, including political freedoms, and is the first condition for greater economic competitiveness. Colleagues and colleagues, today we would like the debate to take place in this direction, how to ensure the greatest possible economic freedom and competitiveness in Slovenia. Let us answer the question whether we are satisfied with Members and Members that Slovenia has landed 71st among 162 countries where the last place is Venezuela. If the answer is yes, we are satisfied with it, then we have nothing to do. Second question. Let us answer whether we are satisfied that Slovenia is 37th on the competitiveness scale of the Swiss International Institute for Management Development. Are we satisfied with this? It is true, I am proud that in the last year we have advanced six cities along the competitiveness scale. Are we happy to be 37th out of 63 countries? If the answer is yes, then we have nothing to do. New Slovenia is not satisfied with this position. Why not? Because we can do more. We can do better than that. Mostly our young, our educated. I am very concerned about Gallup's research, which says that during last year, 54% of the young Slovenians expressed their desire to move out of Slovenia. Why? Data is the result of the response of young people and is the perception or belief and experience that hard work, education and effort do not come to anywhere. In this direction, we would like this situation to be rectified in Slovenia, including today's debate. We are at the beginning of this mandate, we have many options, only political will is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on the Economy on 25 September 2018. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. I give the floor to President Gregor Peric for the presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u7	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I am reporting on a proposal for a recommendation that we considered yesterday, 25 September, on the Committee on the Economy as a working body. In addition to the proposal for a recommendation, the Committee was provided with material or an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and a letter from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the opinion of the Government. No amendments were tabled on the proposal itself. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Ministry of Finance, Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, Chamber of Commerce, Club of Slovenian Entrepreneurs and Legal and Legislative Services participated. Following the introductory explanation, the representatives of the applicants, as has already been said, explained the purpose of the proposal. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further pointed out that the content of the proposal for a recommendation also concerns persons not covered by Article 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with regard to point 2 of the proposal, the recommendation explained that the service considers that the description of the measure is not appropriate. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained in detail the Government's opinion and stressed that all stakeholders, both the economy and the social partners, would be involved in the process of taking possible measures. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance pointed out that a reform of the taxation system would be necessary. Of course, we also gave the floor to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Club of Slovenian Entrepreneurs. They stressed that Slovenian entrepreneurs, craftsmen and exporters, as well as investors, are in need of a predictable and stable business environment and a suitable tax system. The debate followed, very substantive, and I must say that it is also very correct, for which I thank my colleagues and colleagues. Questions and answers were raised in the debate. Finally, in accordance with Articles 171 and 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on both parts of the proposal and did not adopt them. This concludes the consideration of the proposal on the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I would like to give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u9	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, others present, thank you for your floor. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the proposal for a recommendation submitted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in its opinion 12. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It has prepared an opinion which I will present below. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of its responsibility for the well-being of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the coalition agreement agreed by the parties to the ruling coalition is merely a guide for the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In any event, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will involve and involve all stakeholders, both the economy and the social partners, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Association of Managers of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Slovenia, the Club of Slovenian Entrepreneurs and others. This will ensure that measures are geared towards upgrading an effective business environment for growth and business development. In order to achieve the objective of strengthening the Slovenian economy and its competitiveness, it is particularly important to have an appropriate business environment. Factors that enable business objectives or profits to be achieved are: regulated rule of law, regulated infrastructure, predictable business and political environment, access to markets, skills of the labour force and the complexity of administrative procedures. One of the most important factors and one of the tools for stimulating the economy as a whole is tax policy. In doing so, it should be stressed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware that the challenges in the field of tax measures will not be met unilaterally. It will therefore take a deliberate approach to achieving the objectives, based on appropriate analyses and in particular by restructuring the burden of public duties. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will endeavour to further coordinate all possible measures arising from the coalition agreement with all expert and other stakeholders. The operation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will aim to create a strong, open and innovative economy. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined paragraph 1 of the proposal. It notes that, in accordance with Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the recommendation can only apply to the work of the national authorities. The proposal for a recommendation also concerns coalition parties, their officials and the conclusion of a coalition contract. With regard to point 2 of the proposal, however, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure that, in its ongoing constructive, dialogue with economic operators and all other stakeholders, it seeks solutions that will contribute both to the Slovenian economy and to all citizens. I also add that the Expert Council for a competitive and stable business environment has been set up these days. The Council will act as a consultative body with the Government's proposed and necessary measures in areas falling within the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. The first is the delegation of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Master Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u11	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Secretary of State, Colleagues, Colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are convinced that the call for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is justified and we express our concern about the coalition contract of the left six because its measures indicate additional burden and obstruction of the Slovenian economy, which is also harmful for a wider society. The fiscal council also noted the inadequacy and harmfulness of the content of the coalition contract and the measures envisaged. The Slovenian Democratic Party's emissary group was deeply concerned about the hate speech of the individual members of the Left, the so-called supra-coalic party of the government of Marjan Šarc, to entrepreneurs, the proliferation of non-truths, impeccable political culture, populism, even the establishment of a social economic system and the threat of renationalisation. The hate speech against entrepreneurs is inadmissible for the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that the damage has already occurred because the content of the coalition agreement has made economic operators, entrepreneurs and investors uncertain about the future business environment. Investments started to stop, entrepreneurs started thinking differently. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that the new government wants the parties of the List of Marjan Šarca, Social Democrats, Desus, SMC, Alenka Bratušek Party and the Superstrange Coalition of the Left with unreasonable taxes, the headless growth of administration and various privileges, the increased bureaucratic obstacles and the strengthening of the centralism of entrepreneurs to suppress or even expel them. We are looking at the economy more broadly in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The shareholders of the economy are all employees of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the management of the company and the owners of the companies. The Slovenian Democratic Party has always been on the side of economic operators and has listened to their initiatives. We have also placed some in our programme, which is designed to create an enabling environment for the development of the economy. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that only a well-functioning economy can offer added value to jobs. The consequences of the additional burden on the economy, as indicated by the Coalition Treaty, will be felt by all. We believe that we should create favourable conditions for the Slovenian economy, which would also be attractive for foreign investors. The rise in minimum wage and social transfers sounds attractive, but the best social policy is creating new jobs. We believe that entrepreneurs are justifiably disappointed and concerned about the coalition contract, because it represents a serious threat and a serious attack on the economy. The composition of the government, which consists of all parties that have already participated in the previous government, the content of the coalition contract, the statement by Prime Minister Marjan Sarc and some ministers indicate that the policy of the former government will continue, i.e. the policy of additional indebtedness and additional tax and administrative measures for the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We also knew the policy of additional debt and additional burdens during the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek. During the four years of its mandate, the Government of Mira Cerar has implemented less than 5% of the demands of the economies, showing a clear attitude of the government towards the economy, entrepreneurs and those who create added value, filling the Slovenian budget, filling the health and pension bills. The State budget, created primarily by the economy and by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia by paying taxes, is likely to be used by the current government of Marjan Sarca again for the current needs and for the expenditure of the country and less and less for the new investments that have driven growth and economic development. Although the previous government claimed to have taken measures to tackle economic growth and reduce the country's public deficit, it is undeniable that economic growth is due to external factors, to the growth of demand in our economic partners, which significantly boost exports, to the policy of extremely low interest rates of the European Central Bank, which promotes investment growth and economic recovery in the euro area. I have a feeling that anyone who gets out of the country on average is being punished. It is therefore quite expected that young and ambitious students will go abroad. Instead of limiting the entrepreneurial initiative at every step, they should be invested and the country should leave the economy more freedom. We are a country that taxes high income at a higher tax rate than any other developed country. They would only point out the case of migrant workers in Austria, which clearly indicate that FURS is sending them additional payment sheets for the payment of additional taxes. This clearly indicates that migrant workers who are in Austria are not taxed twice, but that they pay only the difference from the tax they paid in Austria to the tax they have to pay in Slovenia because the tax environment in Slovenia is less encouraging and higher than in the neighbouring country of Austria. They would point out only a few new burdens or an increase in the existing burdens of the former government, which in fact consists of the current government. All words suggest that this policy of additional debt, additional tax measures, will continue under the current government. Under the Government of Mira Cerar, we received an increase in corporate income tax from 17% to 19%; an increase in the burden on farmers on cadastral income; a higher rate of value added tax adopted in 2014 through a temporary anti-crisis measure in a durable measure, a higher rate of 20% to 22% and a lower rate of 8,5% to 9,5%; a freeze on the coordination of income benefits with inflation; the introduction of tax rebates; the introduction of valuations that imposed a financial and administrative burden on the performance of personal ancillary work; the introduction of compulsory registration of bicycles with an auxiliary engine; the introduction of two new duties to finance the government project for the construction of the second railway line of Divaca-Koper; and the introduction of a taxiway to heavy goods vehicles; the introduction of taxes on the decommissioned vehicle. Maybe we forgot one. The continuation of additional measures and burdens will cause considerable economic and social damage. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 has more than EUR 1 and a half billion in revenue from tax revenues than in 2014. There's still a lot to spare. For example, the non-recovery of tax debt is still higher than EUR 1.3 billion; European funds are among the worst in Slovenia's history; the second financial perspective allows Slovenia to draw more than EUR 3 billion in European funds. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the tax burden in Slovenia is too high, which is also argued by research and comparison of data with other European Union countries. Reducing tax burdens also means increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and higher consumption. Today, in Slovenia, pensioners and the middle class live most heavily due to high tax burdens. Today, a thousand litres of heating oil costs 200 euros more than a thousand litres of heating oil in Ljubljana, Kranj, Maribor, Škofje Loki. The letter of oil is on average cheaper in Austria for 15 cents than in Slovenia. Tax and excise policies are wrong and unreasonable. We still have much less foreign investment compared to neighbouring countries. For one foreign investment, the National Assembly in the previous term had to adopt a special law, which speaks eloquently enough that the economic environment in Slovenia is not friendly and not attractive to foreign investors. During the previous government, several foreign multinational companies left Slovenia and settled in Zagreb, Belgrade, Budapest and Bratislava. This also reduces the inflow to the payment of the Slovenian budget and thus reduces the supply of both pension and health bills. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that Slovenia needs an enabling environment, a well-standing economy, as many private initiatives as possible, a favourable housing situation for the creation of family policy and an opportunity for development. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth must be known in the wallets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the previous mandate of the SDS Group, we proposed that the value added tax should be reduced to a pre-crisis level, i.e. in general, the value added tax rate should be reduced to 20% to a rate of 8.5% and the added reduced rate of 5%, which would include products that are essential for people's lives. We have also proposed a change in the income scale, namely a reduction in the rates in all income classes by two percentage points and an increase in the general income allowance from the current EUR 3 000 300 to EUR 3 000 500, which would give the worker an average wage of EUR 33 more per month, amounting to almost EUR 400 more per year. We have always advocated in the Slovenian Democratic Party that citizens must have higher net available income and that our proposal to reduce tax burdens would make a positive contribution to this. We are in the Slovenian Democratic Party for higher wages of workers, but not at the expense of the burden of the economy, but at the expense of reducing tax burdens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that two key recommendations were not adopted on yesterday's Committee on the Economy. I will repeat these key recommendations on behalf of the Group today. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition parties accept the invitation of representatives of economic organisations to form social dialogue and jointly agree on a new content of the coalition treaty, which will not destroy and impede Slovenian development and the Slovenian economy. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the officials of the ruling coalition refrain from the untruths, deceptions, threats and insults directed at Slovenian entrepreneurs and cease to threaten or attack the economic development of Slovenia and thus the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the coalition treaty is neither a coincidence nor a result of the blackmail of one party; it is a reflection of the situation in the six parties to the government coalition that have agreed on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u12	Thank you for your opinion, Member. He next presents Mr Robert Pavšič's position on behalf of the Marjan Sarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good day to you all! Regardless of the introductory words of the motions for today's meeting, this moment is a crucial question of why we are here. This question can be covered by dialectically or metaphysically. Dialectic in terms of facing opinions, they will be diametric in any way, depending on which way they come from – colleague Mahnic is already laughing – or metaphysical in terms of responding to both the existence and the present. Why such philosophies and walking around hot porridge? Because the subject is also excluded from context and reality. The reason we are sitting here today is the wrong interpretation of the coalition agreement, the legitimate concern of entrepreneurs. Of course, all questions about the future legal framework and tax legislation are always important, but focus on the facts. First, it is necessary to distinguish between the income of natural persons and the income of legal persons. If we start with natural persons, i.e. with people, then statistics say that the distribution of net wages in Slovenia is the lowest among the countries of the European Union. According to analysts, this is due to a very progressive taxation of wages. In our so-called models, such as Germany or France, the difference between the worst and the best paid is greater, and Gini's chart shows the same. The reason for the highest egalitarianism in the European Union is, according to analysts, the same – the progressiveness of wage taxation and also the reason for the lower productivity at all in the entrepreneurship segment, because it does not stimulate a greater level of work. But it's just statistics. What is statistics, we can ask ourselves. According to the definition of some mathematicians, this is a great lie forged on small truths. And these little truths are what we need to follow in restructuring tax legislation. It is necessary to relieve work in such a way that those who work more and better will also be better paid. And it's not just one thing to be an employee or an employer. The burden must be shared without significant damage on either side. Therefore, the claim and question of today's reference is not just one sentence in the coalition agreement, it is much broader and, above all, more complex. Why? It also refers to the OECD findings, which reminds us that the Slovenian tax market, the income system, is not sustainable in the long term, in particular due to the projected demographic changes. Even today, we need to think about having several more older ones in a few decades to care absolutely for. They also warn us that we already have people who have worked hard for 40 years and more today, but they are receiving miserable pensions that we have people who are also working hard, who can't survive from month to month, and we have young people who make a heartwarming wish, and they can't find them. We also have more capable and working entrepreneurs. They're all interconnected and interdependent. And despite all the good wages and economic conditions, the purchasing power in Slovenia is lower than, say, the one in Portugal or Greece where they had even worse crises than we did. The reasons and the proposed measures, according to the OECD, are in the face of excessive wage burdens and too low capital burdens. In Slovenia, a large proportion of income is generated by social security contributions, which are burdened at flat rates, but could be diverted to ensure the social security of employees through income. At the same time, there are also opportunities for tax restructuring on capital income at individual level. This would result in a redistribution of tax burdens and other measures that would be comprehensive and, I stress, coordinated with all partners, ensuring both tax sustainability and better net remuneration of employees. Such measures, which would also stimulate employers to pay their employees better wages. The overall tax restructuring will thus have to be fiscally neutral and in line with the fiscal rule and budgetary obligations of the State. It is only at this point that both the physical and legal segments of the economy, entrepreneurship or crafts are linked, that we can only deal with individual small truths from statistics and look for solutions that will be truly best for all, with potentially higher capital burdens and potentially lower labour burdens, which we will first coordinate with employers, associations, unions, ministries, governments and others, and finally confirm in this institution. Only by such balanced measures must we provide a sustainable system of funding for the country, namely health, safety, education and the environment. It is therefore a matter of talking about people paying 50% of taxes or even more, inappropriately, prematurely, misleadingly and, above all, unrealistically. There were no plans or measures on such a burden. Of course, indications would apply if capital gains, pensions and other capital revenues were simply converted into an existing system. And that would be extremely harmful. And that's what the opposition is proposing, or putting in our mouth. At the same time, it invites us to jointly adopt recommendations following the conclusion of a new coalition agreement. In the argument of the reference it looks and detects a concern that is legitimate but unfounded. None of the measures listed in this form have been addressed either by speech or by purpose. The discussion was not even about tax reform, but about comprehensive and intersectoral tax restructuring. This would keep what's in the system of good and change, which hinders development. There is no point in just taking, and it has to be given. What does the coalition agreement on challenges and actions in this area say? To strengthen the competitiveness of the Slovenian industry; to simplify procedures with a view to faster decision-making; to relieve wages; to regulate the labour market and working relationships; to promote economic democracy and modern forms in the field of entrepreneurship; to promote such an educational system that is compatible with the needs of sustainable and development-oriented entrepreneurship; to create an environment for technological breakthroughs and so on. Some of these measures were proposed to us before this meeting yesterday at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and in fact confirm both the findings of analysts and the OECD and the commitments in the coalition agreement. Traders and entrepreneurs expect, among other things, that the labour market needs to be regulated; that health legislation and the resulting funding system of hospital stocks need to be changed; that the tax system needs to be changed; that an education system that has more hearing for the needs of the economy needs to be changed; and that administrative barriers need to be modernised and facilitated. Completely legitimate requirements that come from practice and are in full harmony with the coalition agreement. They need to listen in detail and start working without delay, as there will be a great deal of cooperation in the preparation of legislative frameworks covering such urgent tax, labour, social and other legislation and related acts, and will allow for greater flexibility, competitiveness, efficiency and efficiency, of course, with the knowledge that we are all together in this process. With responsibility, understanding the situation and challenges, we will deal with all these areas, but with soundness of mind, as we are aware that rapid changes are most often the worst. The solutions must also be comprehensive. For if a single sentence that upsets the applicants and is taken from the context were only to be translated into today's system, it might actually have the effects that the proponents paint on us. I can only guess whether such a catastrophic picture is a reflection of true fear or merely a collection of political points by misleading and bridging fear. In view of the proposal's argument, I'm afraid it's more different. Only some flat-rate fears, flat-rate assessments and mixing of apples and pears are listed. In the LMŠ Group, we therefore did not support the recommendations on the Committee yesterday because they are not in line with the actual situation, because they are not legal, as the Legislative and Legal Service has seen, and because they are completely unfounded, as the opinion of the parent committee also shows. Besides, they're unprofessional. But we will listen with all our responsibility and attention to our fears, and these, we know, are not on the outside, but they are on the inside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u15	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Some of the content of the coalition agreement on planned changes in the tax area has been quite upsetting for individuals and the media in recent days. While these changes are based on the OECD recommendations, they follow a general conclusion that Slovenia's taxes on labour income are high and capital revenues are below average. However, the atmosphere has also finally warmed up the excited statements or so-called provocations of some supporters of change, which have aroused quite a nuisance in certain people. One particular point was made out of the turbulent controversy that developed in the public on this subject. Capital and economic representatives pay close attention to their interests and do not miss the opportunity to protect them. Their communication strategies can be proud of themselves. Even before the government took up the mandate and began solving a number of open issues, they succeeded in putting their agenda high on the scale with a capable media response. For this move, the power from this point of view is only to congratulate them. They've proven they know how to make iron while it's hot. Social Democrats can only wish that representatives of other social groups could be able to represent their interests so effectively. Public controversy has also had political consequences. The right opposition seized the opportunity, marked the planned measures as harmful and destructive and brought the labels of attacks and threats to the Slovenian economy and in strong concern for the well-being of all citizens demanded today's debate in the National Assembly. It is expected that today they will try to advise us on the issue of shy birds and low taxes, calculate averages, scare Venezuela or at least compare us with countries we do not want to be in. Unless they were honest at the debate yesterday in their agreement that we should choose more words, we should provoke less in our statements and actions. Members and Members of the Social Democrats, who support the planned course of action in the coalition agreement, must point out in this debate what has been shown by a more in-depth public debate after biliary provocations and hysterical reactions have withdrawn from numbers, analyses, clarifications and comparisons. We must ensure, as the public debate has shown, that people in Slovenia respect entrepreneurial mentality, that we appreciate courage, determination and excellence, and that no one intends to harm those who, through their efforts and risks, drive economic growth and create new jobs. We have also proved this by our recent visit to the Celje International Fair, where we have listened to the proposals and have also participated in the debate. Today, too, we must reiterate that the debate is the only way forward on this subject through social dialogue. Despite unnecessary provocations, there is no need for administrative accounting operations. Tax changes, as has been the case in recent years, are adopted after a dialogue with all stakeholders. For a stable economic environment, we will do the most if we listen to each other and calm the debate. A greater predictability of less uncertainty. This was the main requirement of representatives of the economy. Thousands of workers in unstable jobs also want more certainty. We plan changes for them in the coalition contract, too. Through dialogue and coordinated solutions packages, the situation can be improved for everyone. Yesterday's debate on the Committee has shown that it is in everyone's interest to be predictable and that we all want a dialogue that will lead to a coordinated package of measures that will enable us to bring more certainty and predictability into the Slovenian economic environment and maintain incentives for those who want to be at home in this environment and also to succeed in global markets. This does not mean that we should depart from the coalition agreement as requested by the proposal for recommendations, but let us also be aware that each coalition contract has objectives and is not hampered. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Together, we must find that we are becoming a mature country, that people take politics and politics seriously, even though politics itself is never.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Gregor Perič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u17	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! Let me start by saying that in the SMC Group, in adopting measures to achieve the objectives and direction of the coalition agreement, we will strive to achieve broad coordination with the various stakeholders in order to ensure, for the first time, the competitiveness of an economy based on a predictable and stable business environment; secondly, the stability of public finances, taking into account the fiscal rule, which is the basis for ensuring long-term stable prosperity for all. We advocate the adoption of such measures as will ensure fiscal sustainability, which will take into account medium- and long-term fiscal objectives and will not jeopardise the business environment. We will also help in the SMC Group to find optimal solutions that, on the one hand, will not needlessly and additionally burden economies and give rise to high economic growth, and on the other hand, we will always have the public sector and employees in front of us. It is crucial that we maintain a stable business environment in our country, with a clear focus on modern, knowledge-based technologies with high added value, those that are environmentally and human-friendly and sustainable, as this can be the only true basis for a successful economy. We will also try to achieve this through key economic priorities and objectives in the new mandate. These include: maintaining a competitive business environment, drawing on European funds, managing state assets successfully, increasing exports, increasing the added value of employees and increasing the gross average wage per employee. We will, however, look for solutions that will certainly not lead to tax burdens on households and the economy, as such measures would, in particular, lead to long-term macroeconomic imbalances and deterioration of the fiscal situation of the country. We understand the concerns of Slovenian entrepreneurs, and at the same time we believe that the alarm was unnecessary and that the assessments are in particular somewhat premature, as they need to be based on complete information and measures taken. On the other hand, statements against Slovenian entrepreneurs and the Slovenian economy will not do anything good in the search for dialogue and agreement between politics and the economy and are considered unacceptable and socially harmful. Therefore, we feel that there should certainly be more patience and trust on all sides in our society. We advocate a patient and reasoned dialogue with all the social partners. If this dialogue is to be successful, it will have to take place directly between partners, not through the media. We also expect that the discussions on economic and social issues will take place with all the social partners in the Economic and Social Council, where they actually belong. In addition, the government of Dr Mir Cerar has already made progress in many macro-economic indicators, including the decline in the number of unemployed persons, the increase in gross minimum wage, the increase in net average wages, the increase in the average pension, the reduction of the country's external debt, the growth of GDP per capita, the growth of exports and the growth of foreign direct investment. The balance of public finances is also an important achievement. In this context, tax policy must create good conditions for the economy, as we help not only the economy, but all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We will also aim to make further positive progress in these financial indicators by implementing future measures, as has been the case with the SMC. And once again, let me point out, we have no intention of wiping anyone out and banishing anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u19	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! With the right - hand session, we may need to look at history for a moment. In 2013, at the beginning of the second Janša government, SDS President Janez Janša tweeted that there would be no technical government, but a troika would come after it and an early election. Similarly, his financial minister, Janez Šuštaršič, was pessimistic, who predicted that the arrival of the troika was inevitable and that the sooner we admit it, the better for us. The same policy in the orbit of SDS, Dimitrij Rupel and Matej Lahovnik, who said that there was something very wrong in Slovenia to knock on the door, but they can only help us with forced administration and external pressure. As far as this situation goes, we know. In fact, this policy has done a great deal of damage to the very Slovenian economy, on whose behalf this same right all the time says it speaks. Slovenia's policy and its intimidation have led to another recession. After the 2010 turnout, real economic growth, we then slipped back into the recession, which meant bankruptcy of many businesses and entrepreneurs, which meant the forgiveness of many workers and workers and which ultimately damaged those taxpayers, on whose behalf the same right again says it speaks. Let's just remember that it led together to a very controversial stress test by Slovenian banks two months after the European Auditor found that Slovenian banks are capital-appropriate, he targeted 1 and a half billion losses to these same banks, which we paid to Slovenian taxpayers, who are always saying they are talking about. Well, last time this government fell, there was no threesome, and economic growth slowly improved. Today, we are fortunately in a situation where there is no right in power to continue to lead harmful policies in this fear, but we have the opportunity to reject and continue their advice, which has already proved to be completely flawed and harmful several times, as this government has done in the coalition contract. Those measures, which the right hand says should lead directly to Venezuela, Cuba or North Korea, are in fact the following: raise the minimum wage in 2019 and 2020 by 4% and half per year. I don't know who can object. There has been almost economic growth in Slovenia for five years and many workers and workers have been working for less than €700 per year. Last time we counted a few months ago, there were as many as 121 000 in the private and public sectors in Slovenia. I think that the only right thing the government can do in this mandate is to make the final well-being enjoyed by the majority of the country now leads to those who have been cut off from it in recent years and who, despite their hard work, do not deserve even enough for any decent survival. Another measure against which they protest so furiously and say that they will bring us to Venezuela, Cuba or North Korea is to raise contributions to pensions. I think that consensus is in this political space, even the right one agrees that pensioners in Slovenia live poorly. More than half of them live below the calculated threshold of risk poverty, and this government has set itself to correct the percentage of the rate from 57% to 63% of the pensioner's salary and to raise the minimum pension above the threshold of risk poverty, that is to say EUR 620. If we are to do so, we know that there will also be a need to repair the inflows to the pension register. The pension register is still at a negative level, and it is mainly due to policies that have infused its tides in the past. Until 1996, the same rate of contribution applied to employers and employees, amounting to 15% and a half for pensions. It was then reduced to 8.85% for employers, which is still in force today. As compensation, a tax was imposed on paid salaries. This was abolished in 2008 and now we have in fact a pension allowance in the minus since contributions have been reduced and abolished. It is high time that we want to ensure a decent life for pensioners, that we correct these contributions, which is also defined in the Coalition Treaty. The next thing is a premium on transactions in tax havens. Look, I think whenever we had Panama papers, reports from various Cayman Islands and so on, we all said in plenary in this National Assembly that one of the biggest places in modern capitalism is that we have a fully liberalised global financial system, tax havens even in the European Union, where those who want to avoid paying taxes can easily hide these taxes from paying in their home countries. When a government writes in a coalition contract that it will try to limit this, the right one protestes and says that it will lead us to Cuba, North Korea or Venezuela. And the last thing they protest most furiously is the taxation of income from capital and income at the same rates as taxes on income and labour. Until 2006, the same income tax was applied in Slovenia for both. We have a so-called step-by-step key tax The more you earn, the more you contribute to work, so if you earn up to €8,000 a year you pay 16% of the tax, between 8 and 20,000 you pay 27% and so on, and you pay 50% of the tax for those incomes over 70,000 net annual income base. This is known by all developed countries, virtually all European countries, most OECD countries, most European Union countries and most countries, including income from income and capital. There is absolutely no moral or any other excusable reason for someone who rents apartments to be taxed differently or lower than someone who lives on his job. He's not here. This arrangement took place with us until 2006, and this did not result in any economic cataclysm. On the contrary. Just by 2006, this country had developed economically normally, and then everything went wrong to face this lost decade that we had experienced. What we wanted to do in Levica, when we proposed these proposals to the minority government under the leadership of Marjan Šarc, is to do the following, not to waste another favourable period of economic growth, as was the case between 2004 and 2008. At that time, the economy grew rapidly, and instead of trying to develop breakthroughs, the taxes were completely irresponsiblely reduced, allowing Taiwanisation, providing such and different privileges to the richest, and at the end of 2008, when the crisis struck, we paid them all citizens and citizens 10 years. Now after ten years, I think it is enough that we have received this lesson, that the system needs to be repaired at least about the situation we had before, is true somewhere in 2006, as far as the tax system is concerned, as regards contributions from different layers of the population. And this coalition contract with these proposals is nothing more than that. Whoever says that this will lead us to Venezuela, North Korea or Cuba is only doing this for fear, simply to protect entrepreneurs and others against this government, especially the minority partner of Levica, and to spread lies. Look, I've recently heard from a friend of mine, an entrepreneur, that he heard from one of his business partners that Luka Moon and Levica were supposed to propose 100 percent capital taxation. Such things spread around and, of course, spread for a certain purpose. With a view to discrediting, with a view to scaring, but in fact, this is nothing more than a very vulgar attempt to defend the privileges of some. On the OECD you can see a graphical display of who in Slovenia receives the most income from rent and dividend. You won't believe it, far the most, almost half of the population gets the upper percentage. And this upper percentage of the population is now taxed almost half as much as the rest, or those who live on their jobs. In defense of the privileges of this upper percentage of the population, you have even launched a campaign that we have been accompanying in the last month. I am pleased that the minority government did not succumb to this pressure that the right-wing proposals on the committee were rejected yesterday. I believe that it will also be reasonable to bring them into practice in the coming months and years, to correct our tax system, which has been adapted in recent years for the sake of the sand, by starting to provide prosperity for everyone and allowing this country's developmental breakthrough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u20	Your Honor, thank you for your position. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats have the word mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u21	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! I especially welcome all those of you who are in this calling today for the first time among us. Welcome! I am sure that we have gathered at this meeting only to give the Slovenian public a very clear message, especially to Slovenian entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and this is that we will not allow the business environment to deteriorate. We realize that this money doesn't grow on a tree, that money has to be created first, it has to be created with work. Only when we create can the state take part in this tax, which is then used for various purposes and things, from roads, plumbing, schools, hospitals, to social compensation and other matters offered by the social state. If anything, it is in this house that we should be most aware that the best social policy is a well-functioning economy. If we are aware that the Constitution states that Slovenia is a social state, then it must be clear that the social state is an equally good economy. What we need to ask ourselves is how to get to a good economy. Many who have discussed these things in these days by the economy have repeated and said the following things: we need a predictable environment, we need qualified workers and we need reasonable taxes. Of these three things, unfortunately, entrepreneurs and craftsmen have only one thing, and these are qualified and good workers. The environment is absolutely unpredictable, and we also have no reasonable taxes. As a result, more and more young people are leaving the country. We can blind ourselves, we can make sure we're good and incredible, but statistics are unforgivable. And not the statistics of the opposition, not the statistics of the right opposition, but the statistics of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that in recent years, as many as 8 thousand people under the age of 40 have left this country. These were well-educated people in whom this country invested thousands of euros in the education process and now these services will benefit other countries instead of Slovenia. I'm sure we're witnessing a brain drain at that time that we may not even be aware of. Another issue that may have occurred when I listen to the left side of this House seems to us sometimes to forget that Slovenia is not an isolated piece of the world, that we are involved in global flows, that these global flows have an impact on us as well. If anything, people are extremely adaptable creatures who will always go where they can live better, better quality lives. And then we come up with a comparison of the Commissioner Mesca, who recently spoke on the committee and said something like this: "The entrepreneur Akrapovič must be grateful that he can even work in Slovenia and must pay for it. Because if Mr Akrapovič tried to do this in Afghanistan, which does not have such infrastructure as Slovenia, he would not succeed." But, MEP Mesec, there is no Akrapovich in Afghanistan and if we continue your policy in Slovenia, they will soon not even be in Slovenia. This is the cruelest truth that comes from your politics. Therefore, in NSa we reject the Left policy, which claims that entrepreneurs are enemies of the people, still an old rumor. Luka Mesec and his colleagues forget that many people have a very good job because of the ideas and work of Mr Akrapovic, and this is not a poorly paid job, but a well-paid job. When they talk about subsidies, it would be fair and right to tell at the same time how many million these companies are, these people who work in these companies have contributed to various state cash registers – from pension, health and other. Because it's kind of forgotten that successful companies also pay a lot of taxes. If we allow the business environment in Slovenia to deteriorate further, but it is not the best today, then the result will be clear. People will continue to leave this country. What is the future of Slovenia if we lose the most creative part of this society, part of a society that has ideas that can create concrete things from ideas that can create jobs and thus fill state treasury? If we drive away this part of society, then we're getting sick and we're going to be a country of subcontractors and poorly paid workers, which we don't want. If we're trying to look objectively at where the underlying problems and problems are. Different studies, but we always come up with one thing that is at the heart of the problem in Slovenia, which is the taxation of work. This taxation of work is certainly too high in Slovenia. Work taxation can include both contributions and income. As far as the contributions are concerned, even in NSa we agree not to touch them, because the problem is that pension and health bills already have their own kind of problems. But we see a lot of manoeuvre in a different income arrangement. If you compare this income arrangement with other countries, then you will find one very interesting fact – that in Slovenia you are extremely quickly declared an ultra rich person because 50% of the income tax awaits you, while in other Western European countries with which we compete, you really have to be rich to be taxed with such a tax. All of this story began to spin more or less when Levica made it clear and the coalition did not deny that capital gains would be slightly more taxed. Hand to heart, if you listen to the Left, it seems that profit is a swearword. Profit is in Slovenia, if you listen to the left side of this parliament, a swearing which is something bad, because if someone has a profit, then they feel they had to cheat someone, bring someone around, that profit is not allowed in this country. If we agree to this logic, if we land in this way of thinking, then it leads us to ruin, because profit is the driving force behind development. Each reasonable entrepreneur invests his profits in further development. In every normal country, profit cannot be profanity, but it can be the basis on which new developments can be developed and made. In addition to comparing capital gains, it is often said that this is low in Slovenia and too low in comparison with other Western European countries. In Slovenia, capital gains are taxed at 25%. Poland 19%, Czech Republic 15%, Croatia 12%. They'll probably come from the Left, yeah, yeah, but Germany and Austria have at least as much as we do, if not even more. True, but who are we competing with in this global battle? I would look forward to it and wish I could compete with Germany, Austria. But because of excessive bureaucracy and the strange business environment in this game, unfortunately, we are lagging behind. Our real competitors you want or you don't want are the countries I counted. When Luka Moon, Member of Kordish and others were intimidated, I believe that these were also planned provocations for strengthening their electoral base when he started scaring companies, they started happening. [[…]] (The sitting was suspended at 11.32 p.m. and resumed at 12. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We continue the meeting, which was suspended due to a power failure. At this point, we will make an experimental vote to see if the system works. Please sign up. It's just an experimental vote. Please make sure your specific cards work. Thank you very much. I am also putting an end to the trial vote. Thanks for the recommendation, too. I ask Mr Tonin to proceed with the presentation of the Group's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u23	Obviously I was really talking about blasphemous things, because the guard went when I talked about profit in Slovenia being a terrible thing, something that Levica says is blasphemous. And it's easy – here's the suspension of the session. In short, I'll go on where I stayed. In every normal country, profit is a driver of development. Without profit it is not possible to invest in new products, it is not possible to offer people better products, better services, and creating jobs again. As I have already said, most shocks or the most raised eyebrows have stimulated the forecast of raising capital gains. It is right to compare ourselves with others to compare ourselves with those with whom we are competing in this global world, what their taxation is. In Slovenia, for example, capital gains are taxed at 25%. In Poland with 19%, in the Czech Republic with 15%, in Croatia with 12%. These are more or less of the countries we are competing with, and it is right to be aware of where Slovenia stands in this constellation. I am sure, as probably all of you in this Chamber, that Slovenia is an extremely beautiful country, and that at such a small end of the world you will find it difficult to get a more diverse country than Slovenia does. It is in tourist towns that tourists can say that they can drink coffee in Ljubljana during the summer months and decide whether to go to mountains or to shore. If anything, then really little needs to be done, little political will, little motivation to change our business environment in a way that allows our people in this country to fulfill all their talents, so that they can live a decent life from their work and stay in Slovenia. Slovenians are hardworking, good people, and if they have the right circumstances, the right conditions for work, then you can see that they are successful practically around the world. From America to Australia. One interesting thing that indicates Slovenian entrepreneurship, Slovenian ingenuity, creativity, are start-ups. Slovenia has literally ruled as far as start-ups are concerned. These Slovenian start-ups raise €150 million per year. Unfortunately, only 5% of these funds remain in Slovenia. Why? Because investors all over the world who invest in young Slovenian boys and girls with good ideas want to open up companies to realize these ideas either in London or in Switzerland, New York or elsewhere in the world, where the business environment is much more predictable. With this business environment, entrepreneurs could not give a clearer signal to politics. This is where it shows that the Polish business environment needs it. Debarcation, greater predictability and more reasonable taxes. If we do this, most of this 150 million will remain in Slovenia. We are only talking about one small segment that has now been highlighted. There are probably a number of segments where the story is important. So if this particular case is not spoken enough for you, then I can give you another example of one good friend who works in an information technology company. He recently moved from Slovenia to the Czech Republic. His gross salary was reduced by 8% when his employer moved from Slovenia to the Czech Republic and his gross salary decreased by 8% when he moved. Do you know how much his net payment has increased to his transaction account? For 60%. This is what we are talking about today's proponents of this meeting. If we do not create better business environments, then young people, educated people, will be the most creative people to flee this country. These are the ones the country will be betting on in the future to help move this wagon called Slovenia forward. I hope that you have listened carefully, with 8% lower gross wages, 60% higher net salary was just because the family moved from Slovenia to the Czech Republic. Today's session is also, in some ways, an opportunity to clear up an important dilemma that has been raised many times in the media and in the public eye in these days. This whole storm was caused by a coalition deal. It's not because the opposition would be a firefighter. If you didn't put this in a coalition contract, we wouldn't even be able to expose it. When I'm listening here today, how some entrepreneurs have grasped the possibility that the firefighters are in this environment, and I don't know what else, believe me, that entrepreneurs and craftsmen have their work over their heads and wouldn't have gone into some story if it hadn't been written in black on a coalition contract. Today we had a replica, a repeat. We listen to Commissioner Mesco, who normally continues to convince us that taxes of various forms will be raised in the future. And on the other hand, we have a coalition that convinces us that none of this is true, that these are wrong interpretations, that this is not true. My fundamental question as an opposition Member is who is right now. Who's telling the truth? We can read one in the coalition contract, which is, hand to heart, what Member of the Moon claims, and we have coalition Members who claim to be our wrong assumptions and interpretations. There's only one way out of this, for the first time, whether the coalition brought around Levico. There is a possibility that some of their wishes may have been written in the coalition contract, assuming that they will never do so. According to the locals, it was a classic push, they promised something to provide the votes for Marjan Sarec to be elected Prime Minister of the Government. From here on out, we can listen to their debates that there will be nothing out of it, everything will be part of a comprehensive tax reform, tax restructuring and so on. As far as I'm concerned, okay, because my goal is that taxes don't go up, but it's not fair to your coalition partners, because you fucked them up at home. But that's your business, that's the thing about your relationship with them. The second option that would be the worst is that, in fact, all that the Coalition Treaty contains and all that the Member of the Moon has said today and in the past that all of this is true and that they will also do so has not been denied by the President of the Government on one of the commercial televisions. But if that is true, it is clear that today the entire coalition is deceiving us. Time will tell you the truth. We in New Slovenia just want to create conditions and an environment in which we will leave entrepreneurs and craftsmen as peaceful as possible so that they can carry out their business normally. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, for her mag. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u25	Mr President, honourable Members, Members and all others present. Alenka Bratušek was represented by only two Members in the previous term. For four years, Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Alenka Bratušek acted as opposition deputies. For many years in the opposition, the convocations of this meeting have been active. Also at the request of the SAB Members, urgent meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly have been convened several times, for example, at the request of Alenka Bratušek, the Commission for the supervision of public finances has been called upon several times. These sessions discussed New Ljubljana Bank, the operation of the Slovenian State Holding, the operation of a bad bank and the like. We demanded an increase in pensions, discussed universal basic income. You could still list it. All of these were references to urgent, extraordinary meetings that were important for the state and citizens. Our goal has always been good — to improve the functioning of the country. Today's session is not like that. The coalition is composed of parties who understand well the structure and functioning of the country and the economy. It consists of parties who had to rescue Slovenia precisely because of the measures taken by the previous right-wing governments. The new government is made up of parties who had to save the country from the troika because of the failure of the government of those right-wing parties who are working today to know the most. How much damage only Janez Janša did when he was prime minister and repeatedly repeated that it was over for Slovenia and that she would urgently need the help of a threesome. Because of his call to the troikas, honest entrepreneurs, workers, and everyone else in our country were injured. Now these same customers, who made up the other Janša government, dare to argue a new one against bad measures. Ein bischen morgen, I'd say one of my friends. At Alenka Bratušek we will not support any of the proposed conclusions because they are not properly set. We therefore propose to the opposition parties that they should do as Party Alenka Bratušek did in the previous term. Yes, we were in opposition, but with a constructive and sincere attitude, we were able to achieve higher pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The next parliamentary group is the Party of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Robert Polnar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u27	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At first glance, the purpose of the economic system seems to be reasonably clear, and so it is usually viewed. Its purpose and purpose is to provide people with products and services. If such a system did not exist, life would be difficult and unsustainable. Why? It is a system that produces food, processes it, packagings it and distributes it, which manufactures fabrics and manufactures clothing, builds residential buildings and equips them, supplies us with energy and utilities, equips us with health and educational services and enables us to maintain order and safety. From here comes the fundamental function of the economic system, as well as the understanding that the best economic system provides people with what they want most. Such an attitude is simple, valued and rather unilateral. It is on the palm of the hand that no sane person with basic civilisational well-being will act in a way that threatens a system that also provides him with an inevitable need for a material basis. Economic history has shown us convincingly that, particularly in the last century, processes have developed in which more and more economic functions have begun to be carried out by different organisations. Industrial enterprises, energy companies, trading chains, banks, media networks, state and public bureaucracy. Some of these organisations are very large, so hardly anyone doubts that they have much power and influence, that is to say, the ability to manage the efforts of individuals and countries. Organisations work in a way that satisfies their own interests. As we know, these are the interests of individuals who participate in their operations as employees or as owners. The objectives of these organizations, thanks to the rapid miracle, to a random or deliberate challenge, are usually identical to those of the public. But when such a miracle is missed, something happens that cannot surprise us. Wherever and whenever different interests of organisations and the public are faced, the interests of organisations shall be weighed and the interests of the organisations realized. The function of the economic system from this point of view is no longer unilateral, at least not in the eyes of the one who wants to see the reality of the phenomenon. Indeed, in the wide variety of its activities, the economic system also serves the individual and the public in part, and largely fulfils the needs of its own organisations. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! One of the biggest economists in history spoke of the normal functioning of capital 250 years ago. In doing so, he warned the nation that the capital created in a way that unrelentingly preys on all social strata and brings destruction to all areas of civil life. This was Adam Smith, the rookie and defender of such a circle of society that we want to create. Those who began the modern era of capitalism and those who knew that in this and such capitalism it was necessary to maintain the honour and dignity of work, the morality of economic relations and responsibility for all those who try to behave in a different way. Why should we talk about this today? Because as a country that has moved from communism to capitalism, we should follow exactly what we mean. We didn't do it. In advance, we have given up the possibility of creating a transition of this kind into a new social arrangement. It is impossible to become and be a modern country, but not to guarantee legality in the economic life and working life of a nation. It is impossible to become a modern nation while adopting laws that are simply being played or ignored. We have strongly chosen national independence, but we have not questioned the nature of its other objectives. But it's dangerous to have a country, and don't ask yourself which one. Any country means everything's allowed. And this is a doomsday right, full of destructive ease. In its explanation, there are only winners and losers. The winners belong to everything, but the losers don't. The winners thus carry out only their opinions and ideas, so the greatest idea is turned into the worst fact. The Coalition Treaty simply cannot be a substitute for the country's development strategy and for government economic policy measures. Today's drafters present three reasons for the reference: one sentence in the coalition contract, one statement in the television broadcast and one record on the social network, all combined with values that are much weaker than actual terms. For example, for us, it is an important factual term of “tax debt”, which the Slovenian State is generously tolerating to its debtors and amounts to 13% of the total revenue of the Slovenian state budget for 2018. In this debt, the imprudent share of the Slovenian economy, which is supposed to be at risk, is also at stake. It does not satisfy the material for the meeting in the manner in which the problems are explained, following recommendations which have also been submitted and rejected to the Committee on the Economy, and following the measures to be taken. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we have already opposed the recommendations already proposed to the consideration on the parental committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We have reached the last parliamentary group, the Slovenian National Party, for her Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u29	Good day to you all! In fact, the coalition treaty, which we are talking about all the time, is now just a new direction for the work of the future government. I don't know why you've coordinated it for so long, you've thought and agreed to all the conditions that Levi's given, now that you're saying that what you've agreed on will not apply. I understand that she's upset because she sees that you pulled her by the nose, but I think she'll pay you back, she'll pay you back with interest. The statements made by Levica and made by her have caused irreparable damage or grave repairs. It must be realized that many craftsmen went to Slovakia at this time, moved their companies. It must be said that Bauhaus transferred its bank accounts to Austria. And since it was threatened that entrepreneurs with bayonets would be pushed into the sea, it is expected that they would quickly go abroad. People are afraid, afraid of what will happen to them, whether they have anything else or they'll get it all. The older ones remember in 1949 when they were nationalized when they collected their homes, tractors, cows, and all. Is that gonna happen now? All of this reminds me of the period in 1917 in Russia, when Bolsheviks started with the same passwords and went so far as to overthrow Russia, which was then in the economic upheaval, and made the Soviet Union collapse in a moment. And that took a long time. I'm afraid the coalition has no sense of silence on the little door of this former system. This former system, which is not in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution, I therefore believe that sometimes it is necessary to ask legal experts, constitutional experts, whether certain statements of the Left do not go beyond the limits and do not violate the constitutional framework, but the right constitutional lawyers, not such constitutional lawyers, who once led a government that has heavily indebted and brought Slovenia to the brink, and who today will lead Slovenia in international politics, which will be tragic again. Everyone in Levica is talking about how to pick up those who are working, but I never heard from them that it was necessary to pick up those who stole hundreds of millions and who put their imported companies and companies and banks in a bad bank that collects profits in their pocket and sells with a loss. Or those who have written them off for 10, 12, 16 or 20 million debts. I haven't heard them once! And no one in the coalition to say we're gonna handle this. We're gonna shoot this thing. I haven't heard a single voice like that, so it's all funny. It is, however, the fact that the Slovenian economy worked best now that the governments were not actually there. At that time, they were at peace, and they could work normally. Despite the horrendous laws they have restricted, but how much more will it be, according to all else, this, however, is a serious fear for entrepreneurs, for economicists, for craftsmen — what will happen to them. Therefore, it is no wonder that the young are leaving. But they don't just go to college. They are moving out of Slovenia. They're leaving forever. And what are we gonna do here? All we're gonna have here is maids and gardeners, maybe some kind of mechanic. But one that will work in black, because the rest will be done in accordance with the Coalition Treaty. The burdens imposed by Cerar's government will now increase. I will not repeat the information that has already been told and is accurate and horrifying. In addition, European funds that the former government did not know or perhaps did not want to draw from Europe remain there. This remains for migrants to share. This remains for the European Union, which now wants to join the European countries, to draw 25 more islands and territories that are, in fact, colonies of England, the Netherlands, Denmark and so on. That's what we're gonna get in now. Fine. And we will reopen the door wide and give them what we never want to give to our own people. And that is what we do not agree and we are against in the Slovenian National Party. It should be known that the equality declared by the coalition treaty is equality in poverty. But you have to realize that when everything's gone, everything dies. People die, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. We are going to have a general debate between Members and Members in the proposal for a recommendation. First, she wanted the word Susana Lepi Šimenka, the proposer, and also Joseph Horvat, also on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that it was quite interesting to listen to all these views of the Group and not least to the Government's opinion, which we had already received in writing and heard yesterday. I am sorry, however, that the Minister for Economic Development is not here now because I would like to refer somehow to some of the statements that have been made here today. First of all, to the government's opinion, I'm going to read something that's written in here, and you've all received it, but I'm not sure if you've all read it. It says "The Government also recognises that, in the interests of a socio-economically successful and advanced country, the important development of the Slovenian economy and the achievement of the objective of strengthening its competitiveness is primarily an appropriate business environment". I couldn't agree more. If he agrees with all six of us here on the right, then we are also saved as a country. It goes on to say, “The country is governed by law. ” [[…]] Well, there's already one problem here. It's a scale of economic freedom. When we look at where we've fallen the most at this time, we're already coming to the country of law. When we walk a little around the economists, when we listen to their opinions, we hear a lot of criticism and problems that they actually have, in particular, the area of executions and could still be listed. So the rule of law for an entrepreneur is probably not a contribution. Further, the regulated infrastructure – I don't know, all of us who drive around the station every day, stand half an hour in a column every morning. I don't know if we can say it's a regulated infrastructure. We would enjoy the train, unfortunately, Ptuj-Ljubljana almost 3 hours, but somehow it doesn't work out, even if we still want to. So it's hard to talk about infrastructure. A predictable business and political environment – I don't know, it's hard to say here that we have such a predictable business and political environment, maybe in the coalition contract you mentioned measures, now predictable, entrepreneurs, investors for the next few years know what's ahead. If that's what you think is predictable, I agree with you. Access to markets – yes, indeed, Slovenia is indeed at some strategic point and how it would agree. Of course, the problem is that we don't know how to take advantage of it. The skills of the labour force – we have an extremely successful, good, young people, older people, we do have a well-trained staff, many companies come to Slovenia for this very reason. Yes, I agree with that, but on the other hand, we get to our education system. How many apprentices do we have? I don't know, 50. All the rest of our education system is far away from adapting to the needs of the Slovenian economy, which are technical professions, so to speak, are gone, and all the economists know that and have for many years warned about this. This place is going to be a problem, and that's why they won't come to us. The demand for administrative procedures – this is of course important to the investor and they now say that someone will be just because all these procedures are good for us. I don't know, folks, I'm really wondering why we then adopted a special marriage in the previous term just for Magna, an investor, that things got better, because otherwise they wouldn't be. In the very explanation of the law, it was well stated why we need a special law. Yes, because otherwise building legislation, environmental legislation does not let certain things go through as quickly as investors want and expect. So to praise and stress this, I think it is completely wrong, because these are exactly the areas in which we should do more. And, of course, entrepreneurs also expect to do much more in these areas. It was mentioned by the Minister of Economy of a strong economy. Of course, this is what we all want, including the Minister of Finance, which, through the emphasis, we just need to grow gross domestic product and we are saved and our country's debt to gross domestic product will not be too high, the percentages will be fine. But will it be true if these measures, which you have entered into the coalition contract, are taken? Many entrepreneurs have already announced and will leave Slovenia because it is the least and easiest thing they can do. Those who are more at the border with Austria ask yourself a little, Koroška, Styria, Prekmurje, how many companies have already moved across the border. Not to mention how many citizens have moved away because of our tax policy. And, of course, already on board yesterday, and also today, the Expert Council for a Competitive and Stable Business Environment – I very much welcome this initiative, excellent, including the composition of who is involved, great. But the expert council at the level of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology? What, though, belongs to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology? Of those key things that concern entrepreneurs – some of these things I have already mentioned here – very little. Most things belong to the Ministry of the Economy, something like that under the Ministry of Labour. Second problem, Ministry of Education. If this government were to take this professional world seriously, what would you do, at what level would you put it? To the President of the Government. And she also included the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Labour. But no, it's best to put this under the Ministry of the Economy. And, of course, the Minister of the Economy will say to any question of the economists who will open up the subject most of the questions about taxes: "Yes, I'm sorry, I agree with you, but this does not belong to my department." I mean, you're not serious. So another good action that could really be good, you can't put it right. You'll see, you've probably done this on purpose because you're not actually going to fix these things. But if they do, then you still have a chance to fix these things. As far as the positions of the groups are concerned, now, specifically with Levica, who has entrepreneurs as tax collectors, one would simply nationalise their assets. There is no point in dealing with them, it is a pity for them, but it is not a pity for words for all the rest of the coalition, for these five parties. I kind of believe that many of you sitting here, some of you are entrepreneurs or were entrepreneurs, realize that today is not growing on a tree. You are aware of how important it is that we have a strong economy and that, as a result, the country has enough money to drive the rest of the systems. I think it's clear to most people in this national council. For Levi, but now it's autumn, the leaves are full of trees, it's going to fall off slowly, it's money, we're going to pick it up a little bit, we're going to split it up, and that's it. [[…]] I don't want to lose words with them. And for everyone else, I really hope we come up with a common denominator. But I'm disappointed. The largest coalition party has a philosophical position, the economists are pleased with it. I'm really wondering why we're here. It has been said that our theme, when we stress what actually plagues the Slovenian economy, is exempt from reality. I mean, who's out of the picture now? I don't know if the philosophers are beyond reality or the economists and what they're alerting them to? It's really just hard to understand at all. I don't know, you've probably noticed that for some time now, because of your coalition contract, there's a petition that's called For Business and Successful Slovenia. To date it has been signed by 2 000 64 companies and 5 000 675 citizens. Among these companies are a number of associations, which have a significant number of companies in the background, so that this is one particular mass. That's the result of your coalition agreement. Because of your actions that you have entered into the coalition contract. I'll take that as a reality. There are things written in here that are reality. What else are they asking? Why did this happen? They ask whether we still want entrepreneurship in Slovenia, whether entrepreneurship in Slovenia is still a value, or whether successful entrepreneurs with the right moral values of people who are presented to our children as examples as our top athletes. Are not successful Slovenian companies and Slovenian entrepreneurs the true ambassadors of our country? Do we want top innovators to create products with high added value in Slovenia, and of course also companies that will generate high profits in the future, new parts of the city, development and thus the well-being of society and the country? They also wrote: “After the events of the last days, we are not sure that we live in a country where the answers to the above questions are positive. Many politicians react very slowly to the stigmatisation of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship. We entrepreneurs want clear and positive answers to the above questions. We want to create a supportive environment for our children to be respected and appreciated if they choose to enter the business path." You must have heard the LMSH, that's the reality. Our session is the answer to this reality, so we called it in. And not because we don't have another job and we're in the process of calling meetings. I really appeal to you, don't ignore petitions like that, don't ignore the economy, because then the country is really bad for us. SD – You have been exposed to respect for entrepreneurship and have also attended the Celje Fair. I'd like to ask you. You've been in the coalition for a very long time, one way or another, and you've run the government. Every year we get requests from entrepreneurs for Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. It's one of those little books. You got it this year, too. How many of these requirements have you fulfilled as a party to the SD? All the time, almost all the time, you were part of the coalition. I mean, if you're so committed to entrepreneurs, how many of these have you accomplished? I don't know what else to say to you. SMC – the exposure of modern technology, a friendly environment. Okay, here we know that we may also have an environmental problem. That the grades were premature, we heard. I don't know when, if not now? After something has been adopted and the consequences of poorly adopted laws will appear? It's too late then. Now is the time to talk about it. The Economic and Social Council has been highlighted and discussions, dialogues will take place. Yes, for this purpose the Economic and Social Council was also established. But what happened in the last term? SMC as the largest coalition party, the Association of Employers of Slovenia has left these negotiations very quickly, after the start of your mandate. Why is that? Because there was no dialogue. Because they came there to talk to each other, they would present their problems and find a solution together. But there was no dialogue. It was said, that's how it's gonna be! And they just left the Economic and Social Council. I don't know, I mean, okay, okay, I hope you've overlooked, it's been a mistake, we need the Economic and Social Council and, of course, all the stakeholders to participate in this world. And I really hope you fix this now. Alenka Bratušek – to act as Mrs Alenka Bratušek did in the previous term when she was in opposition. Yes, because we, as the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with Mrs Alenka Bratušek, have agreed in many ways and have worked constructively on many occasions. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always supported all those proposals that were good either for the economy or for the citizens. And that's how we'll work in the future. So we don't need to be called upon to be constructive. However, I hope that in a week, two, three, when we adopt the budget and also hope for other laws and this recommendation, the proposals already tabled by Nova Slovenija, that you will also be constructive and that you will not see who has now introduced a law. If the marriage is good, let's finish it to make it even better and support it together. We, I don't think we need to talk about some constructiveness. You'll have it on our side, be sure. Desus – I really hope that the pensioners you so stress are, otherwise the Ministry of Labour will obviously never take over so that he can do something for the pensioners. I really hope those pensioners of yours understand your views, too, because they're really hard to understand. The tax debt was exposed. I couldn't agree more. It's a big problem. I don't know, maybe the Secretary of State will explain why there was no longer a tax debt in the previous mandate. We've got a lot of money somewhere, and we can't get it back to the cash register. Very important, I fully agree with you, but Desus is, now you might say, a member of the coalition for decades, always in the government. What did you do in the area of tax debt? It has been said that we have turned to one measure and that we have now turned to one statement and that that is why we have this meeting. I don't know if you've noticed, maybe you've got it, too. On August 31, 2018, the Economic Slovenia wrote one protest letter, as far as I know, was addressed to all parliamentary groups, including all media, so if not through parliamentary groups, you've probably heard of it from the media. In the protest, the Director General of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia wrote: "In Slovenia there is an irrational idea that the sharing of profits between owners is an illegal and criminal act. The statement of Luke Mesca in Tarča is the highlight of such thinking.” That's what we're talking about. It's not worth losing words about. “This absurd statement reveals a lack of knowledge of basic economic legislation, as well as a lack of understanding and understanding of the legality of the functioning of the economic and social system, which is, in particular, unacceptable for a Member. Luka Mesec not only attacked Igor Akrapovic, but also the most successful Slovenian economists who created thousands of jobs and contributed hundreds of millions in their work to the Slovenian budget and state treasury. With rhetoric that sets entrepreneurs in the context of tycoons, it creates a moody, hateful atmosphere against the economy.” Then he writes: “The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, on behalf of the economy, demands that the National Assembly be defined, both in its jurisdiction of the legislative branch of power and through its prism of violation of ethical principles, and, secondly, that the coalition of economics, the hostile idea presented by Luke Moon, distances itself from it, and in its actions confirms that it supports faster economic development in Slovenia for the benefit of all citizens and citizens.” And if you didn't respond, we did, so we also gave you the opportunity to distance ourselves from such statements, but more than obviously, at least shown yesterday on the board, you don't intend to. But still, it's not too late. You can still correct the Coalition Treaty, in another way, if you can distance what we have offered you from such statements and start the success story and the development of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much. First, before I give the floor forward, there is a procedural proposal, Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Mrs. Pretty Chimenko? I have to replicate this in the temple of democracy. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u34	Sorry, you have a procedural, not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u35	Then I'll take a procedural reference to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u36	No, no. You have a procedural, if you have a procedural, address me.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u37	I'm referring to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u38	Sure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u39	The debate that we have heard with Mrs Nice Šimenka's benches is a total denial of the democratic process. To go in the order of the customer to the customer and [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u40	Sir, do you have a procedural proposal, or do you have a debate or anything else?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u41	I have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u42	Then address him to me. In the case of a procedural proposal, you cannot hold a debate with the speaker, but you will tell me what you want and then I will decide whether or not I will take your proposal into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u43	May I say what I want?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u44	Tell me, I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. In cases of dismantling of the democratic process, as we have now heard from our colleague, Member of Parliament and Members, please note. We are here to discuss, to put arguments on the table and to argue with each other or with each other. One sitting on the right side, one on the left side of the parliamentary floor, should not be an obstacle here. I have not heard a single argument, I have heard the obvious, which is the total disassembly of the democratic process and as the chairman of the National Assembly at this time of the meeting of the National Assembly, I ask you to warn the Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much. In Mrs Suzanne Pretty Šimenka's debate, there was absolutely nothing like what you said, it was no disassembly. It was a debate, answers to what was said in the views of the parliamentary groups, with arguments, with quotes. And what you wanted to do for a procedural proposal is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We continue the debate. First, the representative of the proposalr, Mr Joseph Horvat, will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the representative of the government! We in New Slovenia really wanted this debate to be a debate on the effects of the operation, the implementation of the coalition agreement signed, and of course also that policy, the National Assembly, should be very clear to the Huja rhetoric which we could have followed to entrepreneurship at the beginning of this month and later by one of the parliamentary parties. The legitimate right of every Member, the Group of Members, is whether to be defined or not to this enemy rhetoric. None of the parties have defined it, except that they condemned such rhetoric, except, I must say, the Social Democrats have looked at each other at least and somehow disapproved of such rhetoric. That's my understanding. Of course, I agree with you that in fact the debate on the effects of the coalition agreement is extremely difficult. If this were a coalition contract, a contract, then the debate would be significantly easier, even more reasoned. But since this is an agreement, it can be quite something. And at the end of the term of office, you will say: “We have achieved the commitments of the coalition agreement on a per cent basis.” The opposition will probably say you haven't realized anything. Because if the contract were to be — for 25 years I worked in the economy — the contract must have quantitative, financial, and time-consuming elements. That's got to be what everyone knows about repairing the roof or whatever. So much for this material, at such a price, so many hours spent, together the price is so much, and we will do it at the end of October. Now we cannot discuss precisely. But if anything, it must be a very important debate on the economy. Not about entrepreneurs, about economists, Nova Slovenija does not talk about business owners, not about directors, not about entrepreneurs, we are talking about the economy. My colleague Robert Polnar tried to define what the economy really is. And he did a good job of analyzing the impact, and he also touched on Adam Smith's influence on modern economic theory. The economy is more than just entrepreneurs. The definition is more, read them, I won't waste my time. But at least, what is an economy, of course, are employers and employees. From here comes our model and advocacy of the socio-market model of the economy. No one among you in the previous term has ever objected to us and said that this is a wrong model. We'd like to face it. Tell us that we are wrong to say that this is not a real model, that it is not a real model of the socio-market model of the economy. We have learned a lot from walking in the field, visiting family businesses, mainly economic operators, and telling us, among other things, that the largest capital of every owner of the company, every entrepreneur, is his team, his employees. These, I continue or continue with the directors or owners, do not have the right to purchase a yacht for the owner. And they say, of course, I'm going to give Christmas, of course I'm going to pay 14th salary, 13th salary and so on, but why does the country have a great greed for this 13th and 14th salary, which has done nothing about it, and the workers have created the results of the company, but half of it is taken by the state. Is that right? Is that right, ladies and gentlemen? If you say no, we're the legislative branch of power, let's let these things be solved. Yes, we have improved in the previous mandate for nuance of matters. Let's take the next step, please. The laws of New Slovenia are under consideration. I'm not saying they're absolutely right and they can't be amended. God forbid. Let's do it together, let's do the best we can. And when I speak together – someone has made it clear that we, I don't know, are insulted or something, that we have been in opposition for a long time, yes, okay, indeed, the result of the elections, other reasons are that we are in opposition. We are proud, however, that when we were together, as our former successor, SKD, we made and reached the first consensus together, that is the independence of Slovenia. And when we were together again, we made a second consensus in this country, Slovenia's entry into the European Union, Slovenia's entry into NATO, taking over the euro's common currency. We're proud of that. And today, as the representative of New Slovenia, please let us be united about some solutions and do what this country, ladies and gentlemen urgently needs. He needs a third consensus. Third consensus. And these are the solutions that will modernise this country, this society. I am simply not satisfied, New Slovenia is not satisfied that we are on the economic freedom scale 71st of 162 countries. And you are? Is anyone there? I don't see any hands up. So none of them are. It's one, okay, great. Yes, Mr. LMŠ will say: "Well, leave statistics, some mathematics would say that statistics are a big lie." Whoa, whoa! These statements, however, are a little reckless. I'm sorry. Statistics are science. They teach at universities. They teach at colleges. And the basis of statistics is just mathematical statistics, is science. And mathematical statistics are part of applied mathematics. And please don't attribute here to the mathematicians to declare that statistics are a lie. Hello?Oh, my God! Wait, where are we? Let's stop here for a while. Of course, I agree with some of the arguments in the debates of the various parliamentary groups, and I am always looking for those elements, those points where we agree. Yes, wage taxation is too progressive. I'll sign with both hands! In the parliamentary procedure is the amendment to the Income Act, under this amendment is signed by the New Slovenia Group. Let's abolish the 50% tax rate, the rate of income. As a candidate, the Minister of Finance has nodded and has calculated in his pocket that the financial impact is around 15 million outages, and even less so since we are raising 41% to 43. But the signal, ladies and gentlemen, would be very good and would reduce this progression. Maybe you disagree, okay, most people have to agree, then this law will be passed. Probably, too, at least in New Slovenia, we do not agree that we are only in 37th place, as regards competitiveness, as measured by the Swiss Institute for Management Development, measures 63 countries, we are in 37th place. What is the basic problem now that we are analysing these scales, where is the basic problem, where we are the worst, both in terms of economic freedom and competitiveness? We're the worst in government inefficiencies. It's just that these reports need to be read. Unless, of course, if the Priors say, no, no, it's all a lie, we're not dealing with it. Okay, then I hope that at least Umar is not lying about what he's producing. Because if Umar is lying, if the Bank of Slovenia is lying and the Faculty of Economics is lying, then I don't know who's telling the truth in this country. We in Novi Slovenija assess and want to share with you the conviction – I don't know if you will accept it – that entrepreneurship is a virtue and that this entrepreneurship should actually start in primary school. It's a virtue, it's a value. It is a virtue that means smart and ethical management, so we must not stifle entrepreneurship. If we're reading a coalition agreement, if we're listening to the rhetoric of the Left, then I don't know if that's exactly what it means to choke entrepreneurship. We may be misinterpreting, perhaps making a quick assessment, and we will be happy if the measures taken by this government are completely different. However, I am pleased that Party representative Alenka Bratusek has announced that the pensions will be higher. I hope to live four more years, then I can test it on my own. Unfortunately, this is the situation when there has been no New Slovenia in the government in the last nine years – and I am very keen to extend the rule or the conclusion of the two nine – in the last nine years the ratio between the average pension and the average salary has decreased by 9 percentage points, in nine years by 9 percentage points and we have agreed on a pension ratio : 58%. But, look at it, the fraction, our northern neighbors have the same numbers, you're numbers, but they're exactly opposite: 85. 85% of the average wage is the average pension in Austria. And it is not enough for us citizens, our tax residents, to correct the income scale – not just for them, because this would, as we already know, be constitutionally disputed – if we raise the general income allowance to 7,000 to those daily migrants serving in Austria, live with us, to reduce the additional income a little, that is not enough. Why not? As Austrian companies are also smart and start companies in Slovenia, I have a family experience, but when you get Slovenian salary, the net may even be higher than you received in Austria, and the problem is that Slovenia will be a pension, not an Austrian pension. I'm glad the pensioners are getting more and more, but of course I'd like to ask the representatives of the SAB to ask the president, Mrs. Alenko Bratovšek, who has identical initials as her former boss, Andrej Bajuk, what does she think of Andre Bajuk? So much for that. Colleagues and colleagues, I don't want us arguing here right now that the stateless opposition is calling for a meeting, and now it could be a shame, we'd have a payday, it would be just a shame that it's all without a connection. Put solutions on the plan. I will arrange for the NSI Group to sign if you ask for a similar meeting, similar discussions on a better, more competitive business environment, attractive, such that investors will just stick to us and that young people will not run away from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the first debater, Mr Igor Peck, we have another procedural proposal from Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. I would like you to warn Members that they should use the correct data because, say, Slovenia is not in 71st place in the economic freedom index, but in 64. Mr Horvat, as a Member of Parliament, also referred to the wrong figures – 71st place before you presented the opinions of the parliamentary group. For all of us, it is said that we are using the exact data that has been published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Well, you have a slightly different attitude from your predecessor who made a procedural proposal. Now hold on, I'm in favour of using accurate data and this is also stated. However, each debater depends on what data he uses. Thank you very much. I give my word to Igor Peček, prepare Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. All in attendance, all in attendance! The explanation of how we picture the content of the coalition treaty has been considerable today, and I would not have yet embarked on how we picture it in the website Marjan Sarca was presented in the starting points of our group. I think our primary task, why we are sitting here, me or all of us, is to try to create such an environment where dialogue will be a constant. Such a stand where there will be no room for unilateral and partial solutions. In recent discussions, which have been quite different in terms of interpretations, I have seen mainly the criticism of one side and the other. However, little has been said about constructiveness or the search or desire for common solutions. More than I've understood the drama and the fact that we're trying to show a worse picture than it actually is. Personally, I do not support unilateral and partial solutions, especially those for which we do not have measured financial effects. I say this in particular because each measure needs to be evaluated on both sides. If we take something from one side and put it on the other side, we need to know where we're going to take it and how we're going to spend it. If I can relate to just one thought that I liked, it is said that we will increase our income relief for that top grade, it will bring us a good EUR 15 million. For managers of companies that, for example, belong to these ranks of people in Slovenia who have such a salary, this would be welcome because they would have a higher net income. But I think that such a measure, on the other hand, should be supported by a counter-measure. Thus, in this case, a measure should also be taken where a 25 % tax should be increased by an appropriate percentage in order to have the same effect. I think it would be possible to compare them with the effect, but what would be important is what would be the effect, the positive effect on both sides. There is a need for a level playing field between labour taxation and capital. That's the consensus we all came up with. In practice, I explain to myself that this will mean an increase in capital tax, personal income or wages are already overtaxed in one way or another. Taking into account the rapid development of automation and robotics in the world, this also means that the share of work in global and general GDP is decreasing, which means that taxes under this heading are also decreasing. So we're gonna have to get them somewhere else. Modern, I'm not going to say modern, you can't take me for a word right now, but economists are also advocating a tax on robotics. The question is probably when and how. What seems important to me, or most important, is that we can't do without each other. Just like the economy needs the part that we sometimes say too quickly that it does not bring value, we also need a stable infrastructure, a good education system, in order for the economy to have good staff. By the way, the share of technical professions and interest is not decreasing. In addition, we need good health and social health to ensure that people are healthy, satisfied and well done. The dialogue that I mentioned at the outset, in particular, I imagined in this direction that it would seek balance and consensus between the economy, because the economy, as the gentleman told me before me, is not only capital, not just owners, but also owners of foreign assets that manage the property of owners and workers or employees. I cannot personally support both recommendations because, for the first time, I believe they are not, a reflection of the actual situation, but also because they are not within our jurisdiction, which is also confirmed by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The main idea and the idea of today's meeting of the initiator is that the coalition treaty has brought unreasonable taxes and headless growth of various privileges. However, there is no new tax and no privilege on the horizon, but those who have made good use of the State support privileges are being advertised. So, this unnecessary dramatization, that with this again, I quote, wants to suppress, drive and destroy Slovenian entrepreneurs, really makes no sense. The opposition parties propose a revision of the coalition contract because they consider it dangerous but forget that it is also co-ordinated with one of these parties in the beginning before they left the negotiations. And it is extreme absurd that masters of tampering recommend to officials of the ruling coalition that, I quote, “restraints, deceptions, threats and insults be held against Slovenian entrepreneurs”. End of statement. It's like listening to a fox from a pool. Exciting call on right-wing entrepreneurs to attract and attract attention to them, of course, in order to deny everything left-wing coalition has done in its previous mandate. We are, all together, a progressive and just society and in the Party of the Modern Centre we also intend to build such a further. It is therefore necessary to follow the fundamental principle of appropriate tax policies, and this is the principle of fairness, so that taxpayers with equal payability should pay the same tax and those with higher earnings pay more tax. In Slovenia, capital is among the least-taxed categories and work among the most taxed, especially when it comes to the higher pay grade. And as usual, the grades on the first ball are premature and tend to sensationalism. The conditions for management are not and will not change so as to consider moving capital and operating from Slovenia. This story about a gentleman who has moved from Slovenia to the Czech Republic, which Mr Tonin has illustrated, seems extremely unconvincing to me, because because you have a higher net salary on a lower gross salary, of course, stops part of the story of how the healthy family of this gentleman will be, what will be the Czech pension of this gentleman, how the children of this gentleman are being educated in the Czech Republic now. These are all the questions that are silent, but they are a very clear answer to why we have it the way it is. The dialogue is therefore necessary and is taking place directly between the partners. That's how it's supposed to be. And not through the media, because through the media, there's an ideological upheaval in, even to a certain extent. Today we have also seen the manipulation of the right hand, as we see in the reference to this session. My esteemed colleague Horvath, we talk a great deal, but he said that no one raised his voice against statements directed against the Slovenian economy. That's not true. In the position of the Modern Centre Party, it was said that such statements would not do any good for policy and economic dialogue and would be socially harmful. So I'm correcting you in this part because I think it's right to settle this matter. The Minister of Economy has demonstrated how good he is over the past four years, so there is no real danger that the business environment will be compromised in the implementation of the coalition agreement. I know him, and I know that's the last thing I'd let happen. The threats that Mr Akrapovich and Boscarol will move capital elsewhere are also exaggerated. If I did, I would. In Slovenia, however, they have one of the most favourable tax environments, not to mention the incentives received by the country and others. It is true, however, that despite the relatively high rate of labour taxation in our country, it is lower than the average of the OECD countries. The new government must work towards ensuring fiscal sustainability and compliance. This, of course, will ensure stability. It must also ensure that there are no tax burdens on the household and not on the economy. Of course, I understand the concern of one part of Slovenian entrepreneurs, but I do believe that such alarming assessments are completely premature, as serious assessments need to be based on complete information and on concrete measures, and these are not yet. A significant achievement of Slovenia is the balancing of public finances and tax policy must create good conditions for the economy, as this does not only help it, but also all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. During the government of the previous coalition, led by the SMC, progress has been made on all macroeconomic indicators. I'm not going to list them because I know it's going to cause an allergy in some people, but I can tell you that they're like the textbook of good economics. In taking further action, we will work in the SMC to ensure that they do not reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, as we know that it is the generator of all development for the future. Key priorities and objectives in this economic mandate will remain: maintaining a competitive business environment, drawing on European funds, which have also been used almost 96% in the past, successfully managing state assets, increasing exports, increasing the added value of employees and increasing gross average wages. These are commitments. Over the past four years, Slovenia has gone well, and the team, which continues to run the government, wants us to do even better. No soup is eaten as hot as it is cooked. In this session, however, they cry out in some way that the soup is dangerously hot and unfavourable, even though the pot is just attached. There's nothing to suggest that the cooking team is bad, so I'm going to reject the recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The text is by Susana Lepi Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u55	Thank you so much for the word. I really wish that no soup was as hot as it was cooked and that those words would stick. Nevertheless, today we are talking about those measures that you have entered into the coalition treaty. The coalition contract is signed by five parties plus with large, probably, interferences of the Left, and this is something that the economists, after all, also the wider public, take for granted. And you, too, are not united, whether you will fulfill it or not, that is your business, but we have it, it is signed, and we are discussing these measures today. It has been pointed out that these companies that jumped into the air were recipients of state support and so on. This has also been raised several times by members of the Left, and I think that Mr Akrapovic has been specifically explained in Tarča on 6 September. Because this mantra went on and on about how they were receiving aid from the State. The Minister of Economy will know this for sure, but Mr Akrapovič himself explained not a single euro of subsidies, for a perfectly principled reason, because we believe that this is essentially just a transfer from one pocket to another pocket, because he is on his way from one pocket to another, unfortunately, because of the administration he loses quite a bit of money. So, I would ask you, honourable Members of the Coalition, not to force this. However, the fact remains that the Secretary of State also knows how many state aids have been received by state-owned companies. And these are the ones that actually receive the most of these subsidies and aid. So that's me. [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]] Well, here, Mr. Horvath has complemented me. So I'm really appealing, we're not spreading any untruths here, we're talking about the measures that you've written down in the coalition contract, and which are completely unacceptable to the wider part of the economy, and that's why it's been a response to that. On the other hand, it is also because of the various statements you have made, which are totally inappropriate. Let me remind you, on September 14th, the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce wrote that Slovenian companies are in good shape, that was already after all these anomalies around the coalition contract and a few interventions by the Minister of Economy and others when you are trying to calm things down in some way, which is also right, but you will calm them in a way that will fix the coalition contract, because it is really the least you can do. I don't know, there's probably some reason why there's a higher power that's holding hands with you and that's why you're having problems, but that's the only way you can give the right signal to the economy. And they wrote that Slovenian companies are in good condition, “but the new government with unreasonable burdens can quickly choke the Slovenian economy”. That's what they warned me about. And I believe you're all aware of that, and that's not something that's negligible. They also talk about the target of €60,000 of average added value by 2025. And they estimate that this goal is achievable. However, we will have to invest more in development and have smart and sustainable policies at all levels. This means less administration and legislation in Slovenia, less tax burden on wages and more responsible governance and governance of the country. When we look at the coalition treaty, as far as administration and bureaucracy are concerned, we have talked a lot about this in the National Assembly, even at our initiative, we have presented a whole set of measures to you, but in the coalition treaty, despite the fact that the President of the Government stressed before the elections, there is too much red tape, too much red tape, we will debirocratise Slovenia, and there is virtually nothing in the coalition treaty. And also here is the area where I appeal to you, come on, with an appropriate correction of the tax area also a little bit to translate and, of course, correct it. But you probably know how many laws and regulations we have, almost two years ago, we had more than 20,000 in the Republic of Slovenia, which is totally unacceptable. Lower tax burden on wages. They're going to say yes, because there's really one sentence written there, that it's going to be adjusted properly with income and that wages are going to be unloaded. Yeah, it's gonna get messy, on the other hand, you're gonna put it in your pay, it's not gonna be voluntary, but it's gonna be mandatory health insurance, then some tax or contribution for long-term care, but we have to be careful here, but whatever, that's all we're paying for. But for a citizen, whether it's a tax or a contribution, he knows that it's easy for him to have something less. But if he's got a better service for it, there's no guarantee. How much money did we throw in health care? Not long ago, you confirmed that without knowing where that money would go. It's easy. And I don't know, 136 million, but a little over 30 million, I mean, in that way, I'm sorry, but that's really not the way this country is headed. [[…]] This is also pointed out by economists, which means more responsible governance and governance of the country. I believe that this will be a major problem, six parties to coordinate each other, so to speak, the mission is impossible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the proposer, Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Branislav Rajić rightly wondered how much pension this Czech citizen or worker would have, because he has a bigger net depending on the gross, better situation than we do. This one will have 100% of the salary for his pension. So the ratio is one, we have 58%. Why? Because the Czechs have a very well-developed multi-pillar system. This is exactly the proposal of New Slovenia that you will reject. Why? Not because he's bad, not because he's good. Because we're opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Now he gets the word Alexander Reberšek, followed by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I first started my career in the economy, more specifically in production, in Juteks, Žavec. I am extremely grateful for this experience because I have come to know the work of those who work hard for their modest wages for a month. I always have these good people in mind, and I'll never forget them. Today, these same people work, including for our wages, and some in this hall seem to forget and do not understand how the economy works. Today, as I have already said, who survived working outside the public sector, working in the economy, knows that there is a need to earn their wages on the market. In this market, which is ruthless and unforgiving and pays does not come by itself the fifth of the month. The tested recipe for improving the business environment and thus increasing employment and ultimately higher wages, especially in reducing taxes, reducing red tape and not in nationalising businesses, as some say here. Not all politicians are the same or the same and not all entrepreneurs are the same. Here are Akrapovič, Batagelj, Boscarol and many others who started with nothing, started in their garages, and today they employ thousands of people, allowing these thousands of people a decent over-average salary and thus sustaining many Slovenian families. However, they invest much of their profits in their companies. And these same entrepreneurs cannot compare with those tycoons that came to the chair, which this policy, a corrupt policy, has set out to exhaust Slovenian companies, mostly state-owned. Those who advocate the idea that businesses need to be even more burdened have every opportunity to set up a company in less than 15 minutes at the e-VEM point. Gather courage, enter the market, give employees decent wages, and then please comment. I believe a lot of people would think differently if they worked in the economy. The market would force you to sell your services and products cheaper than competition, the country would raise your taxes, your contributions, and not forget too much bureaucracy that would make your business more difficult. So let's not invent hot water and think about what we can do to make our economy more competitive. We will have much more than that if a successful company pays 5% of the tax of 5 million, than 50% of the EUR 500. It is necessary to create a favourable environment where taxes will be low, where there will be little red tape, companies will invest, and wages will be as high as possible. You know, me and you are worried about a little man, and we want to raise minimum wage. What have we done in Slovenia now, I wonder what we've done for a little man? I am truly ashamed that someone gets €605 net salary payments for 178 hours, along with food and transportation. I'm really ashamed. Why do we not deal with those who have the least, and why does he forget about them in this house? The more we burden entrepreneurs, the worse it will be for those who receive the lowest income. In Novi Slovenije we have repeatedly introduced a law that would increase net wages, I speak grossly in the same country and where we would take care of the weakest and not burden the economy. Already today, the work has been paid more than it has paid the minimum pension and the approximate minimum wage. And some of you would be even more burdened by already burdened entrepreneurs. I don't know if you're aware, but you're doing a lot of damage to the economy, you're doing a lot of damage to the country, and not least to all our citizens. Tax hikes are the extinction of the economy. Your Honor, Your Honor, this is Slovenia. There is no Venezuela here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Polnar, followed by Lydia Ivanus.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u61	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, a kind line of understanding of politics is shown in the National Assembly. It's a line of politics like our own. A line that cannot understand within its own entrenchedness that the world is not only black and white, that humans are not only depraved and sinless, but, above all, that there is an opportunity to think with their own head. Many people in Slovenia, including those who are self-declared as leftists, believe that we have capitalism in Slovenia today. They say more cautiously that we have a market system and free entrepreneurship. Article 74 of the Constitution states: "The economic initiative is free. The law lays down the conditions for setting up economic organisations. Economic activity must not be carried out in contravention of public benefit. Acts of unfair competition and acts which, contrary to the law, restrict competition are prohibited." Nonsense. Personally, I don't think so. In Slovenia, the system is only like capitalism. People are employees and employers, labour and capital owners, exploited and exploiters. But the outside image is not enough to show the full reality. Capitalism also assumes, in addition to the formal norms of the Constitution and laws, a certain relationship to money, to work, to profit and to entrepreneurship. Nowhere, except in textbooks, works as described in its model simplifications. Capitalism works and invests. The work is hard and dedicated. Investments shall be made at personal risk. Knowledge and expertise are appreciated. Their price is paid. But no one compensates for wrong personal decisions. In capitalism, loans are returned together with a certain and associated interest price, debts are the most serious matter and are not written off. Affluent consumption and affluent life are paid by continuous work and perception of business as duties and missions. The rubles are grave, but the creditors are ruthless, bankruptcy is a new opportunity, not a slow vacation. Capitalism is not based on unlimited greed, but banditry creates thieves, not entrepreneurs. But let's look at the present. Capitalism comes from the strength and success of its institutions and principles, the efficiency of the organisation, the advanced production of technology break traditional frameworks, the economy is governed by the laws of selection, the achievement of a higher price at lower costs, means success of those who cannot fail. Our tycoons are collapsing, foreigners are becoming owners of further-facing facilities, then businesses, at the end of the earth. Capitalism, created without the assumption of a regulated society in terms of the fundamental integrity of the rule of law and social solidarity, must acquire such values if it is to remain comparable on a global scale. This is not the case with us – employment, promotion and social promotion are the issue of connections and belonging to certain clicks, ambition is limited because it is not dependent on ability but on obedience. Personal training by building up knowledge is a reason for ridicule, not praise. Dignity to superiors is complemented by arrogance and arrogance toward others. The rules of market and of any other competition shall be adapted to the individual. Individuals are above the law. No, ladies and gentlemen, to not know this, only no progress can be seen, the only thing clearer is the gap between words and actions, between laws and reality. There is no market competition and entrepreneurship freedom in the right sense. The rehabilitation of banks has shown the most drastic existence of a parallel economic system, parallel administration and behind-the-clock policy. A system in which contracts, standards and restrictions are not respected and when indebtedness is ignored both for the taxpayers and for the lessors. The mandate of this National Assembly lasts a little over 3 months, we, ladies and gentlemen, have heard two very significant figures at that time, 2 000 320 and 870 million euros have been invested in the rehabilitation of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank, totalling 3 000 190 million euros. With what effect? On what basis was this even necessary? Probably based on these two banks lending. How do we know? However, they did not credit Martians, or Slovenians, to a large extent Slovenians, and probably economists. And so it became that profit was a private matter, and debts were common. That is why what we live in is not capitalism, not democracy and the rule of law. It has been shown that the State is not a neutral instrument of regulation, but rather a way of extracting assets that are arbitrarily distributed. Scandals aren't incidents. They were scandalous about the system. And that's why the system needs to be changed. We imagine, ladies and gentlemen, hypothetically that we would apply the principle that non-refunding is a principle of non-repayment of credit and that the non-payment of goods or services provided is a place of foreign property and that this principle would be implemented consistently in Slovenian legislation. What would the Slovenian economy look like? And as soon as there's some kind of psychiatrist who doesn't know what I'm talking about, ladies and gentlemen, 34 years of work in three large economic organisations, in very diverse jobs, and I know what the hell I'm talking about. The system, as we have it, is not capitalism, even though we call it free market competition and even though we behave with membership in the European Union. The silent agreement with the ceremony and the outside glare only conceals the real legalization of the banditry, miserable and miserable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Lydia Ivanus has the word, to prepare Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u63	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I have to respond to the pointless comments of the representatives of the Government Party of the Left, which we have been able to hear and read in the past period in the media. Both he and many other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia seem completely absurd that elected members in the media are threatening to propose an increase in the tax rate for the taxation of capital gains. Market developments in a market where both small and large entrepreneurs operate are not predictable. In accordance with the principle of a good economic operator, each entrepreneur seeks to make a profit in order to pay his employees and to ensure the social security of himself, his family and the future business of the company. I hope that many entrepreneurs, if not all Slovenian entrepreneurs, are already operating more than eight hours a day, which means that they are not always free weekends and afternoons, are said to invest a lot of their free time in their businesses. Many of them began their business journey practically from nothing, in garages, in small holes, and slowly created all day long to eventually create enough assets to enable them to live a decent life. Personally, I see no reason why someone who is honest, working is always paying taxes, could not afford goods, such or other, that would be too disproportionate to the extent of his business. In view of the volatility of the market in which entrepreneurs operate, the latter must always have cash available to enable them to adapt rapidly to any changing market situation. Certainly it is not the purpose of diligence and creativity and the creation of property that the State prescribes for this tax base such a high tax rate that business is no longer sustainable. According to the logic of the Party of the Left, someone who generates 100 units of profit should be deprived of 50 units, or more, all in order to support people who are lazy, who do not want to work. By making more capital available to the state budget through higher taxation, Levica wants to support those who do not work, or are part-timers, as more social transfers would be provided for them. I believe that by raising the tax rate, I would encourage black work. Entrepreneurs would no longer be willing to do fair business as the business environment would not ensure the sustainability of their business. Many entrepreneurs have already threatened to move to a tax-free country because of the tax rate at stake. I think that because of the higher tax rate, companies will adapt in a way that will encourage their services or goods, which will indirectly affect the business of all other companies, as it will mean more expensive business for them. Dear Members, we must not forget that the country is an entrants because the entrepreneurial environment creates added value. The Slovenian national party has always advocated the construction of economic infrastructure, which is a condition for faster progress. All members of the Slovenian National Party ask the State or Government to support entrepreneurs on the basis of the market economy, to respect regulatory, demographically threatened areas and to implement tax policies in favour of those who develop, expand and update their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u65	We have previously listened to Mr Polnar, President of the Committee on Finance, Member of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. He painted a very catastrophic situation in which Slovenia is today. He concluded or said in the middle: “But there is no progress to be detected.” [[…]] Do you know what the problem is? That the Democratic Party of Retired Persons is a party with the longest tradition in governments. So the most responsible for what a member of this government, a coalition member of this government, speaks of Slovenia, first and secondly, is the representative of the coalition party that signed the coalition, the so-called left-wing bloc with Zoran Jankovic. Earlier, Mr Polnar had said that the standard of non-payment of credits had become a standard, but he signed a coalition contract with someone who considered it a fundamental human right — not paying the credits paid at the expense of taxpayers. And today we are following this debate, full of amazing plants, which are a way of fogging the reality of the situation that Slovenia is in. See, today's debate is not about politicising the opposition, as some would like to present, as some want to divert attention. The entrepreneurs who responded are not influenced by the parties who proposed today's meeting. If they were, they would probably have spoken before the elections, and today we would certainly not have these problems, because there would be no such coalition agreement. And those who requested this meeting first addressed the letter to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Jew to convene this meeting and he did not want it. That's why the signatories called this meeting. And you're all forgetting or you're being completely blind, in this coalition contract it is, even though it shouldn't be necessary, and even though it doesn't have any legislative direct instructions, he also wrote that the Fiscal Council gave an assessment of the effects of the coalition contract that you signed. See, not under the influence of the opposition, the Fiscal Council, the composition of the Fiscal Council, namely, three members, was proposed by the current Minister of Finance, Mrs Vraničar. Mrs. Vraničar is not an opposition representative. It's coalition. Finally, Mrs Vraničar did not want to take over the Ministry of Finance because she said that she did not have assurances from the responsible parties – in this case probably the LMŠ, the President of the Government – in order to ensure financial sustainability, given what is enshrined in the coalition contract. You're running out on me today, too, with your statements. Mr. Restoršek says here about the speaker: “The coalition contract is dead.” Then comes the government coordinator for the speaker and says in his opinion, “The coalition contract is alive.” Make up your mind now! Make up your mind what's going on. Mr Restoring said that it was only framework guidance, only framework guidance. The Coalition Treaty or Coalition Agreement was never a framework guide, because if it were, then the Fiscal Council would not have written such an opinion, then Mrs Vraničar would be the Minister today and probably entrepreneurs would not have raised themselves against this coalition. Look, the coalition agreement bears the signatures of six champions of the parties, six champions of the parties: Luke Mesec, Marjana Sarca, Alenka Bratušek, Dejana Židan, Karl Erjavac, Marjan Cerar, no Marjan, no, Miro, if I'm not mistaken, yes. They probably signed in full consciousness with their signature. Now, look what the Slovenian taxpayer has, some of the party's champion signs, and then he says, because we're going to take so little into account. But today, he promises to do whatever he does and he doesn't even sign it. Now there's one promise with a signature that doesn't have to be taken into account. And today, we have a promise that you will be dipped in honey and milk without signing. So let's take that into account. Eggs hold, your signature on the coalition or your word today, given that we know that words are quite cheap. I will remind all of you once again what this opinion says to the Fiscal Council: “Consistent implementation of the envisaged measures could significantly exacerbate the state of public finances.” Is that alarming, or isn't that alarming? On the part of the Fiscal Council, the guardian in the constitution of the written fiscal rule. You tell me. And we can further read that the tax burden under this coalition contract will increase by 15%. Who's gonna pay for this? Will you do it? Will they be entrepreneurs? When you say it's premature. For 15%! I tell you, a quote from a contribution published on one of the portals, one of the entrepreneurs you know, you probably have already bought one of his services, says: “Our new entrepreneurs quickly learn that for foreign investors taxes in Slovenia are too high, Slovenian legislation is unclear, but the overall environment does not provide a long-term stable business environment and the opening up of a business abroad becomes such a normal step for any one of the least ambitious entrepreneurs of the new generation.” That's our concern. That's our concern. But you would add 15% of the profit to this environment now. And I don't know where Mr Rajić's member of the SMC is from, but in Slovenia he's one of the most favourable tax environments, I don't know where. He is a Member, he is on taxpayers' money, and here we have two clear statements from one who creates that Mr Rajić can also be paid. However, the budget expenditure will not, in the opinion of the opposition, be increased by between 20% and 30%, not in the opinion of the applicants, but in the view of the Fiscal Council. Do you know what that is? The country will therefore be irritable by 20% to 30%. After seven years, the crisis usually comes again. Then what? How are you gonna take that? Ah, because that's probably what the other government is going to do, you know. The Chamber of Commerce also wrote us, and I hope you've read what they wrote. It said, quote: "For the expected additional burden of the economy, 56% of craftsmen and entrepreneurs are considering moving their business to countries with a more predictable and stable business environment." Is that the fear of the opposition? Is that scary? Yes, it is. Did someone who deals with core business say that? Yes, it is. So why do you want to divert attention to the opposition? The same entrepreneur also wrote this: “With the relocation of companies with knowledge tested on the international market and potential in other countries, we lose at least 5 to 6 companies in a few years of success, reach 50 million and even more incomes and on average provide work for more than 500 people.” Did you hear what the entrepreneurs said? You think that's scary or don't you think it's scary? Are we going to export companies now instead of products and services? Remember what the coordinator of the Left said to you: “Export is achilles heel.” And in this case, if we start exporting companies because of your coalition contract, because they will move their headquarters, it will actually be a catastrophic Achilles heel for the Slovenian economy. In your coalition contract, you wrote in response to the government's observations or to the call for this meeting that the challenge of reform is addressed with a thought- provoking approach, the distribution of public financial burdens and also the successful pursuit of a key economic objective – public financial consolidation. But I'm sorry, the coalition contract says the opposite. The Fiscal Council also says that the Coalition Treaty speaks against it. You told us today that this is all too soon for you to make a comprehensive reform of tax policy. My dears, have you read your coalition contract? Here you have: “Challenge: Ensuring a stable, predictable and internationally comparable tax environment”. There is no reference to "total ventilation" anywhere, what you've all been selling today; that, I don't know, you will slowly approach to review everything and find some such new reform of the tax system. Nowhere! However, you wrote: “Personal income from capital and rent will be included in the base for the income assessment.” We will. It's a solid form. This is a case you've written down. So have you changed your mind on the basis of this public debate and are you now thinking differently? And if so, then if these are truly sincere interests, will you join in changing the coalition treaty? Because otherwise, you're still living a lie. Otherwise, you keep writing one, but you're doing something else. And otherwise it will continue to happen to you because I hope so much that the public has come to know the modus operandi, that if there is some stupidity in the coalition treaty and there is some nonsense that ministers want to bring through and a coalition in the National Assembly, it is necessary to raise their voices. It is necessary to raise your voice and say: “My dears, this is not the right way.” After all, why don't you change your contract? Because you may be afraid of the coordinator of the Left? Or the government coordinator, if I'm being precise. You've already appointed the government. You don't need his votes anymore. They will not be able to vote against each other for one simple reason – because they would then go to early elections and not know how it will be. You have 43 votes, so you can accept a normal contract with 43. You already have experience because in one week you change your contract by 180 degrees, so that won't be a problem for you. I really don't see why we shouldn't be honest with taxpayers and tell them what's going on, what they can expect. Then you'll actually calm them down. Then you will actually appease the economists, because they will see that you have a serious purpose, I don't know, to improve the economic situation. And then this statement of the same entrepreneur will again be delivered empty when his contribution concludes with the words: “But only a few sentences in the coalition contract were needed, that no one would still believe that this will ever happen.” The damage was done, the only way to remedy this damage is to accept a coalition treaty, one that will reflect what you said today. Not what's currently in the coalition contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot. Get Janja the Servant ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Even before the 13th Government of the Republic of Slovenia was approved, the economic, entrepreneurial and various interest groups ended up due to the content of the coalition contract, more specifically due to one indent and two measures, i.e. the potential classification of income from capital and income into the income scale and the possible rise in the contribution rate for employers. In my opinion, all these discussions were absolutely premature and without a proper view of the overall picture. On the other hand, it is welcome that a broad discussion has taken place, as this kind of debate can ultimately lead to even better solutions. But this does not mean that we do not take the commitments of the coalition treaty seriously, but that we must read it as a whole. In the discussion on the tax aspects and the fear that followed, many entrepreneurs said - and this was confirmed yesterday by the Committee on the Economy - that, in the event of a change in capital taxation, they would move their business to other countries. I am certainly saddened by the fact that no one wants to weaken the position of entrepreneurs and the economy, but rather the goal of all coalition partners is to maintain a successful business environment and a highly competitive economy. Fortunately, the public and media debate, following the initial hysteria, also focused on a more calm tone. In one of the media contributions we could even track the view of an Italian entrepreneur who opened his company in Slovenia and believes that the Slovenian economic environment is even better than what Italy provides. This is not just about the level of taxes but about the entire ecosystem. I would therefore like to point out that we must not focus on just one measure, on one tree in the forest. This is just as bad as general speaking, that nothing is right, that nothing works. It is a constant question of how the planned measures will work together in combination. I therefore wonder why there was not as much emphasis as there was on tax aspects, including on other provisions and objectives of the coalition treaty, which inter alia, I quote, the coalition partners want: "To ensure the continuation of the successful development of the Slovenian economy with a clear focus on modern, knowledge-based technologies with high added value, environmental and people-friendly and sustainable orientation." I hope that all coalition partners are aware of the importance of a strong economy, a favourable business environment and the need to ensure a favourable economic climate that will ensure further economic growth. The severe economic crisis that swept us several years ago is still a fresh memory to forget the importance of economic activity in our society. The consequences at the time were the weakest and most vulnerable in our society, a great deal of people then lost their jobs, and we must not allow ourselves to be surprised by such a crisis again. In short, no one denies the importance and value of the economy, because a country that has good economic growth has a strong economy, taking into account the principle of solidarity, it also provides free public education, equal access to health services, long-term care, social rights and other subsystems. Yesterday, on the Committee by representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and other interest groups, we have heard several times that it is necessary to remove administrative and bureaucratic barriers and simplify procedures to facilitate business conditions and increase the attractiveness of the business environment. Just after presenting these views of the relevant stakeholders and groups, I found that their demands and the objectives set by the coalition partners actually have a lot of points of reference. Thus, one of the clear commitments of the Coalition Treaty is the removal of administrative barriers and the simplification of procedures with a view to quicker decision-making. We are aware of the value of time and speed in economic processes and how high damage can occur when different procedures, such as putting facilities into space, take disproportionately long and eventually drive away potential investors who cannot afford many years of waiting. It is also necessary to attach to the claim of the economy that Slovenia is over-normalised, that there are simply too many rules that make it difficult or even impossible to predict the business environment. That is why another coalition commitment is to rewind existing legislation with a test of its need and usefulness. It will be essential to engage in constructive dialogue with all stakeholders and to seek mutual solutions for employers, workers, pensioners and other stakeholders. We must have a strong and advanced economy that will be able to defend and prepare for any new economic crisis, but at no time should we forget that we have written in the Constitution that Slovenia is a social state. Our job is to preserve and develop this country. It is also important to implement the other measures set out in the Coalition Treaty, such as raising minimum wages, raising minimum pensions, providing affordable public health without waiting lines, providing a fund for renting apartments for young families, of course within the scope and sustainability of the budget and taking into account the fiscal rule. Coalition partners also want the technological and development breakthrough of Slovenia, as business representatives pointed out several times yesterday. I am confident that, when further dialogue is held, we will come directly to the stakeholders with the appropriate measures, which will also ensure that they are carried out. Today, however, it is also from the proposed views that we are discussing that there is no social dialogue at this time. Of course, we can't have that. We expect the Government to continue to conduct social dialogue, and on the stakeholders it is up to the Government to provide a time in which it will prepare a whole set of measures, both tax and economic, and to the public, to present a comprehensive framework not only of objectives, but of concrete measures with clearly defined time dynamics, which will undoubtedly also take into account the time it would possibly take to adapt the economy to the proposed changes. However, all measures should be geared towards ensuring a better business environment that enhances the competitiveness of the economy, taking into account the principle of solidarity and all aspects of the principles of the social state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Janja Slug has the word to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that those who still insist on monitoring this meeting despite that interim interruption have come up now, as we say in Celje, that it is a single performance for the public, for the cameras and for the microphones here today. In the drawing of this session, when you look at it in detail, you see that it is a lot of generalisations, a lot of inconsistencies, and I do expect this from the biggest opposition party and the SNS, but I have to say that I was very surprised because Nova Slovenija joined because my experience with them is still a little different. Mr. Logar said that we are obviously blind and deaf and so on and that the government can always, if memory does not deceive me, stifle the economy; if I remember correctly. Yes, you've already done very well. The government can stifle the economy and you are not only blind and deaf today, but it is also a walking memory. Because at the time you led the government and when it was economic growth, with some hands-on and reckless measures you have wasted everything we have created until then. Everything. And of course, today you like to be a customer of the all-knowing, but at the time you weren't, and you'd be right to remember that. For my understanding, it is distasteful, unacceptable for a member of the National Assembly to afford statements on Twitter, as afforded by his fellow Member. The second time it might be better if, when he intends to let go, he goes to bed some night and then the next morning he thinks again whether he will actually write it down or not, but I believe it has taught him. But it is true that such writings then triggered this snowball, which is now rolling and rolling and rolling and does not stop, which is actually harmful to all of us, but most of all for the economy. Because all such arguments, all such ping-pongs in general, without data, with deception, with exaggeration, are harmful to us all, for our citizens and citizens, for our economy, and especially for us sitting here complaining about how we have lost all respect for politicians, how no one values politicians anymore. Yeah, of course not. Not like that. Not with that kind of debate. And we won't get it back. Never. I have said at one of the previous meetings, the coalition treaty is important, but it is not the most important. It is important that the signature of this document is followed by measures. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Action. Measures that will advocate financial sustainability, which, on the other hand, will also examine the impact on the economy and which will arise, as our Minister of Restoration has shown in the previous mandate, with constant dialogue, with openness to proposals. I've been in the field with him a number of times, visiting him, and what I'm hearing about these visits is how the Minister is open, how he's always available, how he's ready to talk, and not least by establishing a professional body as an advisory body he's shown it again. In this body there are representatives of all stakeholders who must also be there. At the meetings, I believe, at the debates in this body, that all the problems that must be faced will be exposed. If I go back to hurting us like this again. Every year I sit at the opening of the International Trade Fair in Celje. I was there this year, just like many of you, when they were speaking as speakers, this year was the President of the Republic, and he was the mayor, and he was the President of the Chamber of Commerce. Every year at this international trade fair in Celje, one partner country was Serbia. This means a country with which more economic cooperation is sought. All exhibitors are present at the opening, and then there are people coming for a pay phone who are behind other strangers, guests, partners, potential partners explaining loudly and clearly what is wrong with us, what is wrong with us, what is wrong with us, what is wrong with us, just as we are doing today. Finally, they say: “Let us hope that at the end of this fair a number of new jobs will be concluded.” Yeah, they won't. Not like that. And that's how damage is done, like damage is done with such records, with such interferences, with such meetings at the end of the day. Of course, it's a nice attitude to defend the economy. Every wise government defends him because it is aware of his importance, and we can all agree here. But let's be honest. Do people who have power, influence, and money really need someone to find them some circuits in search of truth and justice? Or do they? Who really needs advocacy? You know who. Workers need it, which in some successful companies work for very low wages, often only slightly above the minimum. It is also needed by small shareholders who are erased because of some tykun games, and they also need it, as the leader of the opposition would say, second-rate citizens who raise their mail and submit documents on their property. They actually need someone to stand up for them, who would put them in the first shot on the news and on the headlines of the newspapers. But of course they can't blackmail and threaten you, so everything's quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko, representative of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll say this: Your Honour, do you know what the greatest damage is? The greatest damage for the economy and also for any company we attract in Slovenia is through such a coalition contract, which you have written and signed. That's what's causing the biggest damage. I don't know, hearing words like the coalition contract is important, but it's not the most important thing – yes, I mean, what does it matter to you if not the coalition contract? You signed it because you agreed to take action. I mean, it's just over everything. Really. I'm going to say again, I'm sorry, because obviously we don't listen, we don't debate, because it's not always everyone in the hall, and then one thing has to happen again. It was once again exposed: a constant dialogue as Mr Restorationšek advocates a permanent dialogue. I agree, but still, respectable SMC, during your government, the Economic and Social Council left the Association of Employers of Slovenia precisely because there was no dialogue. So please don't move around here. Again, the Expert Council was welcomed for a competitive and stable business environment. Once again, I'm defending him, too, I'm right behind it, but put him on the government, not under the Ministry of Economy. Because the well-respected Minister of Economy has too few words in this government. In my opinion, the first person to be with the Prime Minister should be, but unfortunately, that's not the case. Unfortunately, many other measures fall under other resources. The same expert council alone, without the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Education being present, will have no difficulty, because they will not be able to agree on anything related to the economy at all. And if you put so much emphasis on that, then put it to the level that such a thing deserves. That's the least you can do. The SMC isn't new now to learn new things. You have been for some time now, and it seems completely inappropriate for me to have to repeat some things. Again we heard that this was all premature, that it was without a glimpse into an integral picture. Yeah, probably the Fiscal Council looked at the coalition contract as an integral image, what they could understand from it, and based on that he also made an assessment. Not on the basis of one single measure, he looked at the overall picture. And nothing is premature, the coalition treaty is signed, and he tells us it's premature to talk about it. I don't know when we're going to get a complete picture and an insight into all the actions, the timeline and so on? [[…]] When can we expect that, then? Sure, yeah, 'cause for you, it's all a show for the public. Have you asked yourself how many economists have been upset since the end of August, since this coalition contract of yours in public? How many of them must have knocked on your door and tried to make a deal with you? This is not a performance for the public, you've launched the show for the public with your coalition contract. And you didn't respond to that. You haven't responded despite the call. What else do we have? We asked the President of the National Assembly to respond to this, but he didn't. Yes, then, in the opposition, we requested a meeting to discuss these things, but maybe we should shed some light and, I don't know, take Slovenia on the right path. Otherwise, these measures were discussed at the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Employers' Association, at all major economic offices, everywhere. And it's nothing premature, it's perfectly normal. After all, the consequences of the coalition agreement will be known on the economy. Also on September 12th, the Administrative Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia specifically discussed the coalition contract and the macroeconomic picture of this coalition contract. Most said that the new coalition treaty would not, of course, be an important document that would have a strong impact on the economy's business in the coming years. They have publicly pointed out what measures are at stake. And that's not something we should have talked about. It is right to speak, but it is also right to find the right solutions, so we have put this, not least, on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The SDS party is not surprised, it is consistent in its policy, unfortunately with New Slovenia, with which we have spoken the same language several times, but since the President is not Mrs Ludmila Novak, the party is going in such a very strange direction. I won't comment on the SNS. But, look, I've listened all the time, mostly to the obvious on the left, and it's time to answer some things. The SDS is concerned about the hate speech. Look at him, the party that invented the hate speech that he generates in all of his media, which pretends to retouch – they care. Of course they don't worry, they don't call a meeting if, say, their best friend Rok Snezič, who helps them with money for the campaign, says on 24ur.com: "Give it up, entrepreneurs, within ten days I can register a company in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the country is not on the list of tax havens, so Slovenia can't record you, the lowest salary is « Thank you for recording, colleague, it's very good, share to see you. [[…]] “The lowest salary is EUR 250 and only EUR 100 contributions.” Great! You're legalizing slavery. But who in Bosnia and Herzegovina has a pension from these workers? Why does Akrapovich have 150 migrant workers from Bosnia in Montenegro today? Because such snowmen there organise Slovenian entrepreneurs to exploit people for 250 euros. Unacceptable. And you say you work for the good of the people! Poor people. And then you are disturbed by profits taxes – of course you are disturbed, you have set up a bad bank, through which land is easily sold through intermediaries who are “accidentally” members of the SDS party. In 2010, Vlado Petek, who was a candidate for mayor of Vrhnika, owned the company Svet Re, which earned a million euro in 15 minutes. In 15 minutes, he was the owner when he sold the land for a Japanese company. Untaxed because he ordered it as a loan. That's how he avoids taxes, and here we're losing money that should go to the pension box, and our pensioners live in cold apartments, hungry. And that's why we don't have money for health care, education and other subsystems. Why? Because some will say that they are the only ones working, all the other sloths are called nurses, teachers, obstetricians, and teachers are—what? [[…]] Lenuhi. Excuse me, colleagues and colleagues, this is embarrassing, not only is it not Christian when we're talking about it. The pope also warned you, but if I should quote him, Francisek of 2013 writes in paragraph 56 that “the desire for power and property does not know the limits in this system, which tends to swallow up everything that stands in the way of increasing profits, which is fragile, such as the environment, is without defence against market interests, and this has become the only rule”. Of course, it's for you – what? The Socialist Pope? Jesus Christ was a socialist, just like we were in Levic. And when Tonin tells us how unbearable Luke the Moon is, how could he have said that Akrapovich was not in Afghanistan — Luke the Moon did not make that up. Come on, what are you reading, people? [[…]] This is what respected economist Jože P. Damian said; that entrepreneurs and employers went to barricades and doubts about their heroic contribution to the country's creation as a hate speech. Why isn't Akrapovich in Afghanistan? Because that's where the country doesn't work, respected and respected. And it doesn't work anywhere. And here we worry that, I quote Jozet P. Damian: "They have an idea and you have an endless respect for it, and we respect it, too, but in order to come up with this idea, someone had to finance the training of this entrepreneur." Me? “He also had to finance the training of his employees, then someone had to finance all the infrastructure to his factory and highway and railways and telecommunications and so on, and they are not parasites, they are essential subsystems of society. Someone who has to take care of organised health services, someone who is concerned that mobs do not destroy them, unfair competition, someone who cares that there is a financial sector that finances the development and production of their products and services, that someone is concerned that they can protect their interests and challenge their rights in the courts," and so on and so on. All that can work, and these managers, it's not from God given, it's out there in heaven to give them, and now they're gods in which we can't cut down justice, but it's the work of all together. Of course, Slovenia is not an isolated part of the world, the OECD reminds us that we need to arrange this, and any country that taxes profits less than 12.5% can be considered a tax haven. In 2017, Boscarol paid 14% of the profits to the country in taxes, Akrapovič 8.7% and Pecčečnik 6.5. Some companies do not pay any profits at all, and these are: Pivovarna Laško, Goodyear, SIJ, Lidl, Hella Saturnus, Revoz and so on. We're running out of money here to go to our citizens. With this, entrepreneurs will be no less entrepreneurial and no less motivated, but they will be fairly taxed. It is understandable, of course, that at the time of the economic crisis that we solved in the poorest, in the pensioners, in the workers, in the poor, in the tightening of the belts of Time, it is to stop this – saving on the poorest. [[…]] For at the time we helped the economy, we knew that the economy was the wagon that took us out, and so was it. But of course the SDS will rather see that their entrepreneurs, who are associated with them, are so beautifully avoided by taxes. [[…]] For example, Janez Janša himself has appointed Mrs Tanja Petek to oversee the Council of the Housing Fund and the Council is registered in the tax haven of Gibraltar – how do you even have the face to call meetings and say what you are saying to our account, which we finally want to enable citizens to have smooth access to civilizational acquisitions? But not to be Americanized, where when a person gets a severe illness, a severe diagnosis, rather a neck sting, because he should sell the house where his children live. You want to take us there? No, thank you, we can't actually let that happen. The 28 countries of the European Union have already called on the European Parliament's Commission to assess economic policy not only in the light of the impact of GDP but also in the light of the impact on human well-being, resource use, inequality and decent work. These indicators must be taken into account, respected and respected. And where is the beginning of this story? The beginning of this story is before the elections. It's not a coalition contract that would just suddenly raise the economists. It started there when you posted on posters in addition to anti-migrant content: Less taxes, more for you! Jujuhu – did you attribute to them that when you have more than 100 euros in the living room, when you come for a review, you will have to pay 3 euros or you will have to pay yourself? You didn't tell them that. And then that incredible confrontation where economists were questioning politicians, who were going to give them more services. You know, and then you say that the country is a bad master, that everything needs to be sold out, of course with good commissions as evidence, they're here. Country — Who Is the State? We are citizens and citizens and politicians. These citizens have always chosen policies that work against their interests – why? Because they finance such policies and such parties through various types of contracts and different ones, and this is allowed, and no one looks at it from near where some customers get money and then who they represent here in Parliament – the interests of our citizens and citizens certainly not. Let us say this clearly, and please, what did Mrs Janja Slug say earlier – where did you face such topics and attack others, because in fact at a time when you had the opportunity to run the government, as Mrs Slug said, you have wasted everything? From the first government of Janez Janša 2004 to 2008, the balance of trade went down by 225 million, international reserves fell by 5,000 836 million, foreign reserves by 6 000 744, net external debt increased by 7 thousand 271 million and gross external debt by 24 thousand 946 million. By tomorrow morning, I could explain to you why it's not fair and it's not fair what you're doing right now, and I'm not going to, because I'm going to leave other colleagues a few more minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic, prepare for Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u75	Your Honor! When I listen to these discussions today, I can say: there is hope for Slovenia, there is hope for all of us. Mainly because Levica began to read the Bible and to quote Pope Francis. I have to say, I'm really happy and there's really hope. [[advertising from the hall]] So, it's no problem just like you said, pay or whatever you got, but the problem in this country is poor employees. [[…]] That's the biggest problem. They're the most! [[advertising from the hall]] That's the most of them. And it is not the solution in the family's budget to increase social transfers. Is that a solution? No, it's not a solution. It's normal to pay a man to survive his work and his family. This is what we say all the time in New Slovenia. It's a previous term. And you said, colleague Tomić: “You have wasted everything.” But I'm going to say, it's been four years since the law on the seizure of illegally acquired property began to be implemented. Where did we end up with that marriage? We all know where — in the Constitutional Court or whatever. But you had scissors and linen to make it different in this country so that workers could have more decent wages in this country. We have always been constructively confronted with suggestions on how and with calculations, so it seems to me that today's session is based on statements – not articles, because the articles did not come from themselves, but these were statements by influential people in Slovenia – what will happen to the economy This was the result and I feel like we want to have a session to burn lights on microphones, extremely inappropriate. [[…]] Because if we're doing a meeting for the lights on the microphones, then it's called, just before we go to the polls, just like the Celje boiler meeting was called, and four years ago, nothing. I think that's unfair. But if you warn constructively from the beginning when the government comes, what are the measures, it seems to me that this is a constructive opposition that wants everyone in this country to be better. Everybody's better. We and those we have at home and neighbors and farmers and workers. There's too many workers, yes, and they're underpaid. And we're not gonna solve anything like that. They can only stay at home if we go with the rhetoric that you've prepared. It seems to me that the problem is poor employees and is not a solution to social transfers and enlargements.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Please proceed with procedure, Mrs. Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'd really like to ask if my colleague Dimic would be warned that the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley is not today's topic. And I also relied on your delegation's support for the resolution of the Celje Valley and the adoption of the law for the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley, because you promised it. You promised her, and then you obstructed the session, and the Celians will remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u78	Mr. Vojko Starović has the floor to prepare the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! Seems to me a little bit like we're mixing some of the old ones up and throwing them all in the same basket. Look, I have taxes on selected countries, profit tax, OECD data, and income tax – we mix this up. We have a 17% profit tax, while the countries of Norway, the Netherlands, Austria by 25, Germany by 30, Slovakia 22 as I managed to hear today we are at 17%. [[…]] That's what we pay as a legal person, like a company. And then, something else is when we take dividends or money for our own use or for other purposes from our own company or from a share company, and then we have this tax 25%. If we kept reading, we would see that – many entrepreneurs know this, I, when I was an entrepreneur, also knew well, and when I was also a director of companies, always as much as this tax – this tax is reduced by 5% every five years. After 20 years, it's nothing. So we, as far as this is concerned, are the most favourable among the most favourable countries, as far as the tax on this income is concerned, the tax on profits. If I go back to profit tax, we have a series of reliefs that bring an effective rate to 11%, while in Europe the average effective rate is 20%. We from taxes – public sector shares, the share of taxes on gross social product is 37.3, which is lower than the average of Europe, 38.5. When we talk about data, it is nice to talk about data that hold, which are from some statistics, Eurostat, also our Umar. Look at this, because you've already listed it, which is where we're at, so where does this alarmingly come from, how do we have the terrible, how do we pick it all up? In doing so, I would like to point out that this euphoria is not the fault of the coalition agreement, but someone has pointed out and interpreted these matters in his own way in a very simple way that does not really matter, and has sold them through newspapers, performances and even to the general public today. The reaction was understandable. It's just interesting that this reaction didn't come from any big companies, from any big company. There was only one from high school. I didn't see it anywhere. The associations came by. It's not there. We need to know that we have large companies and medium-sized enterprises that are the bearers of this economy in Slovenia and productivity. Slovenia is different to 85% of average European productivity, while these large and medium-sized companies, which generate 80% of exports, have 82% higher added value per employee compared to the average in Slovenia. It's a lot, isn't it? With this, I do not want to reduce the importance of small craftsmen and these beautiful ones, without them we would have a much worse situation. [[...]] Larger organised companies have normal productivity, smaller, less organised, and at a lower technological level have enabled us to employ. And now this thing is slowly starting to wear down; it's exhausted, we're running out of workers in this pool. They complain a little bit, we search, we say, "Migrations are good too." As we have heard today – that some successful companies also draw workers from elsewhere. But the only possible route is to higher productivity, so to a higher added value to the employee. And here some companies are showing us this way, just because of better technological equipment they're less employed. And I say, thank God, the family companies, the twists in here assured us that we have in Slovenia, that our employment is increasing and that we are less unemployed. That is why at this point I do not really see the real basis for such big and alarming words as how this coalition will destroy the economy, what a danger this is now. I don't know if you're looking at data and what's also written and what's going to change in the tax system as such, I'm stressing again, these write-offs, reliefs, here's some thinking, even after the OECD recommendation. [[…]] This is where I am referring to an organisation of which Slovenia is also a member. Before talking about some companies that measure economic freedom and competitiveness, these are private organisations, such as private rating organisations, which assessed the security and security of Slovenia for capital investments and which had previously been very speculative with Slovenia when Slovenia was in difficulty. So I repeat, after taxes on profits, we are, effectively, what we are collecting, in fact, almost champions in Europe and also on income tax, so from when people draw money out for their own needs – if they leave companies, they have the ease when they pull out, and some tax comes in, and now, what percentage of this tax, as far as it goes, is nowhere to be said. I think – because there were comments that this was premature and that there was no real basis for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u80	Here you go, proposer Susana Beautiful Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Of course I have to respond to that. It's not premature. We have a coalition contract. As far as profit tax is concerned, the former government has raised the profit tax from 17% to 19%, which means that we have a 19% profit tax for some time. It is true that businesses pay a lower percentage of profits effectively, because – of course, which is positive, and this has also been highlighted by the current Secretary of State Mrs Vraničar – in the past mandate, we are relieved. However, reliefs are not just for anything, but they are facilities for investing in equipment and facilities for investing in research and development. Yesterday, we also heard from certain Members of the Committee, including members of the Left, that we are underinvesting in research and development. Companies are investing, they can apply a 100 % relief for investing in R & D, and it is very good that we actually have this relief. And of course, then they are also reducing this effective rate, which is right, because because of these investments in additional equipment, in research, in the development of enterprises, they are developing, they are growing, more people are also hiring, they have new jobs, and thus, indirectly or directly, we are also offering prosperity to our citizens and citizens, which is also the right thing to do. That is why I am simply stressing these measures, but it seems to me that we are not operating on the wrong data, and that is why I have highlighted this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, get Joze Lenart ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u83	Only few people have won the Nobel Prize for Economics in this world, one of them is von Hayek. Nobel laureate von Hayek once said: “If leftists had any idea about the economy, they would never be left-handed.” The core of the story we face today is Margaret Thatcher, who said: “The problem with socialism is that foreign money is running out sooner or later.” Ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about taxes, you talk about foreign money. That's not your money. This money had to be created first by someone, someone had to earn it, and then someone at the state level is socialistically imagining that it's from everyone and that they can pick it up indefinitely, and nothing will happen. This, of course, is unprecedented nonsense, what Mr Hayek was talking about. Because what happens in practice? In fact, tax policy is a fundamental development element in the hands of the state and represents, together with the rest, what is involved in entrepreneurship, is a real banking system, a judicial system which must operate at an appropriate level, the substance on which capital is directed, the state is developing, entrepreneurship is developing, new productive jobs are opening up. Or they're closing, ladies and gentlemen. And we're at that point. For what has happened that we are discussing this subject today? Some very interesting quotes. Let's take a look at them. Ambassador Miha Kordiš: «Capitalist blackmail of national states is a school presentation of restrictions on reformist policies, as we have managed to overcome them in the coalition contract. A solution? Nationalisation." Pa: “Eviva, Venezuela!” But that was not all, for Mr. Kordish then added this and wrote that entrepreneurs, in his jargon capitalist, therefore entrepreneurs are required by Levika, quote: “Travel to the last white man and then by bayonets to march into the sea.” That's a quote, ladies and gentlemen. A quote from a member of the National Assembly. And that the measure is full, is the main coordinator of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that is Luka Mesec, then the comment by Mr Akrapovic, who said that due to such situations he would probably transfer the balance sheet profit into a more predictable business environment, commented that it was blackmail and an excuse and that it was nothing but tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can pay one euro as a profit unless they pay all taxes to this country first. He even pays a double tax, because you pay a profit tax first, and then you pay it back, and you pay the tax again. That way, together, the country is already taking almost half of what you create as an entrepreneur. But according to the proposal you made in the coalition contract, then it would all count as income, and it would be taxed for the third time, and the country would collect almost two thirds of everything. No normal entrepreneur will remain in such an environment, ladies and gentlemen, that is the most normal thing if someone thinks entrepreneurship. That is to say, if someone thinks foolishly, then they accept such clauses in a coalition contract and are signed under them. It's irresponsible, it's a crime against its own country. But if someone thinks entrepreneurship, they'll look around and they'll go somewhere else. Ladies and gentlemen, this is already happening, this damage is already coming! Not only has Mr Akrapovič announced that he is going elsewhere, this is also announced by Mr Boscarol from Austria, but I have verified the fact that in recent weeks the number of those interested as directors or owners of Slovenian companies has increased not to rent, but that the purchase of real estate in Austria for the transfer of the company to Austria for more than- and more times, is a matter of dozens of the most successful Slovenian companies. That is to say, the damage you've caused by your irresponsible shopping is already coming. Not only is what I read earlier, these quotes are hate speech, they are a crime under the Penal Code, they are the promotion and spread of intolerance against entrepreneurship, and the police should act. I therefore ask them publicly whether they have taken this announcement into account and whether they have already taken action against those doing so. Because the damage is already coming. In law, we know the notion that something is irrelevant: material damage. Here, however, it is not material damage, this damage goes to millions of euros at the moment and can eventually grow to billions of dollars and to the total collapse of the Slovenian economy if you are in power for a long time. In every normal country, it is necessary to realize that only entrepreneurship, healthy entrepreneurship is the one that provides the foundation, the foundation of prosperity, the basis of security that provides good, quality jobs that are the basis of the social security of each individual. And in a normal country, the one who works, who opens up new jobs, is also properly rewarded. In socialism, however, a lazy man is rewarded, and new sloths are created or imported as illegal migrants to create new voters. And this is a process that you started very vehemently, then you tried with some guards to divert attention, but that is the essence of the story that is before Slovenia today. The fact is, when left-wings are in power, they don't even distribute wealth, as someone naively imagines, these are fairy tales for small children, left-wings create the poor themselves, so that they hang on to social life and then re-elect them. Because in time, if you do nothing and are punished for your work as you are in such a state of socialism, then it is best that you draw social support at home. Each of you certainly knows dozens of such cases already in Slovenia, and this is then the recycling of socialism, which turns into a spiral of the whole country, and this spiral leads only down to total economic ruin. This is why this is a topic that needs to be discussed, but again and again, ladies and gentlemen, because if Slovenia were a development-oriented country with a development-oriented government, those most successful entrepreneurs would be celebrated, given recognition. I only know one brand in Slovenia that they were familiar with in Japan and spoke with admiration, and this is the brand Akrapovic, ladies and gentlemen. And there's only one brand I know that they were admiringly pronouncing in the United States of America, and that's Akrapovich, ladies and gentlemen. No one talked about Luke Moon or Violet’s brand — I really saw Violet’s brand on some products there in the stall in the neighboring countries, but with those products and stamps, I wouldn’t exactly brag. But, ladies and gentlemen, Akrapovich is a global concept, it is a world brand, he has Slovenia's reputation in the world today, and here a scoundrel allows himself to be made out of such a man to work a fool, to predict that he will be banished by bayonet to the sea, and his boss then says that what this man says as a legitimate and legal defense of his company is called tax evasion. Now, whether he's a complete fool, he has no idea what he's talking about, and the other is he's knowingly lying and so he's being mean, and that's a crime. It's up to you. Besides, I think that, like I said, the police should look very closely. If anything, taxes should be reduced in Slovenia. It is necessary to reduce the tax burden when it comes to work, and it is necessary to relieve entrepreneurship in order not only to preserve what we have, but to attract new investors to encourage entrepreneurs to create new jobs. It is necessary to examine how this is regulated in neighbouring Austria. There you have a whole system of tax reliefs for new businesses, you have a chance to stop, you can choose it yourself, you have a system of lump sums that is assigned, and no one in the country is burdened with what will happen if one euro is left to him – that is the goal! The goal must be that the country of rich individuals, who knows and creates and wants, is also rewarded for this, because in the end it opens a new job and then, of course, also pays taxes, clearly. But in the end, they're all richer, the richer the country, the richer the ones who work, and the richer the owner. It's a smart tax policy. You don't have to go halfway around the world, you just have to look at neighbouring Austria. And this system needs to be transferred here to the greatest extent possible, and it needs to be further developed to be more business friendly than it is in neighbouring Austria, to make this move, this escape stops there, and that maybe one of those who have already left, when they come back or someone else comes in instead. Not only will we read how the BMW now opens a billion-dollar factory with the highest technology and 1000 new jobs in Hungary, but we will also experience this in Slovenia. For the migration, this escape of companies you have caused, ladies and gentlemen, and you are personally responsible for it, either out of ignorance or out of greed, whatever. Such a government is unworthy. This escape causes the company to move abroad and then pays taxes, a wealthy foreign country, there works on investment, opening up new productive jobs. And the most productive part of citizens and citizens goes abroad. Who will you have instead in Slovenia? Welcome refugees, huh? What's really going on. Then you'll be able to pay even more taxes for those who, the poor, would not be able to go, so that you can pay those new ones who will come. And of course, that's what's happening. We can see the number on the Internet. This is a completely flawed and irresponsible policy and therefore this meeting is necessary today, and it is therefore necessary to support what is proposed in it. Above all, be aware of the responsibility to the country and to development; also because I know something of you who are in the governmental ranks, but do not really judge there because you have come from entrepreneurship, and you know that this is still true, what I am talking about, but you are now wondering what you are actually doing in such a government where you will be excused for leftwing and for fleeing capital, for destroying entrepreneurs, for leaving entrepreneurs from Slovenia. Ask those questions, and be aware that the shared responsibility of everyone is to create a favourable environment for entrepreneurship, that entrepreneurship will be valued, that entrepreneurship will be burdened and that unnecessary bureaucratic procedures, which further burden entrepreneurship, will be abolished. This is the point – to ease the burden of work, to relieve all citizens and citizens when it comes to tax burdens, and to relieve entrepreneurship. Only this is the path that leads to development, this is the path that leads to a safe Slovenia, Slovenia of prosperity. And that's all Slovenia deserves.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Natasha Sukich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u85	Dear President, I ask you to give a reminder to the debater who is discrediting one of the fellow Members of Parliament with measuring devices, such as a snotter and the like. This is simply unacceptable, such personal discredit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much, but I would suggest that we proceed. Jože Lenart has the word, and Jani Prednik is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u87	Honourable Presidents, Minister, Secretary, Secretary, Colleagues and Colleagues! Today, we are exposing individual envisaged measures under the coalition agreement with a strong populist call, which we can also take as a good, positive one. At this time of our exposure to fears, however, the Government or ministries are fully operational and are recalculating and analysing all the measures envisaged for the preparation of the sustainable budget of the Republic of Slovenia 2019 and looking for directions for the following years in view of the gradual implementation of measures with the effects of the restructuring of the tax reform. This can probably be confirmed today by Mrs Vraničnik, Minister of Rest and Secretary – that she is doing well. My opinion is that it is definitely necessary to wait, and only then will we be able to discuss clearly what these effects represent. This is essential and good that we start working immediately to set the conditions for progress on the scale. This is what we all want, as Mr Horvat said earlier. Slovenia needs a comprehensive tax reform to achieve tax restructuring and shift burdens from social security contributions to income workers and to less distortion taxes such as VAT and property taxes. A comprehensive tax reform will at least have to be fiscally neutral and in line with the fiscal rule of the country. I'll point that out. Population in Slovenia is rapidly ageing as by 2050 more than 30% of the population over 65 years of age are expected to be one of the largest shares in the OECD countries. In Slovenia, older workers leave the labour market too quickly. A well-designed income system is the basis of a tax system that favours inclusive economic growth. In OECD countries, an average of 25% of total income is collected by income and only 14% in Slovenia. On the contrary, social security contributions in OECD countries average 26% of total tax revenues and only 40 in Slovenia. By extending the income base, Slovenia has the opportunity for tax restructuring to shift the burden from social security contributions to income. There is also the possibility of tax restructuring on capital income taxes at individual level. In addition to the extension of the income base, there is also the possibility of reducing social security contributions by extending the VAT base and by strengthening the role of property tax while reducing the role of income in the funding structure of municipalities. I have read here a summary of the OECD study findings, this is called the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, this is not mine, but we can all read it. Slovenia is a sovereign country and we can hear these findings, but I do not recommend this at all. And now I'm going to ask myself, I'm going to say, our coalition contract, or our positions here, which were presented, how different these positions are from what we've read here, which the OECD has also found and recommended. In any way, the restructuring of the tax system is absolutely necessary and will be implemented. Any way. For two essential reasons, because we are significantly moving away from the average of the European Union and in the long term this is an unsustainable, current system we have. And secondly, we need to take preventive action for the following reasons: because our society is old, we are an ageing society, we have also found that in these positions, I will further stress that the departure of young experts is abroad, and this third area, digitisation, technological development, industrial revolution. This is what we are talking about in terms of universal core income, and this is what we are inevitably following. This is said to be further followed by tax reforms, not just for us, the whole of Europe and the whole world. Therefore, once again, let us work preventively, not only what is today, and I think that Slovenia, past policies have been lost here because we were not prepared for future action where the world is going, and we must take all this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word to prepare Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u89	President, thank you for your word. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Given that I am an optimist by nature, I will say that I am pleased that at least six members of the proposalr are sitting down, and I will not say that I am saddened. These nebulos, the untruths, there were so many lies today that we probably can't even list them all. It was said that if we were left-handed for a long time, the economy would collapse. On the same side, we hear that we have been in power for a long time and the economy has not yet collapsed and has very high economic growth, so it will not hold. As for the economists, I went to watch a little history, one and the same economists always exert preventive pressure on the future left government before the left government. So it was in 2011, and then you took over the government, and in 2014 it was the same and now in 2018 the story repeats itself. As for the hate speech, which was also mentioned on the right hand side, we would rather not discuss it. We were told to ignore the economy. It is likely that government representatives, both the Secretary of State and the Minister, disagree, and probably no one agrees that we are ignoring the economy. It was said by a colleague of Horvath that we are on the 71st page of economic freedom – that is true, but it should be stressed that we were two years back to 97, which means that we have taken a step forward. The colleague's point of view on Social Democrats was that we are not meeting the requirements of craftsmanship and entrepreneurship. If you think that by calling a threesome years ago you have been doing this sector some good, you are deeply wrong. It has also been said that we need a good economy — absolutely, which is probably what we all agree on. However, I hope that we also agree that we need well-paid and skilled workers for a well-functioning economy. I hope you agree with me here, just as I agree with you in the first part. Because of Mr Akrapovic's ideas, workers have a job – absolutely, but Mr Akrapovich also has profits due to the workers they work for him. For the ideas he has, without workers, Mr Akrapovich and the others, of course, would not have. I believe that Mr Akrapovich and the others are aware of this. I am pleased that, I will say, a small storm that raged over the subject of its attitude towards the economy fell through, even through a public debate, and that a debate on the committee responsible was similarly cleared up yesterday. I think that we or everyone has received the messages, and I hope that the future dialogue will be approached with more mutual respect from all sides and from all involved. All, both on the left and on the right, must be aware that our words have consequences. This summer, including my criticism, to my colleague Kordiša, who should be aware that he is a Member, is a public person and every record of him, either on Twitter or on Facebook or anywhere – not only his, but the records of all of us – have either good or bad consequences. For the sake of future public debates, we can all learn something from the events of these last few weeks, not just from us Members, which, of course, as I said, we must choose the words and context in which we say or write. When reacting to these so - called provocations, it is also appropriate to consider how powerful tools will be or will be used. I think that the Committee's debate has also made it clear that there is a stable and predictable economic environment in which improvements are made through cooperation and dialogue, in the interest of all of us, both politics, economies and everyone else. In view of the statements and behaviours of all, it is not necessary to doubt that we all want to go towards the economy and not against the economy, as we have repeatedly heard from the proposer today. That's what we all want, because it's good for everyone. I am pleased that representatives of the economy on yesterday's committee have also called for a constructive dialogue with which to take a step forward for the benefit of all, capital or if you want economies, countries and not to forget people in particular, people are important. What the representatives of the economy called for was predictability. I also agree with this, both personally and the Social Democrats, and, of course, we expect such an approach by the Social Democrats, even when the problems facing employees and other workers are being solved, because they too are living in constant uncertainty, not just capital, and probably workers are less resistant and more vulnerable to these changes on the market than capital, which is still a little more secure. I therefore hope that in this mandate, with a more respectful tone and even a more constructive dialogue, we will try to improve this economic environment in Slovenia for all those who want more stability, I repeat, also for workers who help create this added value, which is so much debate in the last days. Tax and tax reforms and tax restructuring and other changes are also planned, and in particular in order to relieve workers and workers, but not in order to harm others, it is necessary to make this clear and loud. If we approach the debate this way, I am sure that we will find solutions for both sides of the equation, both for capital and for the worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I congratulate Mr Prednik on finally being one of the members of the coalition who condemned Mr Kordis' rhetoric. I am also glad that we have made progress on the economic freedom ladder — but where is the problem? Our problem and problem with the government is that we are 146th on the scale of a country or a parastat. There's only 15 left of us to Venezuela. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič has the word to prepare Jani Ivanuša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! First, I will read one part of our President Mir Cerar's statement, which he gave a few days ago: “In the government, I will raise my voice, which will go towards supporting the economy, but at the same time, because we are a socialliberal party, I will raise my voice for all those who are unable to live in our country and need more support.” Why did I read that? Because I will be here, here, in the National Assembly and on the Committees, the voice of both, that is, the economies and workers that have not been mentioned so far. We Members cannot turn to just one side, we cannot represent only economies, because there is no economy without workers. We are the ones who need to know how to connect, that is, we and the Government know how to connect work, workers, the economy, and at the same time we need to take the country into account. You know we have to reduce public debt in order to comply with the fiscal rule. A few of these things are that we need to analyze and together find the right solutions, the right balance. I am sure that we will succeed in the SMC and the wider government, that is, because we also have a very competent and experienced Minister of Economy and the ministerial team is actually going to be the same as it was in this mandate, and it will certainly not work differently than it is now that it has successfully managed the economic sector and has brought quite a few investments into Slovenia. As I said, there are no companies without workers and vice versa, of course, workers can't do anything without businesses, so we can't do it without each other. However, not much has been said on this subject today, so today's biggest problem of companies is not taxes, but the staff, how to obtain, acquire, retain the best personnel. All of this will be or is even the biggest challenge of the economy and of us. So how better to pay them, how to stimulate them. For only raising the minimum wage, which is also enshrined in the coalition contract, will not be enough. In the SMC, we will certainly strive not to make the situation worse in the economy, but to strengthen it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša has the word to prepare Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u95	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would still warn the president, I'm Ivánusha, I'm not Ivanúš, so much to know. We have talked a lot about numbers today, so it's irrelevant or we've heard so much about them today that they're actually superfluous. We went to the polls. Before the elections, we have listened to how we will all work for the benefit of citizens and citizens, and that is obviously not the case today. As soon as the coalition was formed, a completely different situation had arisen and it would obviously continue to do so. But first of all, I'm going to say that for the first time in the National Assembly. On yesterday's Committee on the Economy, I listened to the debaters and representatives of the ministries of finance and economy, and they said well. The profession did not participate in the drafting of this coalition contract, this is worth stressing. The words of both Secretaries of State, as far as I heard them, were reassuring in this direction, but this is only a matter of guidance in this Treaty. Obviously, then, if we hear it on the one hand today, on the other hand, that it is not accurately evaluated, what it means, then such a contract does not mean much to my mind, and you can throw it away or throw it away. I would say that, in the case of minority governments like in Slovenia today, if it is good for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, then there is no problem at all, you will also get support from the opposition side. But as far as I can tell, this contract is no longer five plus one, but it's more one plus five. Yesterday's debate, when we spoke on the committee, gave me some direction. On the left hand side, it was said that Slovenia is not a social state. The party's welcome move ahead of the elections was to raise social transfers to just under €400, which was more in terms of elections – but what happened? Young boys, workers, people who are out of jobs, anyway, say, "Yes, I get something under €400, and I'm going to do a little black work for two days and I'm about the sum that's the basic net salary of the worker." And it's a huge mistake of young people, you don't get a job, you just say, "I'd rather be home doing something." And there people burn out at an eight-hour workshop, which are employed, of course, and they get their basic net salary, and they work on the norm, of course. For example, we saw in agriculture, fruit farming, wine growing, that there are simply no workers for harvesting, and then there is the situation that we import or drive daily from less developed countries to clean up our crops in Slovenia. I will stress, however, that the recipients of social transfers need to be separated from those who really need and are not able to do the job and those who are merely exploiting or speculating. These matters also need to be changed once. With regard to the statements made by the Left, we cannot talk about any sobriety, for yesterday's committee has shown that they are serious, because they are representatives of the Chambers, which is said to all those present on yesterday's committee, across the table to say that the tax measures mentioned will certainly have to be taken and faced with them. I mean, of course, Mr Luka Mesac, who stressed this. In our wine-growing areas in the east, we sometimes drink some spruce, wine, Jerusalemese, and we are sober the next day, so I suggest – and I will not offend anyone, I apologize in advance – that the representatives of the Left should be asked to carry out control or a drug test, because I am referring to the fact that one day they are sobered up and the other day they are not sorry. We have even been told yesterday that the opposition is only discussing the demagogue, but I believe that the statements that have been made represent only the fact that the representatives of the Party of the Left have launched in public recently. The statements have led to the excitement of the economic sector. One such example I can now say for myself: from our places, over the night, Sampl, d. o.o., from Formin, the Austrian owner Hugo, this is the owner of the Vrzeta, simply closed production overnight and placed 25 workers overnight on the stock exchange. It's only because of such negative statements or such a tendency. In the Slovenian National Party, we stress that the Slovenian economy is overloaded. In any event, there are reserves in the public sector as well as in countless NGOs funded from the state budget, and they contribute nothing. In the Slovenian National Party, we support both the recommendations made yesterday by the Committee on the Economy and also today in the National Assembly, and we hope that the harmful statements made by the representatives of the Left will no longer appear in public. I hope that Luka Mesec will no longer shoot himself in the knee with his statements, and I also tell him that he lives in Slovenia and not on the Moon. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to Mr Jerne Vrtovac, I inform you that, following his discussion, I will suspend the meeting, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for the purpose of consulting the leaders of the groups on the follow-up to the meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u97	Thank you, Chairman. The key issue in this debate today is not what we initially heard, why we are here today, but what Slovenia we want. The kind of Slovenia we want. But if you want the answer, why are we here today, you can get it, we're here because of a coalition treaty that is what it is, and because we're coming into the schizophrenic situation and radicality of the Left. But if a man already understands the radical statements of the Left, because it is a left-wing radical party and we are used to it, I do not understand that the five presidents of coalition parties may have signed such stories as are enshrined in this coalition treaty. And suddenly we came into a schizophrenic situation — what? That he is the chief advocate of the coalition contract, Levits, which is not a coalition party. Can you imagine? The left is the one who defends what is written in this coalition contract. On the other hand, the SD says "advanced", the LMŠ says "wait for the government to come together" – what have you signed?Oh, my God! What have you been doing for two months?Oh, my God! What were you guys talking about?Oh, my God! About what? Yeah, about these things, what you wrote down and what you signed. Thank God you just don't agree with it anymore at once, but that kind of attitude towards a coalition contract means only one thing, yes, I don't know. It means you don't know what you're doing. [[…]] Easy. And there are schizophrenic statements among the Members of Parliament and representatives of the Government. And here I will remember, at the beginning there were Members who had not yet been taught how to act – here I will expose you, Mrs. Hefferle, by the way, now the camera will show you not to chew during the session – at the beginning you spoke, look [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. At first you said: “No, for what is written will hold, but let us wait a little longer.” Then things came in the opposite direction without tail and head, and this coalition contract today I don't know if it's valid or not. We didn't sign this, you signed it! And if I go back, why is this meeting, because we can't watch it hit the Slovenian economy. Because that's not the way it's supposed to work. The coalition treaty itself is certainly a bad signal and we have simply had to react because of this bad signal, and if politics is serious, even to the relevant statements, radical statements must be answered. Now for the natural and legal persons. As to how much this coalition treaty, the measures that have been written down would have burdened the economy in the past days, there has also been much written down and much said by the economists, and here I would have asked the Secretary of State to respond further to the debate, namely, on the Fiscal Council, the answer to the Fiscal Council and how you would actually be able to achieve the desires of the Coalition Treaty, in accordance with the fiscal rule. You said yesterday: “Usually, the coalition contract was only one way we drew it”, we take the coalition contract in a different way, so that what we write will be done. Our only wish was to define the date. Okay. As to how these measures would affect even natural persons, examples. In fact, this coalition contract would not only affect companies, which have already been calculated, but also natural persons, for sure. First, a person with a monthly gross salary of EUR 000 200, who receives a minimum regression, and who also receives a dividend of EUR 250, is already at a disadvantage of EUR 5 and it is not a rich person, we are talking about a thousand EUR 200 gross salary. Secondly, a person without children with 1.5 times the average Slovenian salary, who receives a minimum regression, is renting an apartment for a monthly rent of 600 euros, a difference: minus 583 euros. Thirdly, an individual with a high monthly gross salary of EUR 8 000, who receives a minimum regression and also receives dividends of as much as EUR 16 000 -- very nice, because – at the end of the year, he would be in the minus of EUR 4 000. And a person without children with an average Slovenian salary, who receives a minimum regression, is renting an apartment for a monthly rent of EUR 400, loses at the end of the year 86.40 euros. This is the statement of the coalition contract. Not just for business. As for businesses, when we compare the taxation of Slovenian companies with the consequences, let us see what the comparison is in the salaries themselves. If the employer pays EUR 3 000 600 for his employee, the worker receives a net salary of EUR 880 in Slovenia, in Austria a thousand 893 euros, in the Czech Republic a thousand 932 euros. And now you're going to say that we have to compete with Germany, with Austria, okay, but then we have to compete with Germany and with Austria in the amount of wages, in the amount of our pensions, in the orderliness and accessibility of health and the health system, in the educational system and in education and also in economic freedom. Then let's go compete in everything. But our reality is in this case what I said – Czech Republic. It is difficult for us to compete with Austria because they create more, simply as a percentage, more. And this competition is essentially impossible. Also with respect to other comparisons. When you said we couldn't compare ourselves to the OECD as a whole. Of course, we are competing in the global world, not just in the European Union. We need to compare ourselves, even with New Zealand, even with Australia — why not? And these data listed in the OECD are the real data, and here we are very far behind. If we want Slovenia to be a country of opportunity, then, Madam Secretary of State, now is the right time, a time of conjuncture, a time when the economy is doing well, a time when the prospects for at least the next year are good. It is the last chance for taxes to be reduced in these favourable circumstances – in contrast to what Mr Mesec says – to lower taxes - to reduce the cost of trucks starting in Hungary, to refuel in Slovenia, not to transport Slovenia and to move on to Italy. And in this way, it is easier to fill up the cash registers and, in particular, that the economy with even more full lungs breathes and gets better conditions for good operation. If the economy works well for entrepreneurs, then it will be good for everyone in this country, because if the economy works well, people will have better wages, they will be able to spend more, and they will live better.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I call on all fellow Members and Members to be more respectful in their statements to each other Yes? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I think some words. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please proceed on a procedural basis, Mr. Wrotec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u99	Procedural. If you state what I was not respectful of in my debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u100	The way you spoke to Mrs Hefferle, I don't think it's very appropriate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u101	I apologize to Mrs Hefferle for mentioning that it is not nice – in my opinion, this is my opinion – to chew in the National Assembly. I also said that to a former interior minister at one of the meetings in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u102	As I have foretold, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly and inviting the leaders of the parliamentary groups to meet me in room 217 in 10 minutes. I interrupt the 2nd item of the agenda and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 4.05 p.m. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 3.25 p.m. and resumed at 16.10.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u103	We continue with the adjourned session and the second point. Before continuing, I would like to warn you or inform you of the error that occurred yesterday in the submission of the panellist's application for today's session. Some of the parliamentary groups have submitted a report to the Members who were confirmed only today, and according to the strict letter of the Rules of Procedure, only Members who have an approved mandate shall be written to the debate or to the list of panellists. With today's meeting, Members who have been confirmed for a new mandate have been unjustifiably listed on this list. We will now correct this error in the way that Members will be given the opportunity to discuss at a time when the time remaining from the debate will be shared subsequently. Mr Möderndorfer has the procedure first.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u104	Good day to you all! Although I am sorry that this is the way we must greet each other when I come to Parliament. I regret this event, especially because the Slovenian public wants to be covered up with a mistake and even this mistake comes to the parliamentary groups. In order for the Slovenian public to understand what you have just said and what you are talking about for half an hour, it is very clear that, according to the Rules of Procedure, since otherwise you can quote the article in the Rules of Procedure and the procedure, exactly how it is defined and when it can be discussed and when not, because otherwise I will understand that you have taken the vote of the new Members with a confirmed mandate in this National Assembly and that they no longer have the right to speak and even put them in a second-rate position. [[…]] You will talk when the remains remain — this is unacceptable, this must not happen in the National Assembly. What's going on, though, would be colleague Tanko, who I do not see here now, and I believe was the initiator of this whole story, that he warned both the professional work and the President of the National Assembly that this could, of course, be a mistake I must say that you have done a very bad thing. [[…]] Now, in a row. What is most important: Members' groups have given the names of Members according to a typical procedure, when of course they get a clear cut, when some member group has a timing to be able to list a Member. In addition, our expert wrote very clearly the name and surname of the Member, myself, and wrote that the mandate will already be confirmed at this point. This paper, by the way, is still published on the website today because it was confirmed together as an integral part of the agenda, and no one has objected to it. Even at the beginning of the meeting, the President of the National Assembly did not inform the leader of the parliamentary group that Members would not have a word and that the order was different. This has not been done by the Sectional Service of the National Assembly, even more so, it has come so far as not to propose a change of order between the session itself, which is parliamentary practice, no one would know, but it would only be complicated if we came to the floor. And therefore there would not be a pause, nor would there be any consecration with the leaders of the groups of the Members, nor would there be anything. President, you are the first of the same in this national assembly – a bad start, a very bad start, and I understand it only by someone trying to shut my mouth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u105	Before I move forward with a procedural proposal, I just want to explain. The professional services have informed all the services of the members of the groups about this non-loving error, so it is not about someone not wanting to give you a word, but only about the fact that only the Member can report to the debate. It is also necessary to know that some strange practice can be created on this account. No one can ensure in advance that the sent-out mandates are confirmed, nor could they be, so that the situation would then be the same as it is now. Now I am making a procedural proposal to Mr Zorčič first.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u106	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are witnessing today, I will say, a first-class scandal in the leadership of the National Assembly. The agenda of today’s debaters is set on the website of the National Assembly. After this meeting began and the mandates of all alternate Members were confirmed, it was only after some of the towers that we learned that Members, all alternate Members, were deleted from this order. What you want to tell us is that there has been some kind of error in the composition of the order, that you have found this only today on the initiative of one of the Members' groups and that you will remedy this error by taking the floor of the Members. Madam Vice-President, do I quite understand that the purpose of this Rules of Procedure is to respect the Rules of Procedure, or is it the purpose of respect for the Rules of Procedure to ensure equal rights for all Members? I understand you're doing the first thing. I suggest that you read the Rules of Procedure in a way that allows all of us the same rights to be able to discuss with all three or four Members on this list, but they may not have checked out. If you disagree, put this proposal to the vote. I do not think that any error in the rules of procedure or the application of the Rules of Procedure can be remedied in such a way that Members are subject to the word. And yet, fellows, this is our basic asset! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u107	Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out that the Members who were reported to the debate yesterday were not Members of Parliament yesterday. Today they have become and will be able to debate within a time that will be subsequently divided into the remainder. Mr Wingo Jelinčič has a procedural proposal now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Let me explain. In the National Assembly, we hear from SMCs that the rules of interpretation are not respected and that the rules of procedure can be violated, that they can be adapted in view of the situation that the rules do not apply, that everything depends in fact on the coalition position and ultimately that a certain amount of intelligent quota is not relevant to the National Assembly. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request a 45-minute recess to explain to my Members all this because they are new, they do not know the matter. I think it makes sense for them to be told that this is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your proposal. However, let me just inform you or teach you that this proposal is about a situation that is ahead of any proposal. The Rules of Procedure of the second paragraph of Article 73 state that the leaders of the parliamentary groups may request a suspension for consultation only if it is a matter of interruption before the decision is taken. We're not making any decisions right now. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] 73nd paragraph, Mr Jelinčič [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u110	Excuse me, may I read paragraph 73 for misrepresentation? But now I'm also going to say that you really don't know how to run the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u111	Mr. Jelinčič, I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u112	Yeah, I took it because it's necessary. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u113	Please follow the rules in force in the National Assembly. Mr. Only Bevk has the floor on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I think the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are quite clear. The first paragraph of Article 68 states, quote: “Introductions to the debate must be submitted in writing to the President of the National Assembly no later than the day before the beginning of the consideration of each item of the agenda by 12 noon.” It was exactly 12 hours ago who were Members and Members of this National Assembly. I think that, despite this note to the list submitted by SMC's professional associate, it's irrelevant, because then we can say what would have happened if it had been. I think that you have acted, Madam Vice-President, entirely in accordance with the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u115	He has Mr. Zorčič on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u116	Madam Vice President. This argument that yesterday was the time when it was necessary to report and that the merodian did not, of course, drink water as to who could apply. Look, there was a lot of other stuff going on yesterday, and we didn't know whether or not the MPs were going to be confirmed today. For example, these inscriptions were given to Mr Möderndorfer yesterday and to Mrs Maša Kociper, which does not mean that these inscriptions depend on whether anything is confirmed or not. We have notified these Members because they knew that they would be confirmed because they were on the Mandate-Election Commission, the State Election Commission, and because we had to report them by twelve o'clock. We wouldn't be able to report them today, and it's a good thing we reported them. Are you saying that they're in this session today without a connection? Is that what you're trying to say if you can take the debate if there's any time? Look, this isn't how it works. I propose that we cut this short by simply voting on whether the Members who have been declared are still registered, who are still on the list that is on the National Assembly's website, the right to speak, or whether it will be taken from them by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Möderndorfer has the following procedure, and then Mr Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u118	I see that you simply do not want to accept certain facts that are clear, and because I see that the Member is reading the Rules of Procedure and teaching who was a Member and who was not yesterday, and says that everything is damn clear, I ask you now, Vice-President, and answer me that I will know what State Assembly I am sitting in, and that I will also be able to act for the future. Explain to me how the expert services could have allowed the list of my name after I had not been a Member to appear on the list of discussers on the website, and when the meeting was started by the President of the National Assembly, why he did not warn that if the correction had not already been made on the website – and let yourself open, now that name is up – explain to me how the agenda could have been adopted, the list is an integral part of this agenda, because it is known how the meeting would be conducted, and then someone will decide that it was a mistake, saying that it would not be debated because it was not yet a Member. According to this logic, if we adopt this practice, as you wish to introduce it now, this is a parliamentary practice, whenever any president of the National Assembly will be able to withdraw someone already on the list of discussers from an interpretation and an explanation of some mistakes that have occurred. Sorry, that's not gonna work! I guarantee you, if I don't get a word today, because I won't go among the remains, because I won't let you put me in charge of being a second-rate Member. That's why I said on purpose, the President is only the first of the same, and this also applies to you, who are the first of the same. You simply have to decide whether you will weigh the rules of procedure and parliamentary practice that is unacceptable or whether you will decide today that you simply do not give a word in this House to Members, New Members, with a mandate approved today. I will remind you of this entire mandate, and you will end your mandate with this. Believe me, you don't know me yet. You'll get to know me.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Möderndorfer. It's nice to meet you this way, too. I have made my decision, and if you do not agree with it, you can contact the Rules of Procedure Commission. The next one with a procedural proposal is Mr Jelinčič and then Janja's servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u120	Madam Vice-President, let me read to you the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which you have turned to your head. Here's what it says. “The President shall terminate the work of the National Assembly if the Head of the Group so requests before the decision is taken for consultation in the group. An individual parliamentary group may require such interruption only once at a specific agenda item. Such interruption may take up to 45 minutes, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. ” [[…]] Nowhere is what you said it says. Since you do not want to give us a 45-minute break, we, our Slovenian National Party Group, predict obstruction and go home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič, as you have read for yourself – the chairman will suspend the work of the National Assembly if the leader of the parliamentary group so requires before the decision. The next one has a procedural proposal from Mrs Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much. This is an official document published on the website. Official document of the National Assembly, which contains the names and surnames of four, not just ours, four new Members. And now to claim that we made a mistake when we reported, four were reported from three different parliamentary groups. If they have made a mistake in their professional services, they are to blame for this, but there can be no consequence of the fact that Members do not get a word. Members have been officially reported here and this is a very dangerous precedent, because next time you will voluntarily cross someone off this list, but next time we will require the members of the group to be placed on the list later also by someone we did not report on the basis of such practice. If we follow past practice, it will be just anarchy, and you have no reason to publish it. It is funny to talk about the fact that these Members will now be able to participate in the debate on time-sharing. That's funny! At the first moment the Members were notified, they should be refused that the leaders of the parliamentary groups were not informed that we had accidentally found out, in the corridors, that they would simply be deleted from the list of discussers — that is unheard of!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u123	Mrs Slug, according to my information, the leaders or secretaries of the groups of Members have been informed. The following is Mrs Natasa Sukič's word for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I give up because that's exactly what you told Mr. Jelinčič, what I was going to say. It is clear that he himself has read that this break can be taken before making a decision, and we are not currently deciding on anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u125	Thank you. The next one with a procedural proposal is Mr Only Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Whoever's working is wrong. So, it's completely human and those who have submitted individual Members to the debate, and those who have then placed these Members on this list or list that we have here before us have made a mistake, which is completely human. This is also contrary to Rule 68(1) of the Rules of Procedure, which I have previously quoted, so that again, Madam Vice-President, I think you have done the right thing, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, it was at the consultation of representatives of the groups or leaders of the groups of the Members of the Members of the Parliament that a compromise on the common sense could be reached by all the Members who had been notified, even though they did not comply with Article 68(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u127	The following Mr Möderndorfer has a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u128	How can I trust the professional service that today, when it claims and you say on their behalf today, that the expert member of the parliamentary group should be informed, but if I – now I will not say, "if I were to be" – I say very clearly: "She has not been informed!" You believe in the professional service of the National Assembly, I believe in my professional colleagues – sorry, someone is pulling you in. It is difficult to admit a mistake, but to hide, so that Members will bear the consequences of the mistakes made by the professional staff of the National Assembly, and then refer certain Members to the Rules of Procedure and give you support that you are right – see, I will not speak with the remnants. But today it's a black mark on democracy. You're closing your mouth to an MP. Thank you very much. I won't talk to the rest of them, either.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u129	Mr. Möderndorfer, your procedural proposal was? [[…]] I didn't track him. Mr Zorčič has the following procedural proposal. Don't you? And Mr. Jursha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word! But now, in the last case, you are this mistake that you've been making all the time you've given procedural options to propose to your colleagues, but almost none of them have said what his proposal is in this process. There was a debate, literally a fight between different Members of Parliament. I therefore suggest that you ask each of them what his procedural proposal is, because no one has given it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Jursha, for that advice. There are still procedural proposals. Mr. Kramar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues! I think this problem can be solved elegantly. After all, the National Assembly is the highest decision-making body. He has adopted the Rules of Procedure and other matters, and I think Mr Zorčič's proposal has been very appropriate. Let the National Assembly decide whether these new Members may also be given the floor. I propose such a proposal, this is my proposal to put it to the vote and if this is voted on, of course they are given a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Please turn off the microphone. With regard to your proposal for a vote, with regard to this decision, let me say that the vote on this item does not explicitly provide for the rules of procedure, so that I have taken my own decision. If you do not agree with it, I propose once again that you turn to the Rules of Procedure Commission. If there are no other procedural proposals, we shall proceed with the debate. Mr. Zorčič, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u134	Madam Vice President! If you've decided to make a mistake, I don't know, by sending groups, your services, you're going to take the word away from the Members, which I don't think is right, I think it's a flood of democracy in this house, then we're predicting obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next is Master's degree Bojana Muršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that! I don't know if it would make any sense to discuss today's subject. We've talked a lot, or I don't know why we got the whole thing mixed up on this point. We certainly had problems. The professional services have made mistakes, and the parliamentary group has made a mistake, but I believe that compromise can also resolve matters, or business regulations are perfectly clear in this regard. Someone who is not a Member cannot be written on the list the previous day for discussion. But good. Today we are talking about a very interesting matter. Otherwise, it will be quite difficult for me to switch to this matter that we are discussing today. In the introduction, the proposer said that the coalition contract solutions could have a detrimental and destructive effect on Slovenian entrepreneurs. I would like to point out that she said “may”. Everyone should be aware, as do you and we, that the actual premature statements are harmful to both the economists and us. The undeniable fact is that we all want a successful, competitive and socially responsible economy that will ensure progress, development and prosperity for our people. Only with such an advanced, successful economy can we create a higher gross domestic product and better conditions, and it is up to us politicians to make good legal decisions. But the coalition contract isn't legal. The laws don't come to the table till later. It is right that economists have turned to or highlighted certain problems, but it is necessary to wait for a marriage proposal. I believe that, at the time of the legislative proposal – which, when it will be – we, the economists and all those who will participate will adopt a single dialogue, which will make good decisions for both the economy and for entrepreneurs. True, the coalition treaty has caused a lot of controversy. It saddens me that these controversy came from the Members, especially one of the Members, which is unheard of and completely inappropriate to me, because they also have the words behind them. That is why I believe that we must all be aware of our words, for, as I said, there are acts in the back. I believe that this has been a lesson for everyone else, that we will carefully communicate our words. It is true that the coalition agreement is ready; it was not prepared according to the economists, certainly not. The coalition contract is the web of all political parties — five or six. Otherwise, five political parties signed a coalition treaty, which is the basis for the drafting and implementation of legislative acts. However, when there are proposals for marriage, dialogue will be a key issue, and some further analysis is needed to know how to proceed. Incentives for businesses, both small and large, to ensure their expansion are certainly important and a good business environment is a step forward. With this good economic environment, we will also achieve new jobs, business expansion, which is certainly what we want in Slovenia. That is, more investment, more jobs, better prosperity for our citizens and citizens. But I would like to stress in particular that yes, jobs, but quality jobs for a good pay. Many times it happens that employers actually do not appreciate enough workers, workers only get minimum wages, but this minimum wage is not really enough to survive his family or himself. Entrepreneurs need to be aware – and some small entrepreneurs, as well as some large ones, are deeply aware of this – that there are no employees without their company. And they're properly rewarded. This is especially true for family companies, to note that they actually respect workers, reward them honestly for their honest work and I believe that economists will also find out because our workforce is going abroad. Why? The wages are higher there, but it's true that it's not easy to work abroad. But somehow people use it, because we have real wages that are essentially too low. Whether to relieve wages, relieve entrepreneurs – I'm afraid that actually higher wages would not achieve much. I must say that I have also talked to some about this value added tax drop, maybe by two percent, and I asked if I would lower your service price. Do you know what the answer was? Yeah, no. By lowering these tax burdens, I believe that many would not have decided to raise wages and reduce services. We must be aware that workers are invaluable, the largest wealth of the company, but it is indeed necessary to create such a business environment and such economists as will also pay a fair wage. I'm not just talking about salaries, I'm talking about employment stability. If workers have stable employment, then this means significantly less problems, as well as in the health field, because a satisfied worker who likes to come to work is less stressed, satisfied at the end of the month when he gets paid, and can also achieve this maximum effect on the job. So, as I said at the outset, the coalition treaty is a political act signed by five political parties, but there will still be a lot of analysis, discussions, cooperation with all stakeholders in order to reach the greatest compromise both between the government and the economy and also to reward their workers as needed. Dialogue and once again dialogue are key, which will then be carried out under this coalition agreement, and it can also happen that many of the issues enshrined in the coalition contract are premature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the next word, and Lidija Dijak Mirnik is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Vice President, and congratulations on the right decision earlier on that complication. So Mr Möderndorfer is obviously in pain that he was not elected to the National Assembly and is only an alternate Member. He started in his own style. But that reminds me of my previous term. This is like when we had a complication with the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, when Mr Zorčič spoke today about a setback in democracy, but he did not say that the previous mandate had taken the mandate of Janez Janša in unconstitutionally and voted against the fact that the referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Well, and when Janez Janša was given a mandate, we again proposed him as a member of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, even though he was not a Member. If we applied Zorčič's logic at the time, I could say you'd confirm it, because we knew that the Constitutional Court would give him his mandate back. In short, the decision was correct because he was not yet a Member when the list was being applied. Now, if we are going to the subject, it has been heard by a member who obstructs the meeting, Mrs Janja Slug, in what state we left the country in the Slovenian Democratic Party in 2008 after four years of government, what we left behind. Here are the main macroeconomic indicators for Slovenia and selected the best number in 2004 to 2008 and the best number in 2015 to 2018 to see how bad Slovenia was left in 2008 by the first government of Janez Janša, in what excellent state – apparently in her opinion, although the numbers speak differently – the Party of the Modern Centre or Miro Cerar. As far as economic growth is concerned, Janša's government's mandate was at a maximum of 6.9%, at the time of Cerarje's government 5%. As far as exports are concerned, real growth as a percentage: at the time of the Janšev government 14,1 in Cerarje time 10,6. As far as imports are concerned: at the time of Janša's first government 16,8, during the time of the Government of Mira Cerar 10,1. As far as the public deficit is concerned, we had our first budget flattened in 2007, it was flattened in 2017 and a surplus is forecast for this year, but it should be known that this would not be the case if the government did not restrict the fiscal rule. So she was forced to do it. As far as public debt is concerned, the government of Janez Janša left the country at 22.1% of GDP, the government of Mir Cerar at 69.3. The number of unemployed in the first Janšev government – 66 000 239 during the time of the government of Mira Cerar 88 000 648. As far as consumption growth is concerned, private consumption: 6.4% growth during the first Janša government, in the time of the government of Mira Cerar 4.2. As far as investment in fixed assets is concerned, 12% growth in the time of the Janša government and 10% growth in the time of the government of Mir Cerar. In short, I don't know what the Member had in mind that we left the country in bad shape in 2008, except that it obviously doesn't separate two different debts, as well as many others, as it was understood from the debate. For there is a difference between the debt which the State rents for the budget and the debt which is common, where both natural and legal persons are considered. This, however, increased enormously in 2004 to 2008. But the government here has nothing. If we, as natural persons, hire a loan if companies, at the time of economic growth as it was in 2004 to 2008, hire a loan, it is logical to increase this debt. But with this debt the state has nothing because the state does not go to the bank or to natural persons to ask for credit for an individual citizen or for an individual legal person. If this debt increases at the time of economic growth, this means that the economy works because companies hire loans to expand their production. If they are expanding their production, it means that they are hiring to invest in development, to invest in investment. If citizens hire loans, it means they don't hire a loan to put it under the authority, but because they're going to spend that money. Here comes the multipliers again. If this debt increases, it means that economic growth is, that the country functions, that the economic climate is favourable and that citizens hire loans to spend and businesses to develop and expand their activities. Stop fooling around here. In four years, however, the first government of Janez Janša owed Slovenia EUR 700 million. In four years! The government of Alenka Bratusek in one year for 8 billion! If you rent a loan for 8 billion in one year, look, you can simply put it on the poster: Experienced, determined, we saved Slovenia. Yeah, well, who wouldn't save Slovenia if you took 8 billion poufs, put it in banks, then quasi-managed banks, patched up the budget with it, and that's it! You don't have to be an economist to save, say, in this case, the state, but if you take eight billion euros of credit somewhere. In this way, anyone can save the country. Secondly, if you are willing to lower the budget spending side during the crisis. We did this at the time of the second Janša government, paying a high price for this in terms of political damage. The government, which then came, had significantly better starting points because for a poor billion practically cut budgets in one year. But then, of course, it would be significantly easier to hire a loan again, to save banks with that money, to level the budget. That's it. And we said we saved the country! Yeah, we took eight billion credits! Who's gonna pay for it? At what interest rate? Five percent and more. Then you say, "We called three." Do you know what it would mean if a threesome came to Slovenia? Slovenia should take credit elsewhere – with the European Bank. That's when we suggested you take him there. Do you know what the interest rate was? %1 %. No, but they took it five, six, seven instead of a 1%. Why? Because if we took it there, then it would not be enough just to take credit and continue to finance consumption, as it was before, but we should actually start with some serious structural reforms, which would in some time lead to a different situation as far as the budget is concerned. So much for these two different debts and your instigation, innuendo or ignorance that we have different types of debts. Second of all, we saved Slovenia. Everyone can save Slovenia that way. Everyone probably knows how to build a house, you go to the bank, give me 150,000 euros of credit, here, I set up the house, and the neighbor will pay off the loan. Here, I built a house. Well, that's not how it works. As far as the coalition agreement is concerned – and it is essential to say so – this meeting, convened by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party, is the result of responses – not politics, but economies – to the coalition contract. I remember at the time of the meetings – I think Mr Batagel said, the difference between me and Luke of the Moon is that he started in Parliament, I started in the garage. I can tell myself that I started in Parliament. If all the student's work were counted, I would have had years to work, but still, I started in Parliament, directly from college, just like my fellow moon. But there is one important difference between us; I, who started in the garage, appreciate, respect and by acting and by my vote and by my suggestions in the National Assembly, try to work in such a way as to allow them to create even more, to give their employees even better wages so that they can all live together better. We, too, who are paid by taxes charged in the budget, because taxes are the basis for the State to be able to finance itself at all. My friend's moon has the opposite logic. He doesn't respect these people, he'd nationalize their businesses, he'd pick up everything they create, and my colleague Kordish would drive them into the sea with bayonets, or into the abyss, or whatever he wrote on Facebook. And it is interesting that colleague Kordiša is not here today, but colleague Kordiš, you know, constantly muddy and insults Slovenian entrepreneurs. The MOS never comes to Celje, constantly muddy, talks to a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces that it is some gang that is going to raid Afghanistan, but one visit to the Defence Committee does not go to meet them. In short, it's nice to talk here, it's nice to write on Facebook, but it's not good to meet people like entrepreneurs, like Slovenian soldiers, who are so eager to be criticized, the whole system and more. This session today, as I said, is a reaction to the coalition treaty. If you're saying that a coalition treaty is something like that, then it's obvious that your clients' programs are also when you run for election, something. How will people even trust politicians when Mrs Slug spoke before, let us ask ourselves why politicians have such mistrust about us, why we are so unappreciated? It was precisely because of such statements and statements as Mr Erjavec said on the Defence Committee during the hearing that he said: "You know, what we said during the election campaign is something and now is another." What we wrote in our political programmes is something, and now it's another. What's in the coalition contract is something, and now it's another. It's not working! And that is precisely what if someone doesn't understand why Nova Slovenija – I don't want to be their lawyer, but still – has left the coalition negotiations. Because it was known, you were letting them go because you said let's write it down, so much so that we could get them, but we're not going to make it happen anyway. But for some serious government, for some serious coalition, it's a coalition treaty of the world. Then we get a brochure, we all get it, we get the mandate of the Government of Mir Cerar 20014/2018, we have made promises. What promises? I went to watch the SMC program and what was written in that – it was not realized! I went to watch the coalition contract 2014–2018 and what was written in this brochure – it is not realized! What promises? What's the promise for you? It's a program, it's a coalition contract. Is that something you remember in this room from the start? Who do you believe now? Or Luke Mescu, who was here defending the coalition treaty, or the minister? Or to a coalition MP who overpowers a vice-president from the same coalition, or to a vice-president? And this is a mess that's going to be due to a coalition of six left parties. I do not know if it is relevant, because Lidija Jerkič, Lidija Jerkič, President of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, said: “The Coalition Treaty is read as a programme of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia.” [[…]] This is the lady who said at the protest this year: "Yesterday we asked, today we demand, tomorrow we will take." If this is the programme of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, and the coalition contract is their programme, as she said, then, ladies and gentlemen, I am seriously concerned. All co-signatory, proposers of this meeting and those who have warned: 5 000 679 signatures of natural persons and 2 000 64 signatures of companies on petition, let this madness, which is proposed in its coalition contract, end the coalition that is proposed in its coalition contract. And I can't believe how then an LMŠ member can even come to Tarcho and say, "Yes, because a coalition treaty is something to wait for the government to be and then we can start working." We asked each minister at a hearing in the Slovenian Democratic Party whether he was involved and whether he was in favour of a coalition contract. As far as cooperation is concerned, the answers were mixed. But all the ministers said they were behind the coalition contract. This meeting today, ladies and gentlemen, is the result – but it is not the cause. Ask yourself what caused this. As is true of every matter when you point your finger at the opposition — why this meeting is necessary, why it is why the third one — every session is the result of something. And if you have written in the coalition contract things that have raised the economists on your feet – and not only the economists, including the media, your media, who have constantly supported you, who have forged you into the stars, which have helped not least that this government has ever come to – this is the media government, very much the effort has been made in this, even by Pro Plus or specifically POP TV. And now POP TV writes the Coalition Against the Economy or the Government Against the Economy – it wrote yesterday. At the time of the election campaign, however, they did their best to build Levica and later to establish this government. Now, of course, she's being attacked. Believe me — if the polls hold — that the government’s leading party is third in power after not another month in the government — this is a bad journey forward! There will be more meetings. The opposition in democracy is designed to control it, to propose its own things, and above all to tell what is right and what is wrong. If anything goes well, we'll tell you; we're in the previous government too. If anything goes wrong, we'll tell you and we'll tell you. This is our constitutional right, and more than the stupidity of this coalition of six left-wing parties, there will be more meetings on this subject. We listen to common sense and are not just economists here, but all those who know how money is made, how to get new jobs. But I understand that the voters of the Left don't understand that. Interestingly, this party has won — in what areas? In the richest neighborhoods of Ljubljana! This is one of the urban parties supported, obviously, and elected by the rich layers and those who hope for such and different benefits from it, but unfortunately in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not intend to support such and other proposals that will be detrimental to the economy, and thus to the detriment of the country and to the detriment of our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Natasa Sukić has a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would ask that he reminds everyone among us who is trying to discredit other Members and Members on the basis of some insinuation. For example, a colleague in front of me has just discredited Luca Mesca with some sort of insinuation, if he doesn't respect some entrepreneurs or anyone. I mean, that's unacceptable. This insinuation is totally unacceptable and I ask that this does not happen in the future in this way – for anyone between us, I speak not only for him, but for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u141	Thank you. I agree that the debates should be respectful of all Members and Members. Procedurally has Mr. Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u142	To know about the following discussions, Madam Vice-President, I am interested in what was respectful in my debate. Even if I said that Mr. Moon doesn't respect entrepreneurs to nationalize them and collect profits or how it is: After them you will know them! [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u143	But it was a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u144	/ advertising from the hall/
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u145	This is not a procedural proposal. The next word is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik and Boris Doblekar is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Good-bye. Of the ten we sit here, we listen to a debate, which is also partly on the bar level – who said something, who isn't, who tweeted, who isn't, left-right, right-left, SMC; in Maribor they would call it the whole barn. I don't really understand why you're going here. The wish of the coalition, myself personally, is only one, and this is to enable the further economic development of Slovenia, of course with special emphasis on all those sub-fed regions that are undoubtedly in Slovenia, even in my Maribor. The recommendations proposed by the proponents are, as far as I am concerned, a populism massage, a diversion of attention, and I am therefore pleased that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also been followed and that, in fact, the Committee on the Economy has decided as it has decided. You know what's been wrong with this house all this time, or at least what I've been seeing since I've been here? The spread of non-truths, the tendency, as Mr Horvat said, and all the words that you are actually using all the time. That's exactly what you've been doing with this session since ten. I understand very much, there has been a situation that you do not like, but it does not give you the right to deceive people, to create some hysteria in Slovenia, as if in this love of Slovenia everything is wrong. It's not. This Slovenia is very beautiful. We live on such a pearl that it would be nice for you to go there beyond the borders of Slovenia, to see where we live when you return, and to appreciate it. Everybody in a row. In all these years, when you are in this Parliament – from the beginning – you are actually helping to create this hysteria. I don't like this, so I suggest we start doing what we have to do to reverse this logic that you've been going through all the time, stop confusing each other with such and different things and do what we're here for. For this people will be grateful to us, and when we do so, politics in Slovenia will get a different call and we will not be all the locusts who steal and we are interested in our own ass because we are not; at least I am not. But I'm sure there's a lot of people between you and us, so, my dears, let's start doing something together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. What do you have procedurally? Ms. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to continue where my transition ended, which is who's scaring people. I think that you, with your coalition contract, are scaring people, scaring Slovenian companies, Slovenian economists, and that is why such a response has occurred in the public and, as a result, in the media, not on our part, on the part of the economists, which is the reason for your coalition contract. In Maribor, we would say the whole barn, and I believe the economists also said when they read your coalition contract, that this coalition contract is really the whole barn. I really want to know what the economists in Maribor say. To them, this coalition contract is great and fine. What is the economic situation in Maribor? What was she like years ago, and what was she like now? Maribor is a wider environment, the whole Podravje – how many other companies do we have? And why is that? What are we doing now with the measures you put into the coalition contract? You will drive those few other companies abroad, but I will say, Maribor is also in one such location, from which many people go across the border. Not only are citizens who go to work in neighbouring Austria, but companies also go to neighbouring Austria because their tax environment is more friendly and more predictable – what is so readily stressed here. Secondly, it may have been some seven hours of debate, but the government still has a full time, not a representative from the Ministry of Economy or a representative from the Ministry of Finance have not responded at this time. However, we would have expected, but now it has been a while, that some opinion will probably be given, if this coalition contract is so great and fine. We have heard earlier from the coalition party of the SD that very often before the elections, when governments are putting themselves up, there are various pressures from economists that this is always before the left governments, but I do not know if that is the case. I don't know, even one of your candidates who ran for state elections, which you may have seen in some way in some other place, and then within the coalition because of this problem, said publicly that he disagreed with such measures. Of course, Sam's an entrepreneur, an economist. In addition to the anticipated changes in the way capital gains are taxed, this was seen as a poverty in the company's development potential, so I don't know who you're talking about. Economists, you know, mostly not interested in politics, mostly not defined left or right, they expect policy to adopt some normal legislative framework, not to interfere with a free economic initiative, that they can create, that they have a normal business environment and that is our job. Under your coalition agreement, they only pointed out that it was not that these measures were harmful. And still, now one of your coalition partners has already left this session, SMC, but still you are enough, I appeal to you again, it is not too late to change the coalition contract, sit down with those key ones who know the economy, as many of you also know, because not least here I found one entry on the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. At the fair in Celje you met, the Chamber of Commerce met with all political parties, including members of the LMŠ, who said at the meeting that they understood the needs of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, because everyone who came to the MOS came from the economy. Yes, if you understand them, then please don't put in a coalition contract such measures that are harmful to entrepreneurs! I will again draw attention to the survey done by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise; a thousand 540 tradesmen and entrepreneurs participated, 99% replied that they supported the proposal to relieve wages for income, but assuming that the worker receives a higher net payment on equal gross wages, not with additional new taxes on employers. 85% of respondents do not support the new government's proposal for real estate taxation. Of course, that's what you intend to bring in. 56% of craftsmen and entrepreneurs are considering moving their business to countries with a more predictable and stable business environment! I think that's really all the alarms, and that needs an immediate response. If you now have a coalition contract containing such measures, you can fix it if you really want to do good to the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I give the next word to Mr. Chernach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. A nice greeting to all present from my side! Today's meeting, on the one hand, was an important concern of the economy regarding the announcement of a coalition treaty and some of the leading politicians in the country, and on the other hand an opportunity for five parties of the coalition to be clearly and unequivocally blocked from the holy war led by the political group Levica, led by the Vice-President of the month, in recent weeks to lead against the economy, against entrepreneurs, against craftsmen. Unfortunately, today this opportunity, with one rare attempt, has not been exploited. This opportunity for this distinction to take place and to calm the economy on the one hand and, on the other hand, to make it clear what this government intends to do and how it intends to do in the future. This attempt by Minister Restoration with some consultative body, with some world that will have no political power and will depend on what Levic is going to order, I don't think he's going to convince anyone. At least not those who have lost such confidence in the country, but in particular in this government, which has not even begun its work, but has already caused irreparable damage to the economy and the population. The economy is mass forecasting to leave the country, and more are those who will do so without any big predictions and will leave in silence. In yesterday's debate on the committee, and also today, it has been shown that you are using the way you have chosen it, especially by not taking these challenges seriously or at this announcement by the political group, Levica, in particular, that you are on the path of destroying entrepreneurship. So those who, with their own work, care to create not only themselves, but especially others. With this you have landed on the same boat on which the political group of the Left floats, and thus take responsibility for everything that will happen in the future on this path. Otherwise, there was some confusion in the debate about how the coalition treaty was not properly understood as to how some of the provisions written there did not seem to be written. See, the text is clear, but not just the text, and the debate, both yesterday and today, very clearly confirms that measures are being announced in this country, which are going in the opposite direction from what should be done. This country does not have low taxes; it has too high taxes. Too high. In all segments, for both the population and the economy. Those who do not understand that the burden needs to be reduced, that those who produce more will create more, live in a virtual world and there is no help for you. And by means of measures, if they follow what is enshrined in the coalition contract – they will undoubtedly destroy the health part that is currently operating normally because of the announcement made by the Prime Minister, the Moon. For both taxes and contribution rates will be increased for all, most of them who create the most, and new taxes and burdens will be introduced through new excise duties – all of which are written in this document – and you will tax property and property. So you're going to hit anyone who represents the spine of this country. It is interesting, however, that this world war is waged against the most productive, not the transition tycoons who owned and robbed Slovenian companies, filled their pockets, sold their shells, and threw workers on the road. Against it, do not wage this holy war! Interesting. The Left does not support the sale of the New LB, the largest Taiwanese money supply plant, the largest money launderers in the Balkans; the banks that have been rehabilitated and managed through higher taxes, smaller, too low wages and small pensions of taxpayers, the poorest, to whom prosperity should apply for all. Who is supported by this political group Left? He's backing up the tycoons! By supporting the failure of NLB to sell, it supports the continuation of the robbery and the sharing of what they have not created through the backs of others. In Slovenia we have one of the highest VAT rates, both the highest 22 and the reduced 9 and a half. Countries that care for their people either introduce either zero or lower rates for the most basic necessities of life, say a 5% VAT rate. That's not what this is about. And we're obviously not going to see that under this government. So, who cares about this coalition? For those of you who need the most help, I'm sure they don't. We're coming into the winter season. During this period, it is difficult for people to expect this winter, especially those with low incomes, because they do not know whether they will be able to pay heating costs or not. Do we have a mechanism in this country, a segment to help these people? In Austria, it costs a thousand litres of fuel oil about 850 euros. In Germany, something like that. With us a thousand euros, and the purchase price of this fuel oil in all these countries is roughly the same, some 600 euros, only that this country of Slovenia, which you say has too low taxes and that you will increase them, including excise duties, takes significantly more than Austria and Germany. Instead of going on the road to relieve people of these costs, so that the costs of staying, heating, functioning are lower, your measures are going in the direction of increasing these costs under the support and direction of the super-coordinator or Prime Minister of Mesca. They're going this way. There's something similar about electricity. When you get it every month, there's a third of the energy costs, everything else is one or another contribution. No measure is envisaged in this respect. However, the introduction of new excise duties, as I mentioned earlier, is foreseen. Those who help themselves if they have a home of their own will now pay even more tax than the show, more black shows, more difficult rents, and even worse supplies. It is said that the standard will also deteriorate in this area. The damage done in recent weeks by some aggressive leftist rhetoric not only to the economy, the most productive entrepreneurs, but also to the population of the Left and the other five parties, who are on the same boat as you proved yesterday, cannot be remedied today. Even today, you haven't taken advantage of this opportunity to fix it. The economy has invited you to do so and we have followed this call in the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and Slovenian national parties. “The economy has said what the moon said when it attacked not only Igor Akrapovic, but the most successful Slovenian economists who created thousands of jobs, with rhetoric that puts entrepreneurs in the context of tycoons, creating a hostile atmosphere against the economy.” This is what the Director-General of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia said and expressed the expectation that until this negative rhetoric and all that followed, these holy wars against entrepreneurs, the National Assembly, and above all the coalition, will be defined. And yesterday and today was an opportunity to talk about you, respectable. It didn't happen. It was expected that the National Assembly would be defined until Luke Mesca's statement, both in its jurisdiction of the legislative branch of power and through its prism of violation of ethical principles. You did not do this because you reject the proposed conclusions. Another time. The question was raised directly to the coalition, to all five parties, that from the economy of the hostile idea presented by Luka Mesec, it is far away and that by its actions it confirms that it supports faster economic development in Slovenia for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. We have not heard that, except for some fine saying that serves nothing today. So, unfortunately, you're on the wrong side of the boat that's being taken by the Prime Minister of the Moon, and I'm afraid this boat is going to bump into the liver in a very short time. The problem is that not only will this political group that is hurting this country sink, but those who are the least guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Yuri Leprechaun, and Mr Lisec is to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! That's how I'd start. Certainly, my purpose is to try to present my ideas, my experiences in these years, both left and right. Anyone who talks, anyone who's young or old, I listen to him, I respect his opinion. Education, experience gives you something like that. In short, we can learn a lot from this. We do know, however, that any decision we make in the National Assembly or any other reference is a product of a group of people who think differently. Because we think differently — that's not so bad at all. The word stigmatization of entrepreneurs was used. I'm 35 years old and I don't feel like being stigmatized. So, stigmatization or some idea that someone has depends on me personally. If, for example, I was not offended in my history, because I was a craftsman and because I was producing funds, and what I had employed, no one insulted me — I don’t know if I would have been stigmatized. Even in the previous system, but I wasn't in any game, I'll tell you honestly, I didn't have any problems. I've made up my own mind what I'm going to do with my life. So I had my freedom. This is certainly what I expect, and I also know that small businesses, espouses, self-employed people are burdened enough. Here I agree with everyone who talks like that. In fact, all the Members we are here are all saying one thing that we are for the people. Of course we are; and us and you and them, we are all for men. So this argument does not stand – neither to us, nor to me personally, that I am here to help people. That's why we're all here, each and every one of us. Clearly, the big companies that have taken these credits sometimes – I agree, we don't know how to prosecute the tycoons. It's not my fault as a new Member now, but since I'm in my prime, I'm sure I won't fight those. My contribution will be to these debates that I will be here if I have them when I have them. I will try to make suggestions based on the experience of young people, educated people and my experiences through life, what is good for the future. It is said that on the young world stands, that is what we all say; but I know only that, education is a beginning, so there is no one without each other. So if we start in education – I, for example, gave through 150 apprentices, such and different, from professional to university. We had Muto. When you raise him, he says, from primary school forward or since kindergarten, the system or the state invests in education, and then when it invests in education, it can become a craftsman, just like I was, and someone else, and entrepreneurs. But the great tycoons were created — we all know why — because of the transition to a new system because they took advantage of a hole in the marriage. I'm not smart enough to know why, but I'm still saying we can't catch them, and if we catch them, all the court cases fall. Look, I wouldn't go into this, but we don't know how to solve this. If we could solve this, there would be a number of citizens or people who respect us, Members, if you say we don't. And that's why I'm here, that maybe in the future I'll be together with you or with us, that we'll be respected people in our country, even like companies like entrepreneurs. Most entrepreneurs, believe me, are respected, and those who are good entrepreneurs also employ and pay their people. Just to illustrate, let's say that if you want one to be employed, it has to create 14 wages and actually work ten months. These are such realities, and you need to know that before you know it, if you want anyone to go ahead, he hasn't invested anything in the company. [[…]] In these larger systems – Mr Akrapovich, hat down, respectable, you have nothing; but I am also a social person. I am not saying that Mr Akrapovich pays too little or that he pays too much because I do not know that. All I know from my experience is that given who has more income, it's only right that he pays more for some common good. If I was in Ljubljana when I was educated, I was in the system 40 years ago, and I was at the expense of the state, because I did not have any air education. So, from this point of view, we need to see that what we have achieved has been made possible. In this case, our country has made it possible in one way or another. But it is true that when we look at how someone is educated — some have been educated at work. An even bigger hat down, so it's not that easy to unify. As for the fact that some of them spoke ill of craftsmanship, they spoke ill of these companies. I agree, but on this side of what happened, the client apologized, and that's enough for me. So she's distanced herself from some statements, and that's enough for me as a normal person. I wouldn't go any further; mostly, that's it. However, we all fight, we have said, we fight for the economy, we fight for the employers, we fight for the workers; we all fight for this man. As an employer, it is also good for me to have the country finish me off. I was just looking at the data, because I love statistics, I had them on exams, but I wouldn't take it too much into account – I think because I can't take it into account, but I only know this: 1.5% of the taxes in our country are only on the basis of property taxes. I am not so skilled, but I certainly think that this is one way out of our Slovenians to go in this direction to try to burden individuals with their abilities, but the property tax — I am for him. You know I was also mayor for 12 years. As far as this is concerned, the tax has compensated for the use of the building land, and this should now be instead. We are all studying the replacement for the use of building land through some regelemas, because I say you are paying between €90 and €100, we who had the company paid 500. Thus, from this point of view, I also argued that it was wrong for espouses to pay more for land than others, so the property tax could also save these anomalies. So then everyone would pay according to their abilities. Like I said, if we put the property tax in place, we're sure to get a better picture, we've already tried it three times, four times, and then it's all gone. I don't know, but we have to admit that this would be taxed according to some abilities. It means how many people have, how to achieve it, but it's another song. In short, we also have the opportunity as citizens, as people, to complain about this story and it is necessary to make this happen once. This must be done, and if we succeed, we will achieve something. From this point of view, I would not intervene, although I am on the side of coalition matters, and it is logical that we do not agree with everyone, individuals, we do not agree. Well, that makes sense, but that's the point. The coalition is an agreement, it is an agreement, it is a compromise that comes before you, and for this compromise we will try to implement it. But believe that we will follow this, because I know that with a shaking hand I will sign one thing – a change in legislation towards an increase in taxes on work. That, right now, I don't think it's a problem. So, from my point of view, I would like to say this to suggest that we go back to making decisions on property taxes, and also what was said to be 42% for those high taxes – the average Slovenian is taxed. So this middle frame limit, we're slowly losing it, and the middle frame is driving our people and some development. If this medium frame is destroyed to the point that we can't see the exit again, then we're gonna go slowly back. From this point of view, I will try in these interviews in this direction to restore the medium frame. That is to say, to reduce taxes, to reduce the percentage of tax for an average citizen, but for those who are above average, I agree, just not to start at 70,000 euros. So, like some countries, they have that tax on profits, but they go to 150 thousand, 250 thousand euros, not 70. That's what I think is an emergency exit, so we can solve it slowly. As far as I am concerned, I will continue to try to play with ideas, with arguments, with what I will learn from younger debaters. It's not right either, it's not nice to talk to someone or a young man. It's not! We are all human beings, and we are all Members; I am 60 years old, he is 20, 30. Why, because it's okay, it's no problem. Everyone who has children knows that young people sometimes think differently or think right, and if you elude those ideas that young people have with the experience of older ones, believe that we will swim. So I don't think we need to make too many illusions, today's debate is fine – nothing wrong, I respect. With this only, as I said, we would not always want to confuse each other with some insults, but let us try to say what we think, and I think we can live well in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the following word, and Mrs Natasa Sukič is to be prepared.-
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u154	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellows, fellows, good bye to you all! Unlike the predecessor, I do not come from the economy alone, I come from the Faculty of Social Sciences and, in recent weeks, when I have made myself clear and loud on social networks as tradesmen and economists, those who today spit at craftsmen and economists who say that the economists are just some tycoons who can't wait for their workers to pick and profit themselves out abroad. So I should probably be sitting there somewhere on the far left edge, at the extreme left side, but given that I know to a degree — not only in Sevnica or Posav – the economic situation, not least I can also boast of two successful brothers, one of them in the global multinational, and one of them — also because of poor tax legislation — has landed a little more south, works in one of the most developed world countries, and every day we get information from them about what is wrong in this country. What are the key moments, what is wrong with everything in this country? When I talk to economists and craftsmen over coffee or in their production halls, we always come across two words: bureaucracy and taxes. I will not talk much about bureaucracy today, but we have convened an extraordinary meeting in the previous term, where we have tried to stifle the madness of the previous government in this area, and there has been no success. As today, those recommendations have been rejected and over 500 new regulations, new regulations and new regulations have been issued for the next months. So much for that. There are words and there are actions. Given that you rejected today – or at a meeting of the committee yesterday – the recommendations that favour the Slovenian craftsman and Slovenian economist, I am very afraid of what you will do in practice. I am alone in what I am going to discuss, look at the Recommendations, the Programme for the Development of a Small Economy and the words of the Fiscal Council, which have said what the financiers think about this government. I quote: "The basic framework of the coalition contract indicates a significant increase in expenditure in the country's sector, where the objectives are also presented in more detail, and an increase in the tax burden on households and economies, where the measures envisaged are much less precisely defined." And when I listen to this pink punk today, what a coalition contract is, I have a feeling that a coalition contract is just some fig leaf that holds these six parties together, whether you use it or not. For it will obviously be more crucial in this government than in the previous government to manage the staffing, the staffing, and the staffing — let it cost as much as it wants, for men, such as craftsmen and businessmen, will have to eat it and pay it. Today, when I listen to how great it is for Slovenian craftsmen and economists, I hope that you have read a letter from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. “For the expected additional burden of the economy, 56% of craftsmen and entrepreneurs are considering moving their business to countries with a more predictable and stable business environment.” Don't say I'm bluffing. For example, I know the situation in Lek and Gen-I, which are thinking the hell out of it whether they still need to have a seat in Ljubljana or in Krske, or move the activity somewhere else. Above all, Slovakia is referred to as a stable business environment. If only these two companies go or move their seat abroad, I do not think that half of the Members – with all due respect – are aware of what numbers we are talking about. Both value added taxes, incomes, capital revenues and everything else. What will then be left and what you will then promise your citizens what you also wrote in the coalition contract – free public health, free public education, higher pensions, more social pensions, higher pensions and so on. Where will you take it? Or who are you taking? Because sometimes I have a feeling that some people think that Euros or dollars or some other currency is growing something in Dolenjska, something in Styria, in short on some trees or vineyards, and to pick it up as grapes, we put it in some scrotum called a budget, and then we share that money. But, Your Honor, things are not as simple as the representatives of the Left at least picture them, and unfortunately, some members of the Coalition are also nodding to do so, if you do, we will get somewhere already, or we will be re-indebted by the classic leftist method. That this coalition will not be any better than the previous coalition, however, shows the non-acceptance of the recommendations at the Committee on the Economy's meeting. That you do not have the courage to accept, say, a recommendation that the National Assembly recommends that a call be made to the representative of economic organisations to form a social dialogue and that they agree together on a new content of the coalition treaty. You don't have the guts. You do not have the courage to write that you will refrain from the untruths, deceptions, threats and insults that have been addressed in Slovenian policies and that you will stop threatening, attacking the economic development of Slovenia. Coalition Members, together with Levi, all six of them, have no courage to say: these are such simple recommendations that they need to listen in the spirit of debate and in the spirit of listening to our craftsmen and economists. For once again, there is a craftsman and an economic thief, a tycoon and they need to be sanctioned, but to listen on the basis of some bad economists – there will also be the mantra of this government – how economic tycoons who steal money from the pockets of taxpayers and safely park their money elsewhere, that is not the case. In short, I think we have a good topic for introducing this mandate; that is, whether we want the development of Slovenia or not. If we do not have Slovenian craftsmen and the Slovenian economy, you can insert the hook that you wrote down in the economic development of Slovenia into your ear and it will remain only in words. Unfortunately, it will only remain in words, as will only be left in the Flosculs below the mandate or unfortunately even worse, that is, in the reading circles of Members, who will defend what the lower officials of the ministries will write to them and will write them to the detriment of the Slovenian craftsman and to the detriment of the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Nataša Sukič, and the mag is prepared. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! After all these hours and after all I've heard here, I may initially ask myself in a little ironically whether we still need politics and politics at all, or if we just leave the economics to the leadership of this country, because calls by the SDS to change with the economists, the coalition contract is being rewritten, it sounds something like that. But even though we are witnessing a great demagog spectacle, intentional hysterization and stretching, pushing tension for daily political use between economists on one side and coalition, and especially Levi on the other side of the SDS and this time unfortunately also NSI, I am glad that we have finally the opportunity to publicly challenge many half-truths and also the non-truths that have been rounded up both by the media and within the economic circles, of course encouraged and orchestrated by the SDS, which is today so just a proponent of some righteous conclusions. In short, with concrete facts and very exact information, I would like to highlight what is true and what is created and overheated in this artificial atmosphere of this half-truth and even the lies that the right side of the opposition affords. Let's see, first of all, on the calculation of effective taxation of profits under the current regime, which is supposed to be 39, 25%. The calculation of the applicant assumes that, first of all, the entrepreneur always pays 19 % of the corporate income tax, but it must be made clear that the effective rate of DDPO is much lower than the official nominal rate of 19 %. Thus, in 2016, when the nominal rate was still 17 %, the rate of effective taxation was only 11.1%. In the EU, only Ireland and no one else had a lower level. In 2017, it was 13%. The difference between nominal and effective rates is due to the use of various tax incentives and therefore in Slovenia around 25% of total profits remain untaxed. That's the real picture. Such arrangements allow the most powerful capital owners to be taxed at extremely low tax rates. The rates at which the profits are taxed will now be said, under the headings “indignant entrepreneurs” in 2017: Boscarol paid 14% of the profits in taxes to the country, Akrapovič 8.7% and Pecčečnik only 6,5%. However, we need to know that in the European Union, businesses pay 23% on average. Now tell me, please, whether our bitter entrepreneurs have returned to the country too little or not if we are looking at some social responsibility or, say, social justice. Remember, though, that Ivo Boscarol is one of those privileged people who received a strong financial injection by the state, it is called a subsidy that he could have started his company at a level of several million euros. A few million euros got our taxpayer money, which is right because he did a really good business. But he's giving it back a little bit. Furthermore, in calculating the effective taxation of profits, the applicant assumes that the undertaking pays its entire profit as a personal income. The applicant, i.e. the SDS party, assumes that neither the entrepreneur nor the cent of the profits are reinvested in his company, but that the entire profit is paid for financing personal luxury consumption. Only in this extreme case, which would, of course, represent a completely reckless and uneconomic conduct of an entrepreneur, would an entrepreneur of EUR 100 of the profits earned actually pay EUR 29.25. Assuming that the entrepreneur – and I believe that this is the case – acts prudently and economically and overall profit instead of investing in its own luxury consumption in the development of its own company, he will pay a maximum of €19 tax, as far as the nominal rate of the DDPO or, in fact, for all additional benefits on average, only €13, if we take into account the effective level of the DDPO. These are real, exact numbers to avoid these various manipulations and speculations that have been circulating here today for hours and hours and that have been circulating in the media for several weeks and fuelling a terrible atmosphere and then, of course, it is the coalition and especially the Left for everything that is going on. In fact, you are guilty of what is happening because you are actually pouring oil on fire in an unfair way. For this reason, the second calculation of the effective rate of profit tax, which according to the applicant is 59,5 %, should take into account that the effective rate of DDPO is around 13 %. In order to be taxed at a rate of 50% only the profits of the narrowest class of owners, while taxes for the majority of smaller owners under the new regime would be either smaller or virtually the same as under the current regime. Currently, around 70% of the taxpayers are classified in the lowest income class, meaning 16% of the tax. 25% is classified in the second income class, i.e. 27% tax. So figure out how many are left of the richest 5%. And let's move on with this information. Well, of course, in all this discussion, the proposaler particularly demonises Levico, who is supposed to be the leading and most influential party to the coalition, in fact, the super-coordinator, and Luka Mesec, because the government of Marjan Sarca is supposed to stand or fall in the votes of our Members. The logic of exposure to the Left as a leading coalition party is, I think, really absurd, not only because the Left is an opposition party, but also because the Members of any party, by withdrawing their votes, can cause the government to fall. Therefore, by this logic, all coalition parties are also the leading and most influential parties to the coalition. As we can see, this diction that's been on your program all along is really pointless, well. All right, let's move on. I made it clear on the Committee on the Economy yesterday: one is the statements by the Member, his posts on Facebook, I am thinking of Miho Kordiš, and the other is the official election programme of the Left and what is officially enshrined in the coalition contract. And there is not even a letter “n” in our election programme or in the coalition contract since nationalisation. Kordish himself explained his publications, I will not comment on them, it was he who did it, I did not write it down, so please do not generalise and do not generalise and do not hang the statements of one Member on the whole of the Left. Then let's move on. The proposer also identifies entrepreneurs directly with the economy and foresees that their actions will automatically contribute to the well-being of all citizens and citizens and to progress. I quote your statement: "This is a direct threat to Slovenian entrepreneurs or the economy and thus to the welfare of Slovenian citizens and the progress of Slovenian society." End of quote. I would like to point out that the economy consists predominantly of workers and workers, but only a minority is represented by entrepreneurs. Moreover, for entrepreneurs who are partially hit by proportional capital taxation in their pockets, it is a small part of the richest entrepreneurs, i.e. the minority of the most privileged parts of the economy. In claiming that the proportional taxation of capital revenues will destroy entrepreneurs and push the path of socialism, which brings only misery and woes, you seem to forget that we have already had proportional taxation of capital revenues in Slovenia by 2006. Under this arrangement, companies such as Akropovic and Akropovic developed and implemented in Slovenia. It is funny, therefore, that the owners of these companies now say that such a tax regime will destroy and execute these very same entrepreneurs. Let's see, Slovenia is the last in the European Union after the share of capital taxes, in most OECD countries, for example, in Italy, Denmark, France, USA, Sweden, Germany, in Finland, capital taxes are higher than in Slovenia. That is why we have proposed progressive taxation of capital revenues in Levica. The new regime would relieve the less profitable, while the increase focuses on the top ten citizens with the highest income, they should pay up to 50% of the capital tax instead of the current linear 25%. I said up to 50, depending on what they're gonna do with that capital. Our measure is fair, since the richest layer owns almost half of all assets, I stress: almost half of all assets have the richest layer. To illustrate, let me tell you in figures: 1022 of the richest Slovenians had so much income from capital and property last year, amounting to 191 million euros, as much as 1.6 million taxpayers with incomes of up to three average monthly wages on the other hand, totalling 188 million euros. Are we seeing a relationship now? 1022 : 1.6 million. Our measure is also reasonable because the share of GDP collected by taxation of capital in Slovenia is almost half as low as on average in the European Union. In the European Union, capital contributes on average 20% to the budget, in Slovenia only 11%. After all, the owners of companies can not pay their profits, but invest them in the production and wages of employees, in which case the proposed measures of the Left will not affect them, contrary to the claims you are spreading, deliberately expand them, by the right-wing party and your allies through various chambers of commerce. If the richest were to pay a little more tax, we'd still be rich, I don't think they'd be harmed. They may have slightly smaller yachts and villas or some luxury car less; but there will therefore be more money for health care and schools, for the awakening of a dead residential policy or for new subsidies to the economy, such as it was shared when it launched its own really great company. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, you say that the best social policy is to create new cities. We agree, of course it is. What kind of jobs? Where the minimum wage should be only a small amount that allows you to live on the threshold of poverty? But what about those who will make it possible for workers and employees to enjoy a dignified, dignified life and life? Is that fair? Is it socially responsible? Is social justice? All that is so demagotic is being debated here that only the richest infinitely prolong tax breaks, while all the other citizens and citizens carry these burdens, we repair bank holes and I don't know what we're doing in this country, while some are obviously untouchable. Is that what you stand for on your right? I heard the client of Nova Slovenija; is this a social market model of the economy? Is that it? If it is, I don't know. Then it is best that I stop this discussion now, because I really don't have another word for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Next one's a mag. Andrey Shircelj. But get Robert Pavšič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! True, we hear a lot about various things today, but we also mix up the causes and consequences. Today's debate on the Slovenian economy, taxation and so on is primarily a coalition treaty and its text. And this text was created in some way, if you want, by a resistance to such an arrangement that was conceived by six coalition parties or five plus one coalition party or one plus five. And that's the only reason. If there were no coalition agreement in such a text, there would be no meeting today. Then the entrepreneurs wouldn't come forward, then the chamber wouldn't come forward, then the union would probably not come forward saying it was her program; and then the public, the general public and so on would probably not come forward. All those people you're talking about, some of your colleagues were talking about how it's here right now, how it's all so far, I don't know what it's all about. You signed your own coalition contract. It was signed by your president or president. They gave their hands, they made a TV show, they did a media show, and they actually did it. And then they started reading, or they haven't read it yet, this coalition contract, they also found out what it actually says. And it says that business conditions will deteriorate significantly for businesses. And today we can compare business conditions with international OECD statistics, with the share of taxes on gross social product, with the share of individual taxes, with public consumption in the share of gross social product. Yes, you can. We'll always find an international institution. We will always find another institution, scientifically, one scale, whatever comes our way; and we will use it to do so. And by the way, those you may have not been in the government for the first time; the IMF, the OECD, also the European Commission, when it makes country-specific assessments, comes into a country and does interviews. Among other things, interviews with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and, best of all, with the Minister or Minister. And they say what they would like; and then most of them write it in, and they substantiate it. These are wishes of the current or previous government, if you wish. And what it says in these international institutions. All matters need to be taken with a certain reserve, the whole matter needs to be considered in fact and rational in the whole matter. Of course, we can look at the effective rate of corporate income tax and say, it is effective at 11%. What's the total burden on the employer, what's the actual pay? How much does he pay for each contributor's contributions? He pays so much, and he has to put up bills for this money, ladies and gentlemen. Home or in the world. And if he pays more in Slovenia, he will think about going to another country. Today we are in the European Union, we have free movement of goods, capital. It will collect a better business or tax environment. There are no tax havens in the European Union. Luxembourg is officially not a tax oasis, Cyprus is officially not a tax oasis, whatever you're talking about. That's a fact. Everyone may think what a tax oasis is, but it's not. But we do have tax competition. And here these international statistics, ladies and gentlemen, about an effective rate and so on do not help much, because even entrepreneurs are not interested in this international statistics much and on average not; but he is interested in how much he will actually pay. And in Slovakia, in the Czech Republic, he will pay less in other countries, within the framework of the European Union. It's called tax and business competition, and that's what this is all about. We can talk about averages, they don't care. Why do we care if they're not interested? They will move production and they will hire other workers and not Slovenians. They will, if they move production and go to another country, in fact, in some way also forgive all those people for whom they are paying today income payments, health contributions and pensions. Everything they pay, they pay. An individual pays what he gets as an annual tax, as an annual income; either he gets back or he has to pay something. In most cases there are very few because the levels are so adjusted. When we talk about it, on average, they don't mean much to us, even effective, and neither do these entrepreneurs. What does this coalition contract say now when we talk about taxes? Yeah, we're gonna put a real estate tax on it. Great. As they say, let each man pay according to his own ability, that's what a fellow of Desus said. Fine. You know what abilities are in Slovenia and what income people get and what real estate they have. You know, there's the biggest disciplinarian here, or the biggest difference between income and movement someone has. Because of historical developments. This is what Natasha Sukič talked about, 70% coming to the lowest grade, and people have big houses. And now you'll be taxed. Is that what you think you're capable of? The OECD also discussed the differences between human income and property value. And now you're taxing it. And you know what you're gonna do about it? You will do this so that people will not be able to pay with their income, because they are as low as a real colleague of Sukič, they will not be able to pay this tax, so they will start selling their properties. Many properties will be on the market, the price will fall and the richest will buy them. And then another covert nationalization will be done. Today we have in this country, in the residential area we are the only ones with 90% of the people who own real estate. The only one in Europe. Then we'll have landlords, like in Great Britain, 20% of the people will own all the properties. This was a reform that had already been undertaken by one government before, and the whole reform in the Constitutional Court has fallen. Madam Secretary of State knows that and you want to do it. And then you want to tax another asset. What — gold instruments, pictures, watches? What else are you taxing?Oh, my God! That's what the coalition contract says, the assets, that's what the coalition contract says. And if you now want another matter when you want; how much is work and capital taxed? Let us see how much work and capital is taxed and what is the ratio between labour and capital taxation. It is estimated that work and capital should be taxed in the same way. Today, then, let us look at the effective rate of income, what is it, if you add up the effective rates; and then you will see that capital is taxed at nominal rates of 19% plus 25% still on dividend payments, that is 44%; and that we have such a scale for income to arrive at an approximate rate of 40%. I'm talking about the average, and it's the same here. And that's what the OECD says. This is said by the fiscal doctrine that the difference between labour and capital taxation should not even be made; therefore, today this system is as it is. If you tax the capital by 50% because you're going to put it into progressive income, the capital will be so much and so much more taxed by about 25 percentage points. And what's gonna happen? Ladies and gentlemen, this capital will go, this capital will go, this capital will go. And that's what the entrepreneurs told you. And given the notion that this coalition treaty is just a framework, that it is just a approximation, that it will be considered and so on, I have one proposal. The proposal for a coalition agreement that we'll all stop dealing with it because you're saying it's lame, you're saying it's just a framework. Do you know what you're doing? Cancel it, cancel it, it's unnecessary; it may be necessary to have a minimum bond to keep you here together, because here you can see that nothing else is holding you together. You may be held together by the side of the Left, which – in fact also has been proven – all these tax provisions she brought in; but you did not read them, or you did not read them poorly, or you were not paying attention; but they brought them in. I'm simply quoting media releases, public media releases and comparisons of the coalition contract before and after. They give you that in there, their program, but you didn't know you had it. And now you have to defend him. Cancel, this is the only solution that you will then start doing something new and do something for the benefit and well-being of the economy and the population of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. Mrs. Natasa Sukić has a replica. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Don't cheat on real estate. As far as I know, it's a luxury tax, super standard. Those who are speculators in the real estate market have 10, 20, 30 apartments that they broadcast. That's what this is about, not where we basically live and live. As far as I know, it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u161	You know, the replica is not allowed. Mr. Robert Pavšič has the floor. After you, Mr. Robert Pavšič, let Primož Siter be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that again. Once again a nice good evening, all of you! First of all, Mr Šircelj, I hope that we are all bound together by something other than one signature on paper, that we are bound by an interest in working for the good of the country. Here I hope that I do not, I do not hope, here I believe that we all agree together. All along, with you, yes, that's what I meant. However, I am a little concerned because we have been banalising this debate to the end, so this morning I also began to take a more philosophical view of the situation in a more philosophical way to respond to Mrs Pretty Šimenka. Philosophy is a humanistic science, unlike individual sciences, not dealing with the individual section of reality or its specific aspect, but the subject of human art as a whole; and it is universal science. And today's topic is very complex and we cannot banalise it on entrepreneurship, trade or economy. The economy is covered, and it consists of entrepreneurs, craftsmen, and we make it up after all. And we started pushing it all together into the same basket, entrepreneurship and ownership. There's something about ownership. There's another about entrepreneurship. As an investor, I can set up a company run by someone else. The one who runs it will be paid for his work and this job is the one that is too burdened. If we look at gross income as an employee's income, it's not the employer's cost. Gross gross supplement is the cost of the employer. Doesn't matter, no. And if we look at it, the employer or the employee pays about 45% of what he deserves to get paid. However, the investor pays a maximum of 19 % of what remains of the balance sheet profit, i.e. as an undertaking, and then, if paid as that capital owner, 25 %. If he doesn't pay, he doesn't pay anything; and if the one who runs the company invests, he pays less. The average is 13% in Slovenia and the coalition contract states that this tax would be at least 5%. So for most people, it will not come into play because they are already paying more than five percent. If the average is 13.1%, then this is also taken into account. Today we have heard that we will once be equal in poverty. I think we're the same today. After all, this also showed an article a few days ago in Finance and what I was saying this morning, Gini's chart, and how the lowest wages are distributed in Slovenia. The structure is not good and does not promote productivity. Why is success such a sin in Slovenia? Why are the successful stigmatized? I am sure that because of the thousands of years of history of oppression of Slovenian employment, farmers and small people. Lately due to transition successes or 99% of failures. And we couldn't save that in a recent history. This is also a matter that Parliament should be dealing with, and it does not. There's been a lot of capital disappearing here. He just blew up. And it's not our fault that we're sitting here, we just got here a few months ago. And the government we support is only ten days in its chairs or in its jobs. In this context, social policy does not promote employment. Why isn't he encouraging him? Because employers do not respond to the labour market. Today, employers say that there is insufficient labour and that they must import it. No, it's not the education system. Because wages are too low. And if they unloaded my wages in a way that would put more pressure on the capital, i.e. the owners of businesses, not entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, or most of the time, it happens to be the same person, but that's not necessarily duality. And duality is also paid twice. That's it. At the same time, we must also talk about productivity when we are talking about social policy and employment. How is productivity promoted? It must be encouraged, not punished. We're too normal, and it looks like we're just working too hard. And then most of it's on minimum wage. Speaking of statistics, we probably got things wrong this morning. If we have a company, I will now invent it completely, which has 100 employees, the head of this company earns EUR 120 000 per year and 99 employees every 12 thousand euros per year, then the average salary in this company is EUR 13 000 per year. That means, on average, everyone has an average salary, but they don't actually have one. Therefore, statistics can be a big lie in small truths. But the truth is, it has a 99% lower salary than that one percent. That's why I was talking about statistics being misleading. That's it. I think we have a lot of work to do. I'm glad this thing opened up, but what does that tell me?Oh, my God! The fact that we have to come together and talk. If it bothers you, it's great to distract you, but not make some drama out of it. Let us be constructive and not strike each other, for this does not lead anywhere. And even when people look at us, they will say – because you're just fighting, you're pointless, you're stupid, and you're just smart; but do nothing anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word is Primoz Siter. And get us ready, Dr. Darius Kryczych. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Eight hours and 10 minutes, some material has accumulated, but I'm glad we're finally talking about things that are up-to-date in 2018. Yesterday we made a little joke on the committee that we always hear about the winter-green themes of the OK format, Venezuela is already, we haven't done it yet, and we've left the Union of Fighters at this meeting on the page. [[…]] I am delighted that we are in 2018. At the same time, I express my enthusiasm for the content of our entire debate. I'll comment on some sparks that came from the SDS. But I have to share my enthusiasm with NSI. Although we are standing on different shores, we have established, I think, a nice bridge in communication. Yesterday's board meeting built a successful bridge between Levica and entrepreneurs who came, and I also like how we connected with colleague Vrtovac. Today we also discussed numbers with our colleague Horvato. Dialogue, dialogue is possible in a democratic process, we may be standing on different shores, but that is no reason to look at each other in black. That is why I am particularly sad on the other hand when I have heard some things in the debate today that I simply need to enlighten. The proponent says, "I won't lose my words about Lefty. Your colleague said there's no help for Levi. We are actively involved in solving some social situation in Slovenia, taking a little personal. And then colleague Jan Mahnic with his smugness about how he works with the economists; but we do not. I also visit the MOS, and I am a member of the Left. About Luka being a schmuck, letting a colleague of the vice president stop chewing gum and we're high on drugs in Levica. That's absurd. This is the collapse of the democratic system in this institution. But I'd like to go on some more substantive stuff. My friend Pogačnik said you called this meeting for a hostile speech. I am glad that we have started to convene meetings for the enemy speech, because then we will also convene a meeting on this page based on the hate speech and, oh, how much material we have. Yesterday – if you remember your colleagues on the committee – we highlighted some of the points you listed in the call for a meeting. I'd walk over them, and then I'd ask you for a flat-rate answer. You are talking about the harmful effects of political measures and reforms that are listed in this coalition contract. In order to prosecute and oppress Slovenian entrepreneurs, the representatives of entrepreneurs, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to warn that the proposed financial burdens on entrepreneurs are criminalised and put in place a system following the example of North Korea, Cuba and Venezuela. In the introduction, a colleague of Luke the Moon has already set a few words for this. My question is, are we comparing the tax systems of Cuba, North Korea and Venezuela, on the one hand, and the tax systems of the developed countries of the European Union, the OECD countries, which group is more suited to the measures proposed by this coalition treaty? They're calling Cuba? They're calling from North Korea? Are they calling after the economic development that we can see and follow in these cases some good practice developed countries? For example; supplementary health insurance will be abolished, the real coalition contract, and transferred to compulsory health insurance when maintaining the same level of rights; very Korean. Then, a health cent on excise duty, on alcohol, tobacco and sweet drinks criminalizes entrepreneurship. Of course, by considering the possibility of reshaping in the direction of the so-called living scale we will properly arrange the minimum wage. If I now quote my colleagues from SDS – "this is the ultimate measure, this is a radical left-wing measure", raise the minimum wage. We will update the Law on the participation of workers in management and the Act on the Compulsory Participation of Workers in Profit. We can really be afraid of being the Devil of the Cross if we have already talked about various interventions from above today. We will impose a premium on all transactions in tax havens, we will adopt a law on the so-called cultural euro, which we have already discussed on the committee yesterday, how we love to demonise culture, how we love to demonise everything that comes with the FDV, and everything that bears the omen of a non-governmental organisation. In addition to this brilliant pianist action, which you have taken with reference to this session and in the weeks before it, in conjunction with a group of entrepreneurs; in addition to the fact that this action is a pianist genius carried out, brilliantly placed in Slovenian public space, which miraculously demonizes everything on the left, every proposal, and which demonizes people personally of our kind. Beyond what I congratulate you as a pianist, what is the content of your proposal? What is the better alternative to what our measure proposes, put into the coalition contract? What are those measures, those better alternatives, those proactive postures? We would like to hear this and then we can talk about how we come together in a democratic dialogue and do something together, as we have heard so many times today, for the benefit of all the people and people of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u165	Thank you. Dr. Darius Krajčič has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we have heard a great deal of criticism at the expense of the coalition agreement to promote an increase in administrative barriers, centralisation; I have not seen anything like it anywhere in there, not even the other way around. You know well that this government and coalition will do everything in their power to put an administrative burden on the economy and society as such. We have also heard that only entrepreneurs are the most pro-pulsive part of this society. You know, I taught entrepreneurship at the university. In each social group, we have the most propulsive and slightly less propulsive. Or great, and medium worse, among entrepreneurs, among athletes, among teachers, but you know that even among politicians. And it can't be just one social group, because it's just not a community. We can only function in this country as a community, not favour a social group, any one. Even if we said that we would favor only professors and scientists or that we would favor only athletes, that's not right. All social groups should simply have approximately the same opportunities for their existence and development. We have also heard that the escape of the brain from Slovenia, which is indeed in one part; and that the faults are too low wages and too high taxation, just as the coalition agreement shows, shows a comprehensive tax reform. Well, that's no big deal. That's not what the coalition invented. This is a recommendation at the end of the OECD. You probably know, don't you? You must know, in 2009, in Paris, when we entered the OECD, I defended this country in one area. The OECD is an organisation that gives some reports, recommendations, comparisons at the level of the world's most developed countries and shows many examples; not always. Also, some of their recommendations were unusual for some countries, as these recommendations need to be translated into a slightly more local environment. We have also heard today that the economy worked best now that the government was gone. At the same time, the same debater said that companies had fled to Slovakia during this time. Now it's time to decide again which one is true. If it worked best, if there is no government, then it is best that we do not have a government; but then there can be no way that companies have run to Slovakia. Only one of these is real. Someone said Bauhaus moved his transactions to Austria. I have now looked at Ipes – all the accounts Bauhaus has, have SI56, which means Slovenia, not to list the bank in which it has its transaction account. I think it would be very good if we talked about the truths, the facts they're holding, even those that are very easy to check here, at some Google, just the ones that need to be looked for a little bit more to get to the truth. I come from the constituency of Upper Savina Valley. There is a congregation called the Municipality of Nazarje, and it has a free primary school and boasts about it. Although she says she's the only one in Slovenia, I don't know, but I know she's free. This means that whatever parents should pay for some additional activities in school, from school in nature, notebooks, I don’t know what, the congregation finances. He can get the money for it, of course he gets it out of taxes, because he can't get it elsewhere. And there are a lot of pro-pulsive companies in this congregation, and I have also spoken to the director of such a pro-pulsive company, which does not employ 15 people, but a few hundred; and it is also an international company, a developmental, high-tech company. This gentleman, who also runs an association of entrepreneurs, said that he very well understands the functioning of the local community in which he works, and also understands his role as a socially beneficial company, he also understands that taxes must be that children of his workers can have a free primary school, because it is probably not necessary for him, but it is for them. And we've also heard about Milton Friedman today that someone's popularized him, and I don't even know who he is anymore. It is necessary to know that Milton Friedman is an economist who advocated liberal capitalism, that the role of the state in his theory has been eliminated practically to the point of privatising everything, not just education, health, social [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u167	Your Honor, electronics automatically shut you down. Thank you for your words. Now he has the word, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Otherwise, Mr Luka Mesec is also on the list, but I see that it is only 7 seconds of time, so I assume that Mr Daniel Krivec is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! I don't have much time at my disposal, so I'm gonna have to hurry. More or less everything has already been said in today's debate. In particular, on our part, by right-wing parties, which we have opened up this topic, the issue of harmful and destructive measures against Slovenian entrepreneurs. This is not what we cooked, but your coalition contract of six parties; and that is why this problem and also this sitting all day. I must say that I am pleased to join all of us who went to defend entrepreneurship, the economy, in short, the industry in this country, which is essentially holding the state up. There's been some back-to-back debates. I'll open one, too, but not Venezuela, that's what Left talked about. I will somehow touch the original sin of many years ago, which was the reason that Slovenia is today where it is. That the minimum wage is small, that the small pensions are, that the tycoons have taken the money to rob the banks and so on. This was immediately after the war, as soon as nationalization was done, about what Leviathan had ideas. Of course, you would like to increase taxes and contributions all the rest, just to burden the economy and all the workers. At the time, in that nationalisation, which was the original sin of everything bad in our country, there were many private companies, with well-known owners and people who were successful and well-maintained. Their companies were destroyed. People were either evicted or killed, whatever. I will only point out one company which can be a case for all of these companies that have been destroyed. And this was the company of Mr Anton or Tonet Knaflic from Kamnik, who also owned the company in Šmartnem near Lithuania. This was a successful company, the gentleman ran the company well, 90% were exports to European countries, including America. And then I even read an article in Youth, which is a very left medium, right, we all know where this story is described. It's nice to see what happened to this man, that the communist authorities, after the accident or whatever, just after the innocent disqualification and the company took over the country, and then he had to drive the boots and coaches at the municipal company in Kamnik. You probably know this story well, and it's just one of many stories. In Wikipedia, however, it is for this particular company and this distinguished gentleman that he has kindly donated the company to the state. In short, this is one example of many, so today we have what we have. We don't need to talk about some minimum wage, and I don't know what it is that tradesmen, entrepreneurs, the economy do well and pay people as much as they can. The state burdens them as much as possible, which is not right. Therefore, I propose once again, let us work together to help deliver effective measures for an enabling business environment for craftsmen and entrepreneurs and to stop by [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u169	Mr. Ambassador, thank you very much. With the length of the debate, you also took away the debate from Mr Daniel Krivec. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representatives of the Government and the representative of the proposers are also given the floor. On behalf of the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I'd like to split my performance today into two parts. In the first part, I would like to talk about the start of the implementation of the coalition treaty; in the second part, I will focus on some key responses to today's debate. In the first part, as I said, I would like to talk in particular about the start of the implementation of the Coalition Treaty. The coalition contract is a fact. It was signed by the parties who entered the coalition. As a representative of the Government alone, I am obliged to start with activities that constitute the implementation of individual measures under this Treaty. Today, in the debate, all the debaters focused on the individual points of this coalition agreement. No one presented or had the time or opportunity to present the entire coalition contract. But when we do, we need to look at this — the whole thing. And the whole series of points in the coalition contract is that they relate to a topic that is now central, that is to taxes, to public finances and to the stability of the public financial environment. We focus on this in particular on the Ministry of Finance, but we are aware that the stability of the public financial environment is the one that provides a stable macroeconomic environment, and this is the possibility of further economic development that can only contribute to the greater well-being of individuals and individuals in the country. The implementation of the coalition contract cannot be ensured through a dictatorship, but through dialogue. And we started this dialogue, we invited representatives of all relevant economic associations and unions to the Ministry on Monday, and we set up a dialogue. It is surprising that we have reached very quickly three common points on which we want to work as a priority. One is primarily within the competence or responsibility of the Ministry, that is to worry about continuing to relieve or reduce administrative burdens in compliance with tax obligations and to close opportunities to avoid paying taxes. We have received support from trade unions and also from economists for these tasks. Together we have also further identified that if we look at the global picture of the Slovenian tax system compared to foreign tax systems, our priority should be to relieve labour costs. At the same time, not only representatives of the ministry but also other participants in the meeting note that the continuation of the fiscal consolidation and stability of the public financial environment is extremely important for further economic development. For this reason, they understandably accept the Ministry's position that we can talk about further restructuring of tax burdens and not a general reduction in tax burdens. And the third area we agreed to address is the modernisation of the real estate taxation system. This is extremely non-stimulating in the current system for economic operators, who are taxed in the vast majority of cases, not at the value of the real estate in which they carry out their business, but after being able to pay. And this is simply not correct from the point of view of fair taxation of property taxes. Of course, in these few days, which we are active in, we have not been able to invite all stakeholders to talk; so far we have invited key stakeholders. We will continue our interviews in the coming weeks or in the coming days with a wide variety of stakeholders. We are not pretending to be able to find a hundred percent consensus on all the proposals we have been talking about. However, we believe that a broader social consensus can be reached on the proposed measures; and we intend to work on that. Yesterday I said that the tax system or tax policy is not just a policy, but a lot of expertise is involved. It takes some time for this profession to develop expertly-based proposals that will not be put on one side of one side of the page and undermine ten others. For this reason, we have agreed on a timetable that will allow the legislative proposals to be prepared for consideration in the National Assembly in the coming year and new solutions implemented in January 2020. The timeline is very ambitious, but I believe that with the constructiveness shown in the direct dialogue all involved are attainable. So much for our plans to implement the signed collective agreement. I would like to make a second point of my debate in response to some of the points made in today's debate. Unfortunately, I cannot respond to everything, although a lot of data and information has been used or misused for a variety of purposes in the debates, some have also been misinterpreted. I will not focus on individual figures regarding the tax system, and this will be an opportunity when we discuss individual legislative proposals. But I will focus on two more general findings. When comparing the macroeconomic environment in one regime or in one mandate with another, we also need to know what economic environment the individual country has been operating in. And just as much economic growth as possible is not necessarily a success. Because if the government measures that fuel this economic growth lead to overheating of the economy, sooner or later there will be a collapse of the economy. And that's what happened at the break from 2008 to 2009. It is true that the figures at the end of the Prime Minister's term are slightly lower, as far as economic growth is concerned, but there are no signs of overheating. And the signs of overheating could be too high inflation, too high a level of lending not by the state, but by businesses and individuals. This is what actually happened in 2007, 2008. Low unemployment, which does not allow new jobs to be opened and therefore exerts a strong pressure on wage growth, which goes through productivity growth; Slovenia is not yet faced with this. And the last element that points to overheating is real estate prices, where we have to turn on the fuses or pay attention to further developments. And these elements are those that indicate that at the moment is not the time for pro-cyclical policy, but is the time for economic policy, which will allow for a further normal level of economic growth without signs of overheating. And that doesn't mean you're lowering taxes right now. Tax levels in Slovenia are below average in the share of GDP compared to European countries. But it's not a nice structure. And I'm going back to the first topic I talked about today. Since the structure of tax burdens is not optimal, we need to focus on restructuring this tax burden. And this is what we intend to focus very intensively on in the coming months at the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u171	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. But get ready for Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Since I only have a few seconds left, I'll continue the debate on time-sharing if you'll excuse me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u173	Mrs. Pretty Chimenka, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. I must express one great disappointment that the distinguished Secretary of State has only spent a few minutes explaining what we have been discussing here today for almost eight, eight and a half hours. The representative of the Ministry of Economy has not even called today. I think that says a lot. Now, really, if they haven't already, we should really start burning all the red lights. I almost don't have the words to do this. We have heard a very important word, which we have already heard in the previous mandate, that is a word of restructuring, which unfortunately means nothing but new taxes for citizens and citizens, as well as for the economy. More than likely, it will start in 2020. One of the first ones, however, will be more than likely a real estate tax. I think the economy has made its point, and it really saddens me. Perhaps the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia read one thing, to politicians on the day of innovation – we are also members of the politicians, and today we were unable to attend the event because we are here at the meeting – the following, this has been published on social networks: "As economic environmental creators, make sure that innovators can successfully innovate even in advance. Let's make sure they take care of us." Unfortunately, this coalition contract doesn't show that. It has been said that the coalition treaty is a fact and it means implementation, we have heard this from the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance. What can I say to you? What can I say to you? What can I say to you? I still think that our session was completely in place, and it's right that we called it. It saddens me that we did not adopt the conclusions of the Committee's recommendations yesterday and that we could also decide on this today; yet I will restore them in the grave, that even those who have listened to this today will know what we are talking about. The first recommendation was that coalition parties, together with the representatives of the economy, would somehow agree on a new content of a coalition treaty that would not destroy Slovenia's economic development. The second recommendation was for officials to refrain from the untruths, deceptions and insults directed at Slovenian entrepreneurs. So, well-intentioned recommendations, unfortunately for both sides of the six coalition parties there was no support, and I think that says a lot. However, in some ways I am pleased by the debate in the National Assembly. Maybe there are some positive lights, some positive signals. I hope that at least part of this coalition realizes that, with regard to a number of measures, it will be much easier to find a common language here on the right because it is more sound-minded and more appropriate today than elsewhere. I believe we will have a chance to discuss many issues in the future. It seems crucial to me that entrepreneurship in Slovenia should be of value. Unfortunately, with some of these signals, we give exactly the opposite opinion. Today, those who desire creation, those who have talent, and those who hope, do not find it difficult to go elsewhere. It's probably a decisive decision, but they'd rather open up a company somewhere else. I feel sorry for any young man who goes abroad. I am sorry for any company that will move abroad also due to excessive taxation in Slovenia. Unfortunately, it is that entrepreneurs are looking for opportunities, an entrepreneur basically creates an enterprise to create profits, because if it creates a loss, I don't know why entrepreneurship would go. Profit is something that is reality, and even the additional taxes on this profit will probably be realized, as entrepreneurs have already announced. The task of all of us here in the National Assembly is to adopt such legislation as to enable the economy to breathe, to enable the economy to develop. Unfortunately, if you realize what you have put into the coalition contract, which is for some of the facts, I fear that you will achieve just the opposite effect. As has been said here many times today, it is not too late. It is still possible to correct things and again appeal to you to win some voice of reason and to have entrepreneurship and the economy get the place they deserve because it depends on what kind of social state we have and what prosperity our citizens and citizens have.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u175	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I now note that there is still a desire for the debate that Mr Jožef Horvat has already expressed before. Therefore, only as an information that they have the opportunity to apply for time-sharing, including the applicants and the Government. In the event of time sharing, you get the word as the last, before you, a representative or a representative of the Government. Right now, I'm opening a time-sharing session, starting. Anyone who wants to sign up should sign up. I'm guessing we have nine applicants. The time available is 3 minutes 38 seconds per debater. First of all, Mr Andrej Šushmelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. If I describe a summary of what was happening today in the National Assembly, an inappropriate statement by one of the members of the Left, followed by a further inappropriate statement by the affected entrepreneur, who is similarly as bombastic as the first one; on the basis of what is indicated by a trend, the future behaviour of the government, which I have not observed anywhere, not in the coalition contract, not in our programme, not anywhere else. At Alenka Bratušek, we were convinced from the beginning that more should be created first, with the support of the economy, so that we could share more. Deplete incomes and thus give the economy and employees a better chance, then on the other hand, they may tax capital, so that the owners of businesses may gain little from it. However, it is necessary to stick to European lighthouses, and perhaps Slovenia should be even more competitive in terms of its development, because we cannot compare ourselves with the richest countries, that is certainly true. Politics goes in the direction of small steps, small changes, and not some revolutionary taxation that would drive entrepreneurs away. And I'm sure no one in this coalition thinks differently than gradual, small measures. As far as land taxation is concerned, I'd like to add this. In Slovenia we have severe problems with real estate, which are or are abandoned, in the hills, in demogeographically endangered areas, or do we have apartments in the city centres for which it is not possible to make a decision because owners are speculating and waiting for price movements; young families are left without apartments that are empty and are not waiting for anyone. As a result, we also need a possible small step towards increasing contributions or taxation of property. I am not saying that we need some huge action, but one small step; let us see its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs. Jerca Korcea has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u178	President, thank you for your word. Today's debate has essentially shown exactly what we expected it to be. It's a public play, Mrs. Nice Chimenko. 13 days after the appointment of the government, you are calling for a meeting where you are talking about destroying the Slovenian economy. I can be the theater myself, and we're gonna go play theater. We will not destroy the Slovenian economy. The Coalition Treaty is a document of the direction of development of Slovenia, I repeat. And the fact that each of us creates added value; I am grateful to my colleague Horvath that this wisdom has somehow prevailed, has given me one very good point, to which I have always warned. We had independence, common goal, consensus. We have had entry into the European Union, we have reached consensus. At this point, all of us, the whole country lacks a third goal. What is now the third goal that we will all take together, and where will we take this country? And the goal of this coalition, I believe, is to maintain a healthy economy where we can develop. And the economy is not three, four entrepreneurs or two associations; the economy is a broader concept and more. It also represents start-ups and also represents one of the successful entrepreneurs with whom I spoke and which supports these taxes. This coalition contract also represents the people behind it, the people who are experts in their field and will do everything in its entirety. I think that the Secretary of State has said things well and that matters are well understood enough that some partial measures that may cause harm will not be taken. And that we'll weigh every single thing. As I said, we will coordinate the issue of solidarity on the one hand because we want to be a solidarity society, at least so I hope, which means that we spend €6,000 400 a year for one student in primary school, that we have a heart transplant of €130,000, give birth, say, €4,000; and that we want to properly fill in the cash register and, on the other hand, provide these services. I hope that we all understand this well enough here, and that we will not allow the distribution to this extent, that only someone will be able to afford these services, while you are a normal citizen because of your economic situation will not be able to afford it. In order to be able to provide social assistance to those who for such and other reasons cannot work, they are also in our society, but of course we will try to avoid the situation in which someone misuses this social assistance. And we also know that it exists in our society. Thank you for this performance for the public; if I did not accompany her in the hall, I am outside the hall. I hope that such performances will be as few as possible for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u179	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, Mr Aljaž Kovacič is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is the last time I've heard from this town. I thank everyone for the debate. Our only tool, colleagues and colleagues, is the word, is the debate, I wish it were always argued. This isn't a show for the public. However, I am glad that you have heard that you have heard of the idea of New Slovenia, we need a third consensus. We need a third consensus, it won't be different. You know, Madam Secretary of State, I agree that taxes have to be restructured – I have been listening to this for four years and I am tired of it. Why is it the easiest thing to collect over income, over wages? Why is it the easiest thing to pick up a development engineer? Because he brings, you don't collect, he brings this income, this tax. And since he's underpaid, he goes to another company, he goes out. But those, because, yes, I understand, I know, are also taxed also luxury, let us get through this restructuring as quickly as possible, we cannot wait until the beginning of 2020, if I understand you correctly. [[…]] We want to have higher wages in Slovenia. At the beginning of the year, I did an analysis, collected numbers – I don't have time to explain the total table to you – from the relevant sources of information and found at the beginning of this year and looked at 4 years ago that in Slovenia gross wages for a four-year period have grown, you won't believe for a bad 5% and 4.87% respectively. I will not praise Romania, where wages grew by 51 in the same period, I will not boast because they were low there and are still low. What do you say about Austria, where wages increased by 29% during this period? And in Lithuania by 25 and Latvia by 25 and Germany by 21%, we by 4%. Why are we so much worse, ladies and gentlemen? It has been said that these entrepreneurs, in fact our entrepreneurial stars, “how much money have they received from the state treasury”, “let’s stop subsidies, this is New Slovenia’s policy, and create a competitive business environment for all”. How much did the state's assets cost us? What is the price of State ownership in the period 2008-2014? Do you know what kind? 13 billion. Banks, subsidies to state companies, 1.6 billion, recapitalisation, lost profits and so on and so on. Let's do something in this area. We all know what we have to do. I expect, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, that you will be the next to call a similar meeting. Let us continue this debate. Someone said, I think Mrs. Candidate for Mayor of my Maribor; yes, in some ways it is mine, I was there in high school and we are heartened: "Let's stop and start working." Yeah, what's our job? Let's write laws, put in a parliamentary procedure – we wrote four. Let us put these laws to the committees as soon as possible, Mr President, and let us discuss them. You'll probably hit most of them, not because they're bad, but because they're from the opposition. Look, here's the first test. I'm very happy to see you. We've met about Ginny's coefficient. We are an egalitarian society – yes, in poverty. We don't want to live in a country like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. After Mr. Aljaž Kovacic, prepare the mags. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the beginning, let me just correct you that I am Kováčič, because something has already been said about last names. I have great respect for Slovenian entrepreneurs, but nothing more than respect for other successful people who carry out various professions. It is also said that good teachers, good doctors, and, last but not least, I respect good policies. What am I trying to say? That we have good people and bad people in all our professions. I would like to refer here to Mrs State Secretary, who has said something crucial. Today was a coalition contract, sometimes called a coalition contract of five parties, sometimes a coalition contract of six parties, and sometimes you even said it wasn't a coalition contract at all, but it was an agreement that some of the facts were taken from the context. [[…]] So, we need to look at the coalition contract in an integrated way, and only then will we get the results. Also, the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, said that we would talk to everyone. Here I believe that the response of Slovenian entrepreneurs was also slightly more childish if I can use this term. Even young people often, I'll say, threaten to go abroad because it's better there, but it's not always for the better. Thus, the Prime Minister of the Government has said that he will talk to everyone, so I have no doubt that he will sit down with all the entrepreneurs or their representatives to find a good solution. As for the question that Mrs State Secretary, or the government, has used little time to answer – you know, over time, you can talk a lot and say a little bit, but you can talk a little bit less and say a lot more. But if ten Members say the same thing, then there is plenty of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr Member, for your opinion and for your correction. I'll teach him. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare for Dr. Darius Kryčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u184	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! First, some explanations or answers have been made since the previous debate. Mrs. Natasa Sukić, we're talking property tax. If you are thinking only of the biggest ones that some, two, three, four, five properties and so on, this is regulated in Slovenia already today with the so-called citizen tax, when a particular tax is paid. And second, when it comes to real estate, real estate tax, it's all about all of the real estate, and it's about the fact that people for high taxes are simply not going to have money and there's going to be an additional centralisation of real estate in this country. This is, in my opinion, and already in the previous debates that we have had about the tax that has fallen, this has actually proved to be true. Secondly, there was also a question on the part of the Left about where we had to make some good suggestions. Look, go to the SDS website and you'll find them. But critique them and come here and we'll talk about them. We have good suggestions, today this is not really the purpose, we also had them throughout the whole period. Colleagues and colleagues, I, for the first time, would not say that this is a performance for the public, but that it is something lame and so on. All new Members – this is your job. Do not minimize your work or diminish the importance of our work. By doing this you harm yourself, by doing your job if you want, or by sending a Member so small, and that is why people act like that if you always say that it is something without connection and so on. There is nothing without connection, and the opposition has the right and duty to warn. As the Fiscal Council has also pointed out the coalition contract and the financial non-resistance of this coalition contract and, as entrepreneurs have pointed out, the commercial incontinence of this coalition contract, as business conditions, tax conditions will be changed so much that competitiveness will be reduced and entrepreneurs will go out. That's why we're talking today about a coalition treaty signed by your presidents. Today, when I listen to you, I don't really know, look – do you have the same thing, or do you agree with your presidents? For they have signed something completely different than what you say today. It's completely different. And I don't know if you agree with your presidents or the presidents are doing this on their own or if you've had any advice on this and so on. I am positively surprised at some of the debates – that it will not be so that it will be different, that there will be better conditions, that we will all work for better conditions and so on. But look what it says in there. See what it says in addition to some nonsense or some things that are already in place today, such as that tax on transactions in tax havens. We already have this today, it's out of the question. But once again, you are totally in disagreement with your presidents who signed this coalition treaty, so ask yourselves whose name they signed it for.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dr Darij Krajčič has the floor and then Mr Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank an experienced colleague who has taught us what our task is and what is the task of Members, but if I have observed this room today, I have seen a large part of the day relatively empty on the proposaler's side. There were also four or five, but there were relatively many of us who discussed. I'm glad it's a consensus that our tool is a word. But a word can be problematic if it is distorted, if it is false, if it is manipulative, so I agree with you to let us have a conversation with the arguments. And if someone tells me, you understand that Bauhaus accounts are moving to Austria, and I open up Apples here just to see where Bauhaus accounts are, and I see that everyone is SI56, that everybody knows where he is. And in this way, by distorting words, we then have a much harder conversation. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State was able, in fact, to say in two sentences what is the basis of the story — that taxes need to be restructured because they are poorly structured compared to other countries, and another fact that they are lower than the average. Whether we are going to raise it now or not, of course, is another question, but we really need to change the structure. And to finish my previous thought about Milton Friedman, an economist from the 1960s who was a terrible advocate of economic freedom, the privatisation of everything, not just education and what I already said, but also defences, security forces, everything. He was Mrs Thatcher's advisor, as we know, Mr Reagan, and one of the actions of the government of Thatcher was also, as you recall, the privatisation of British railways. If you're reading a little bit of media, you've probably noticed that now the conservative government is thinking about backing up British railways, which would take about five years. And another fact is, Friedman's economy is in no way going along with the social market model of the economy, which we have also heard we would like to have. It's time to make up your mind again. There is no middle way, because there are two very different philosophies. And it is certainly what we, the coalition, support the second social market economic model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Pavšič has the floor to prepare a representative of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u188	Thank you again, and I hope this is the last time. Next answer. My job isn't really a show. The Member's job is to make a decision, not to speak. And I believe that when you didn't sit there, you did something else, didn't go to nothing. And the same would have happened if today's session had not been, but we would have done something else. And another thing is, in our decision-making, we're also based on your conclusion, which I think is completely wrong, but still, completely sovereign. No matter what they think and sign our presidents. One interesting fact is that, despite disagreements over today's subject matter, we have reached some consensus and no one has detected it here. You said we rejected the recommendations. I don't think we've turned them down so we've listened to them. The opinion today also states on the first recommendation: "The government will endeavour to further coordinate all possible measures arising from the coalition agreement with all expert and other stakeholders. The operation of the Government will aim to create a strong, open and innovative economy." So they heard you, and so did we. As for the second recommendation, they say: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to this ensures that it will strive to seek solutions in constructive dialogue with economic operators and all other stakeholders, which will contribute both to the Slovenian economy and to all citizens." And we've all condemned these individual escapades that aren't right, but you have to admit, sometimes one happens on your side, and we get excited out. So, of course, we condemn such calls, it is not appropriate for the human being, but at least for the Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Secretary of State shall have the floor and, as the last Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, shall have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President, again for your word. At the hearing, the current Minister of Finance has already highlighted as his priority the creation of a business environment that will stimulate further economic development and any changes that he or she will propose or advocate as a member of the Government in order to prepare himself in a prudent and comprehensive manner. A single tax measure, which has been, only some of which we have discussed all day today, can undermine the very sensitive balance that currently exists under the tax system. For this reason, it is irresponsible to tear out one measure and enforce it without thinking about what it means or what domino effect it has. And that is why, as I have already said, we have set up on Monday a very broad programme of changes in the tax area, for which all the participating stakeholders have agreed that they are necessary, and we will work on this and we will take the time we need to prepare things professionally and comprehensively. The other axiom, also mentioned by the current Minister of Finance and which I myself have been very intensely advocating and have advocated before, is that measures must be prepared so as not to endanger public financial stability. I firmly believe that fiscal stability is the basis for macroeconomic stability and that the economy can achieve the results it achieves. As a result, the Government cannot afford only a suitable measure to reduce some excessive tax burdens, but it must consider how it will ensure a stable public financial framework. And if you look at data on the share of taxes and other sources of income for all four public cash and expenditure over the past four years, you will see that they are falling in the proportion of GDP and are on average or slightly below the average of European countries. Therefore, we are not so accomplished nor as to tax burdens and not as regards public consumption. However, it is of course an issue of efficiency and of tax-related structure, and we must continue to focus not only on the debate but also on concrete measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u191	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. As the last one, Mrs Susana Leup Šimenka has the floor on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u192	Thank you very much. It was said that in a few words too, much more can be said — yes. In fact, the Secretary of State said very briefly: the coalition treaty is a fact and it means implementation. In a few words, she said everything you were wondering about here, and you've seen it for, like, eight hours today. It has also been said that we have taken individual measures out, OK, if we have done so, I believe that the Fiscal Council has viewed the coalition contract as a whole. [[…]] And also the opinion of the Fiscal Council is considered to be a coalition contract as a whole, and so they wrote: “Consequent implementation of the envisaged measures could significantly exacerbate the state of public finances.” Well? Is there anything else you need to add to this? But we already know what lies ahead. We have new taxes ahead of us, and all we were talking about was talking about the revenue side of the budget, and I don't know why we might not put anything else on the expenditure side, and we could do a lot of things about it. But whatever. The real estate tax was exposed here somewhere: a gradual small measure to free property. True, there are many of them, many of them also in the area from which I come, in the Haloz area, a lot of such uninhabited properties, a lot of residential weekends that people have inherited and cared for. They take care of those small vineyards and make sure that the land and landscape are well worked. Now what? Now these people, who are already barely going from month to month, are still going to pay extra for these properties that are not luxury. So, really, please, let's have a little thought. As far as the economy is concerned, we do not have a real estate tax today. We are paying compensation for the use of building land. It's true, when you go, I don't know, to Bankanet and pay the bill, you already have a real estate tax there, but it's not, but it's a compensation for the use of building land. But when you pay for it, it's already the right direction and it's already indicated which way things are going. Many things in this context are the domain of the municipality, the municipality decides how much a company will pay. And now, of course, you want to put this on some of the same denominator – okay, because that's your decision. Of course, we will not support such measures in the future, but, as has already been pointed out, we will support everything that will be for the benefit of the Slovenian economy and for the benefit of Slovenian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u193	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. With this, honourable Members and Members, I conclude this item on the agenda and interrupt the 9th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote or consideration of item 3 of the agenda at 19.20. Thank you. One more time, 19.20. That'll be six minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 19.14 and resumed at 19.21.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u194	Dear Members, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the Assembly and move on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting devices. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The panellists are not present and therefore we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve a member of mags in the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Bojan Krajnc. We're voting. I take it we're inconclusive. I wanted to move the meeting to tomorrow at eight, but the representative of the sectional service reminds me to repeat, so we will vote again. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby grant you a 10-minute recess. (The sitting was suspended at 7.23 p.m. and resumed at 19.35 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our 9th meeting, which is adjourned. Procedurally. Just one moment, I'm sorry. I have just been informed that there is no procedural possibility during the voting phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u196	Mr President, procedurally, it is always possible, and so it is written in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u197	Allow me one minute to consult with the legal department. We're adjourning the session in one minute. (The sitting was suspended at 19.35 and resumed at 19.36)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our meeting. I've got a position that allows me to decide for myself, so you have procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u199	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. I'm sorry there was this complication today. As you all know, colleagues and colleagues, including those who were not here, our Group of Members has announced obstruction. However, to avoid any doubt, this obstruction applies both to the previous point and to this point. So we're also obstructing this point to avoid any other explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u200	More than a proposal, we have received information, but so be it. This brings the honourable Members and Members back to the vote, for the third time. We decide to dismiss a member of the Statistical Council of Mags. Bojana Kranjca. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving to the Notice of the Supreme Court in Maribor, Criminal Section, on criminal proceedings against Member Dejan Kaloh. The report was forwarded to the Supreme Court in Maribor, the Section of Kazenski. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the Supreme Court in Maribor, Section of Penalty, No. 2 KP46615/2015 of 30 July 2018 on criminal proceedings against the Member of Mag. Mr Kaloha, referring to the appeals against IK46615/2015 for a criminal offence of regret, secondly, with regard to the first paragraph of Article 158 of the Penal Code, does not grant immunity to a member of the Magi. Diane Kaloha. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members, we are starting the vote. Do you know, honourable Member, where the obstacle is? The debate can only be held in closed session. Would you like us to close the session? [[advertising from the hall]] Our request is that you pay attention to the words that there will be no need to close the session. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u201	Thank you. There won't be a problem, President. It is more about the previous vote. A minority government is an advantage, said Prime Minister Sarec. Ladies and gentlemen, at the previous point, you saw what a minority government means. You can't even vote without the opposition. Yes, thank the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia for saving your wages for this day, Mr President. But I will vote as our Member's wishes were, so I will not vote for his immunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-26-SDZ8-Izredna-09.ana.u202	Thanks for the explanation. If I am now joking about what I have learned, it is now agreed that we have a minority government in Slovenia. I thank you for your consent. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our vote. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[in favour of 49 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to finding out that the post has ceased as a member of the National Election Commission. On 8 May 2018, the National Election Commission informed the National Assembly that Iztok Majhenič had been appointed representative of the list of candidates for early elections to the National Assembly, which was held on 3 June 2018. The first paragraph of Article 25 of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly provides that a member of the electoral authority cannot run for election at the same time and cannot be appointed a representative or a secretary of the list of candidates. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 25 of that Act, a member of the electoral authority shall cease to function if he accepts the candidacy or is appointed representative or secretary of the list of candidates. Having regard to the above-mentioned Rules of Procedure, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 25, paragraph 2, in conjunction with Article 32 of the Law on Elections, the National Assembly and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be informed of the following decision: 5. 2018, notes that Mr Iztok Majhenič was appointed representative of the list of candidates for the early elections to the National Assembly, which were 3. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, under the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, he ceased to serve as a member of the State Election Commission. I note, honourable Members and Members, that the Council of State took note of the decision. We turn to the proposal for a decision appointing the Chair of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space and Vice-President of the Committee on Culture. The draft Decision is prepared on the basis of the proposals of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc and the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek of 21 September 2018 and 26 September 2018. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm guessing there's no wish for an application. Does he want the word of an MP or an MP? I'm guessing there's no desire to discuss it. This brings us to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Mr Edvard Paulič to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space for President. However, Mr Andrej Šushmelj is appointed Vice-President of the Committee on Culture. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of Vice-Presidents of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The proposal for a decision is prepared on the basis of a proposal from the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca of 26 September 2018. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. Do Members and Members want the word? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government to be resolved by Vice-President Edward Paulic and Mr Igor Peček as Vice-President. In the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Vice-President Igor Peček is hereby dismissed and is appointed Vice-President Nina Maurovic. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and wish you all the best. The meeting was closed on 26 September 2018 at 19.46 p.m.
