ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 5th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by a member of the Magi. Dean Kaloh. At the meeting, I invited a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government, Marjan Sarc, representatives of the Government. All present, including the media force, welcome! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda yesterday, 16 August 2018, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. With regard to the proposals concerning the agenda, I inform you that I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the 4th item from the agenda. The proposal to extend the agenda by item Proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Matthew Tonin, was tabled on 16 August 2018 and has today been withdrawn. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We are moving on to a decision, so I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item – Proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 4th extraordinary meeting, on 27 July 2018, the National Assembly took note of the conclusion that the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor informed the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 111(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 225(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he would not propose a candidate for the President of the Government. On 28 July 2018, the deadline set out in Article 111, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in which candidates for the President of the Government could be proposed, expired on 10 August 2018. During this period, on 8 August 2018, a group of 43 Members and Members, signed by Branet Golubović to the National Assembly, proposed to elect Marjan Šarc as Prime Minister. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Tina Heferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We believe in the LMŠ Group that the time has come for a new generation to enter Slovenian politics, because in our country it is time to now, more at any time, every individual, i.e. every human being, starts to work honestly for our community and for our country. We unanimously and proudly support the candidate for the new Prime Minister of the Government, our party president, Mr Marjan Sarc. He is a man who knows and will put the interests of the State and all its citizens ahead of the partial interest of individuals and stakeholders. Only a community created on such grounds is one that will create a better, more stable and fairer country for all its citizens. The objectives set will require challenging and responsible tasks, and we will all have to pursue a more practical policy, one that will be at the service of people and not the other. Therefore, a different policy, a policy that can be a person who is aware of a high political culture, based on the respect of an interlocutor who is aware of the need to move from words to actions, and a policy that has the ability to integrate different views. It is these qualities that have led our party's president, Marjan Sarca, to today's candidacy for the new Prime Minister of the Government. No one expects him to be able to work in the coalition, but at least a future mandate-holder, but we do not have to worry about the stability of the new government, even though it will be a so-called minority. In our Group of Members, we have full confidence in the capacity of our President, and it must be stressed that his communication skills and leadership are such that we can hope that the government under his leadership will be effective, operational and efficient. Last but not least, as a successful leader, he proved himself in the past weeks when he negotiated for the composition of a coalition agreement, when he managed to combine all the content views of diametrically opposed political parties when he was willing to show courage, will and desire to take responsibility for the situation that we know is not easy today. Anyone who might have already thrown a rifle into the corn before, or perhaps even hoped to take on this leading role, would have taken over the leadership of the government, which the entire political public has already condemned in advance to some failure, even though it has not yet been created. Marjan Šarec does not fear all these situations, does not flee from them, and does not hide from them in silence. Instead of unnecessary words, he simply went to work. And it is precisely this determination that the future new Prime Minister of the Government has that is lacking in the Slovenian political space. Allow me to borrow the thought of an Irish writer and political theorist, which I think is very appropriate for today: “The state that does not have the means to change is without the means for its existence.” Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Marjan Šarec is a man who has already brought changes to Slovenian politics, and with his election as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we are convinced in the LMŠ Group that the real changes that are necessary for our country are yet to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u3	I give the floor to the candidate for Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to present the Government's programming designs in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u4	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, citizens and citizens, media representatives and other representatives of the public! When I was preparing today’s talk, I thought about how to put into a few lines everything that lies on a person’s soul. People outside the National Assembly building, who are now following us and are not familiar with all the details, are tired of many words and promises. Many of them are therefore not even monitoring policies anymore, as has been shown by the low electoral participation in recent elections. But not just this year, we have been following this trend for several years. Certainly part of the blame goes to the electoral system and much of the political developments in the past. Perhaps it was too much to expect that things would change overnight. People also like the quality of being quick to forget. That is why it seems to us that the assembly of the 13th Slovenian Government is a long and special one, but the view of the history of Slovenia tells us that there is no precedent, but in the past the assembly of governments has been accompanied by such a different event. But the news in the Slovenian political space is that we will get the so-called minority government and the government among each other a lot of equals. Some have already called for nothing from this that such a government has no prospect of being completely incompetent and so on. All of this, of course, is part of democracy and expected. In the past, we have had such and different governments. Let us not forget that everyone has gone through certain turbulences, so talking about stability or instability can be very ungrateful. The government cannot be stable or unstable due to the number of customers it creates, but stability is conditioned by the behaviour of people with government functions. Even in everyday life, we can fear problems or see them as a challenge, how to solve them, and how to improve our lives. Everyone in the future government will have a role and responsibility. This is what it is about taking responsibility for. It is easy to criticize, put yourself above things and speak in style: This is not my problem, this will have to be solved by you. We find such analysts and critics everywhere enough, not just in politics in every part of society. Various comments, in which no one is good enough, flat-rate assessments and forecasts of the future can be helpful. In fact, they give us all a false alibi so that there is nothing to be done, that all of them are the same thieves, and that without bad conscience we can kill the will to work for everyone before he has a chance to show anything. In short, they cultivate a cult of individual dissatisfaction over everything. But compliance is worth those people who are willing to take responsibility for themselves, roll up their sleeves and work. But it will work a lot in all areas and will count the actions not the words spoken every day by thousands. The pre-election campaign focused on health. We were all united that the highest priority must be how to resolve the situation. Even now that we're forming a government, we all agree that it's going to be the hardest place here. People in Slovenia are not or very little interested in what we discuss at round tables at closed or open sessions, who made this or those procedural proposal, who cares more or less and similar things. People expect a state of affairs and a reduction in waiting times and a realization that someone cares about them. A patient who meets the system must have confidence that it will be kept from melting from one institution to another. Each person deserves the comprehensive treatment offered or offered by the public health system. Much depends on the budget, but not on the budget. In every segment of society and in every workplace, we are people who need to make things go as far as possible. That's the way it is in the health system. It consists of people who have chosen, not a profession, but a way of life. Staff in each institution must cooperate, as a doctor without a nurse can do nothing and vice versa so that I do not mention many other staff. The staff has been overloaded many times. These problems cannot only be solved by politics, but by the fact that it is essential to engage in professions and policies, I repeat, and I will many times again that we are the people who make up the whole in the first place. Only humans can do nothing unless the system allows them to do so. It is essential to provide enough money, and it is even more important that this money is directed properly and prudently, without being lost in the system or elsewhere. Information technology needs to be strengthened as it allows flexibility, transparency and, above all, reduces the number of papers and red tape. Healthcare professionals should be maximized in administrative work as each minute spent is less than a minute for the patient. This does not only apply in health care, this applies everywhere where work requires direct contact with people and solving their problems. Public procurement is a huge problem, as the history of Slovenia alone is linked to many affairs with almost every major purchase, that money that disappears in smaller matters is not even mentioned. The situation in the area of health infrastructure is similar when buildings were built indefinitely and pipes were built, and the buildings were blocked by deaths due to misalignment and I do not lose words. If we fall into just one segment and just say there's not enough money, we won't get far. It is a whole system, both within health care and throughout society. We must keep in mind wage relations, the number of personnel, and above all, governance is important. No money or number of doctors per capita can help if the management of the facilities is not optimal. Whoever is in the lead expects everyone to love him and to drain their milk and honey has missed their focus on life. I therefore stress here that I will use all my energy to cooperate with everyone on the ground who will work for the common goal of reducing waiting types and eliminating other problems for the sole benefit of patients. They're the reason we're here. They have chosen us to help them, not so that there can be a third parliamentary programme. Another major challenge is ensuring national security in the light of the world situation. The world we live in is changing, unfortunately not for the better. Security issues come to the fore and each country is forced to face them in such or other forms. At present, of course, it is not the current issue of the classic military attack on Slovenia, but there are other dangers. The defence and security system is crucial for the existence of a state, because without security there are no conditions for the smooth life and well-being of the people. I will not agree to any argument about whether it is more important to the military or the police, because both structures are vital to the normal functioning of the country. In both, there are loving and dedicated people who realize that the existence of our nation has been assured by many sacrifices throughout history. They're not paid enough for their work, but they're doing it loyally because they feel they belong to their country. That won't be enough. It will be necessary to continue to regulate the issue of personnel and equipment while at the same time letting them know that policy values them always, not only when water flows to the throat. It is exactly the same with the security and rescue forces, which are based in large part on voluntary and professional firefighting in addition to Civil Protection. As long as Slovenia has voluntary and professional firefighters with its people, there is no need to fear for life and property. Unfortunately, in the past, we had to experience some of the worst natural disasters, so that the public could understand the importance of these people, who do not themselves as heroes, but do what they feel and conscience. Their status needs to be regulated in a peaceful period, so that we do not have a bad conscience with them in the face of any new trials. Finally, I must also mention both security and intelligence services, which have a great responsibility and must operate at the highest level of professionalism. Slovenia will be safe only if all members of the chain, which consist of a defence-security system, are functioning. The priority remains to protect the southern border, which is the border of the Schengen area, as the number of illegal border crossings is increasing. Slovenia has performed this task successfully so far, and it will continue to do so in the future, regardless of what is happening in our immediate and distant surroundings. Slovenia will only be able to be successful and comparable to others if its economy works well. In doing so, I am referring not only to large companies, but also to small economies. Independent entrepreneurs and family enterprises contribute a good share to economic growth. They face a number of everyday problems that arise most often from non-life legislation. All the party presidents are aware of this and I am sure that we will be able to make a difference. In particular, the economy needs new high-tech investments, where environmental and human health concerns are expressed, while at the same time adding value. Our country has great tourism potential because we are a green destination. Much has been done, but work will not run out in this area. Tourism is an important economic sector, but there is also a human resources and capacity problem. There is an urgent link to the environment and infrastructure, as only with modern road and rail connections will we be competitive and will not lose our good geostrategic position, which is already happening to a certain extent. In particular, rail infrastructure is very outdated and logistics, which is the basis of the modern economy, suffers. Each deadlock causes direct and indirect economic damage which our country cannot afford. In particular, we must be aware that the current high economic growth will not last indefinitely, because we are an export-oriented economy and, as much as it depends on what happens abroad when the new economy cools down, we need to be prepared. At first glance, certain areas are excluded, but they really depend on each other. Without a good budget-filled economy, there are no publicly accessible services on which our society is based. The economic and public sectors are not and cannot be enemies, but they must work hand in hand, although this is unimaginable to many. The public sector cares about us citizens from birth to late age. Many of the public sector is limited only to public administration, which is far from the whole. The flat-rate estimates that the public sector is too large are not in place. It is only a matter of organising and deploying staff and their motivation for good work. Public health and other public services are the basis on which the state stands or falls. We have a public education that teaches excellent staff, but unfortunately many go abroad and don't come back. Our education is becoming a free producer of personnel for abroad. Emigration of young people is a serious problem today, with the effects of past practices. Our society is getting older, the relationship between workers and pensioners is getting worse. The pensioners have even contributed actively to our society and have earned their pension through their work. The pension is not a social transfer, but a payment for the past work is earned. It will be necessary to ensure the sustainability of the system, both by providing jobs to the working population and by establishing the so-called demographic fund, which has been discussed for a long time. A large part of the problems of the working population represent a laxative work that does not guarantee a secure future, so this will be one of the key challenges in the future, as it affects the creation of families and the isolation of young people, and ultimately does not allow social security and the rights of workers for an indefinite period of time. However, not only does the state exist because of the above-mentioned areas but it also needs the spiritual and mental development of the nation, so it is essential to invest in education and education and culture. The Slovenian nation has survived through the centuries, especially to preserve its own language and culture. Foreigners have never been able to destroy it, so it would be unacceptable if that happened now. A nation without its own language and culture can never be equal to others; it can only be in a subordinate position. It is essential to develop a new national programme for culture, but of course also to increase the share of gross domestic product for culture. Slovenia is not a self-sufficient island, but is involved in international integration. Two important objectives were achieved years ago – the entry into the European Union and the NATO Union. This took years of effort and great ambition. Today, there are other challenges, due to the rapidly changing world beyond these integrations, but there is no way to ignore the problems facing the member states of Euro-Atlantic integration. The European Union is at a certain crossroads. Eurosceptics have managed to achieve brexit, which will have far-reaching implications for the whole connection. For example, the European budget will already be a problem. In addition, in practice, Europe is already at two speeds. The European Union will have to find answers to common questions as soon as possible, otherwise the best scenario is not expected. Slovenia must strive to remain in the group of so-called nuclear states. As far as our cooperation with neighbouring countries is concerned, we must strive for good relations while at the same time making further efforts to resolve border and other disputes with Croatia. Our country will chair the Council of the European Union in this mandate, which will require us to draw up an operational plan for implementation itself, and adequate funds and logistical support will also need to be provided. Activities must start immediately. Finally, not only are we represented in the world by ambassadors, but also by people from all internationally recognized segments, athletes make us happy with their successes, and at the same time they are extremely important for the international recognition of our country in the world. In doing so, I would like to say that we must leave a narrow view of the governance of the country and so-called gardening, where everyone is looking only at his area of action. It is essential to act in an integrated manner and to be aware of the importance of each individual and, as a result, to build a related community. Dear High Council! I've touched some areas, I haven't mentioned many, but there's always a dilemma about how to write a dilemma, how to write a speech so it's not too long. The fact that I am standing before you today is a result of long coordination, from the establishment of the National Assembly to today almost one day without activity. At the same time, of course, the activities of some who would say more bad things about me, three quarters of course made up. I am aware that there are many in this country who are convinced that they can run a government better than I do. I am also aware of all my shortcomings and mistakes. But I have courage and perseverance, and above all I am not afraid to take responsibility for my contribution to creating better conditions in the country. And don't worry, I have a university education that I didn't buy, and I can also communicate in foreign languages, so these fears are superfluous. Above all, I love my country, so I will strive for its development with a responsibility to people. But not only to those who have surrounded the LMŠ party at the elections, but to all, because politics is the service of people. I will also strive for a higher level of political culture and a level of communication, because this is also important for the country, not only the economy and the share of the budget intended for an individual project, but also the creation of a positive social climate. Today it is up to you to take the first official step together to form the new government that people are expecting. They did their job on June 3rd, we have to do it today and in the coming days to get an operational government in mid-September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Matjaž Han, for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u6	Thank you very much, distinguished president, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues, respected Marjan Sarec! On 3 June 2018, citizens and citizens of Slovenia went to early elections in the National Assembly for the third time in a row, but we can find that the mandate of the outgoing government lasted virtually all 4 years and beyond and that this mandate, which is now slowly ending, has contributed significantly to the calming of political and economic conditions and has ensured the necessary political stability for the development of our country. I know some of you will say that there have been some misunderstandings, but yet, we have solved misunderstandings as we all do in our families. On 3 June, the elections brought us a strongly divided national assembly, so many parties, nine, have never been in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and the result is, of course, a great fragmentation of political work in this country and political groups. That is why we must and must continue to make so much effort to form a new government and believe that it is not easy. Despite this fragmentation, a more detailed view of the results of the elections also shows that the people in Slovenia in these elections gave the majority of the votes to the political parties of the left-centre political definition. And these parties will be supported today by the appointment of Marjan Šarc as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Sarec was a successful mayor. He was able to convince the second largest number of people in the elections. And that there will be no mistake, that the other vote will form a government, is nothing new in Slovenia, and we will also find many such cases in Europe. We have decided to support the formation of a government under the leadership of the List of Marjan Šarc and Marjan Šarc on the basis of an agreed coalition agreement. We can be pleased that, in the framework of the coalition negotiations, we have been able to bring much closer to the social-democratic themes with which we have convinced people in the elections, and we believe that this is how we will justify their trust. By appointing Mr. Sharc and then the entire ministerial team, we will lay the groundwork for the implementation of the coalition agreement, which, my dears, provides, inter alia, that we will shorten waiting lines in the health sector in order to end supplementary health insurance in order to ensure that pensions are raised [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'll be done soon. We will improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and relieve the wages of workers and also raise the minimum wage. The agreement also provides that we will allocate more resources for research and development and properly regulate the integration of science and the economy and renovate the national research system and thus lay the necessary foundations for the development of our country. And much more is written in this agreement. I believe that, towards the end of the mandate, we will also deal with what has been realized and what has not been achieved. It brings today's appointment of Mr Šarc and then his ministerial team, which will follow, a novelty in Slovenia's political space. Mr Šarc's government will be appointed by vote on the basis of a separate agreement on cooperation between the left-handed government parties and the left-wing party. So we will get the so-called minority government, which, of course, is neither dramatic nor very different from what we can see elsewhere in Europe, because almost one third of governments in Europe are of such a nature and I must remind you that most such governments are also successful. Of course, this novelty from all of us who are entering this path will require a higher degree of political culture – as Mr Marjan has already said. We must be aware that at the same time we are all irreplaceable, one way or another. However, for the sake of the needs and benefits of our country, we must do everything in our power to ensure, for the first time, political stability, and for the second time, that we continue to develop our country. In view of the confidence of the voters and voters in the past elections, the Social Democrats will assume their part of the responsibility, taking on their part to form the next Slovenian government. You know, for the first time, we're standing in the National Assembly, for the second time, we're confident, and for the third time, we hope to take responsibility even when it's hard, and not just when it's easy. We will do everything in our power to ensure that Slovenia remains a social state, that Slovenia is even more advanced, more solidarity and that it is an economically successful country. We believe that our vote in support of Mr Sharpe will be the first step in this direction. I will conclude with the words “Happy Slovenia!” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u7	The word is given by Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u8	Dear President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Modern Centre Party, we are working for a modern and safe Slovenia, which, while ensuring the protection of fundamental human rights and the rule of law, allows everyone to create a decent life. Such basic programming platforms have shaped the client's policy of action in the past and will also be in the future when entering the new coalition. This year's elections are coming for our long-standing talks and the search for a common nominee in commitments that shape the image of the new Slovenian government, the 13th in a row. This does not mean, of course, that this is a prediction of a possible failure, but it may be a challenge for the government to demente the devil with good work, which is attributed to the number thirteen. Mr Marjan Sarec, who today will take responsibility for the creation of a future government, takes up a whole new stage for him, even though in his political career he has come to know no more, and in the shoes of his predecessors, who have drawn political weight from the expertise, direct or direct experience on the national political floor. Taking into account this and taking into account this year's electoral outcome and the plausible arithmetic marked by low electoral participation, the inability of a relative winner to secure a majority in Parliament, and the greater number of other parties who conclude in a coalition or partnership agreement, we are aware of the importance of constructive cooperation in the creation of a future government in the Modern Centre. Connecting the six parties to the so-called combination of five plus one of each of the parties, especially the future Prime Minister of the Government, will require enormous patience, a search for consensus and a sense of co-ordination between the parties, which will be in the common good, i.e. for the benefit of countries and citizens, must also cancel some programming commitments. After all, the conclusion of policy agreements that want to create a better future and work for the well-being of all, does not harm, on the contrary, all signatories will benefit from one of the positive experiences of this mandate, knowing that it is possible and that we know how to work together and solve problems even when the political space is more heterogeneous. With these obstacles, which will need to be overcome or occasionally skipped, positive forecasting will be given to the future government by the results it will follow from previous and previous governments, which are more than optimistic in most of the sources. If I express myself by paraphrasing our greatest poet, we get a dot that doesn't have a millionaire. Following us is the mandate of the government 2014-2018, which, after a long economic crisis, has been marked by rapid economic growth, reduction of unemployment, better living standards for citizens and citizens and greater political stability. Slovenia, however, is experiencing one of the biggest developmental rises in its history. After us, for years, Slovenia moved from the table on which the troika was pushed to another table, the one on which the economic partners are sitting. Evidence is the first major foreign investment in us and new jobs, which mean raising prosperity and new opportunities for a more ambitious development of local communities. The public blood count of our country has improved after a decade and more. Today, when compared with the initial point of the previous mandate, Slovenia is in a significantly better position in all segments of social development: lower unemployment, especially among young people, lower risk of poverty, lower share of the most socially vulnerable people, record economic growth, also achievements in the tourism and entrepreneurship segment, increased added value of jobs, which I cannot precisely measure in numbers and speak in particular of restoring the trust of foreign partners in our country and restoring its reputation in commitments that are considered, especially not to mention. All of this could be done because at the time we were political newcomers at the head of the government coalition in a pool called Slovenian politics, we jumped without weights in the form of destructive modern affairs, with the power that was given to us at that time by a remarkable electoral result and with one goal that we would all be better off having all the more from the development of the country, so that the rules would be the same for all that no more children would remain at the bottom of the stage of development. We still face many serious challenges, most of them having a beard that has been growing for decades or more. Some will require more than just the proverbial will of us, who join the future government, to insist on what is right. These are both reasonable waiting types in health care as well as higher wages and pensions, good public education and encouraging jobs, processed fields and, finally, several good Slovenian films, well-functioning courts and modern transport routes, more home-made food in schools, kindergartens and less offensive speech in public media. It is worth fighting for, it is worth insisting on, and it is also worth participating in such a coalition as we are looking forward to. In the future, Mr Šarec will also need, in addition to hard and responsible work, happiness, a happy hand in choosing the closest co-workers, operatives who will lead key resources and projects, a sense of dialogue with all social groups. But for starters, we need enough votes at today's meeting. Our Group of the Modern Centre Party has enough votes. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Matthew T..
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u10	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! When I stood before you two months ago in front of the constitution of this National Assembly, I spoke of the importance of political decisions, of putting people's interests ahead of the interests of capital, and also, in particular, of human resources and of other parties' appetites, of ending with a policy that always finds an excuse, how and why something cannot be settled. It is difficult for us for two months, two months in which the people and the inhabitants of this country were most concerned, those who decided in elections with a large majority not to want scenarios in Slovenia that are taking place in our area, Hungary, Austria and, lastly, Italy. Voters have mostly spoken in the middle or the left, but it is true that it is very dispersed. But the will of the electorate was clear, the right policy was rejected by the electorate, 52 parliamentary seats belonged to the parties of the centre and the left. Nevertheless, the elections were followed by a near-right turn, with an attempt to include NSI in the coalition, but this scenario torpedoed NSI itself and proved once again that it was and will remain Janša's satellite. In Levica, although the biggest critics of the old politicians and the new ones, we did not avoid responsibility and therefore tried to align ourselves with the environment in order to achieve the will of the electorate and to prevent the right government in the third round. There have been major differences, but in some fundamental areas at least enough that our members and members have assessed that cooperation with such a government is possible, but from the opposition. In Levica, we have become the opposition partner of the minority government by initialling an agreement with five parties. Why? As this future government will not, however, give up privatisation at the head of the New Ljubljana Bank, because it will not abandon the purchase of battalion groups for NATO, as we have seen at the morning meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, because we have not reached the commitment to exclude Hungary from the construction of the second track, because the coalition agreement does not make significant progress in the development of human rights and freedoms. These are some of the red lines of the Left, lines that we're not going to cross in any way, lines that make it impossible for us to be part of this coalition. However, we have reached agreement on a number of topics of key importance for the social development of this country. Together, we have committed ourselves to the rescue and strengthening of public health, the final repair of pensions, the raising of minimum wage and the elimination of poverty, the establishment of housing policies, public transport, climate policy and animal welfare. That is why today we will support Marjan Sarc as Prime Minister of the Government, but the Left as the opposition partner of the minority government will be the corrective one that will push these policies left in the interests of the welfare of all. Despite the differences, we have thus found some common solutions for key areas. What must be the priorities of this government over the next four years and in which we will continue to remind it is to improve the quality and accessibility of public health care. Instead of drifting into the Americanisation of our health system, we need to save and strengthen public health, as this is the first and most important foundation of the social state. By the end of the term of office, however, we must ensure that health care is accessible to everyone and quickly. Secondly, the reduction in the rate of poverty, we must immediately raise the minimum wage and remove the supplements from it and define it so that each of the wages can live with dignity. And the same goes for pensions. We need to draw workers and pensioners out of the misery in which they live despite hard work. Thirdly, the country must start promoting regular employment and start a decisive fight against diversion and root out such exploitation as we need in these times, strengthening the participation of workers in management, rewarding by sharing profits among employees and promoting advanced corporate governance practices such as economic democracy and cooperatives. Fourthly, if we do not want to choke on our own exhausts, we are already late to switch to renewable energy sources and limit greenhouse gas emissions. Why? Because, among other things, we have an essential public infrastructure for passenger transport, which we also need to improve without delay. Another aspect that has been neglected for too long is young and all those who are deprived in one way or another. Decades of absence of any country's housing policy have resulted in abnormal prices for both rent and real estate in general, making it impossible for entire generations to live decently, without either being credited for decades or permanently agreed to pay high rents. And if we want to change that too, we need to start thinking about how to improve the availability of rental apartments as soon as possible. Last but not least, although the list is far from exhausted, Slovenia deserves development, to increase what we could call investing in the future, that is, our children, public funds for education, research and culture. In Levika, we are aware that we will face a government that has a whole range of shortcomings, but this will be the only possible government that will be in the given circumstances, in particular the electoral result. Of course, we would like a left-wing government that is more compatible with us, but the political space currently does not establish these conditions due to such electoral arithmetic. That is why we have decided that the first step towards the formation of this government, namely the election of the President of the Government, the support, the substantive agreement we have coordinated, and the cooperation agreement with the minority government we have agreed on, are enough to establish the basic conditions, as Dr Svetlana Slapšak has called. These basic conditions are the voice of the most vulnerable. These basic conditions are what I call the bad conscience of the future coalition. The left will continue to be a constructive but strict opposition, one that will always put first the welfare of all and not just a handful.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u11	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Joseph Horvat is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Marjan Sarec, Mr. President of the Government! First of all, I must sincerely congratulate you on your courage and also on the great political capital that you have received in particular during the presidential elections. I hope, of course, that as Mr Marjan Sarec and not as the anti-existing President of the Republic of Slovenia. I will repeat the thought, colleagues and colleagues of the ancient Greek philosopher Plato, which I said at the constitution of the National Assembly: “Man is born not only for himself but also for his country.” Our Slovenian homeland is not only fields, mountains and seas that are symbolically covered by Slovenian coat of arms, our Slovenian homeland is also our common spiritual space. Colleagues and colleagues, we are faced with a responsible task, so I hope that from election day to day we have internalized the full responsibility of our mission and have answered the question why people with democratic and free elections have sent us to this temple of democracy to take the best solutions instead of them and for them, for people. And once again, the voters told us what kind of country they wanted to live in. We in Novi Slovenija understood the message of voters: we want to live in a normal democratic, European country in Slovenia, where voters reward successful governments and punish failures by changing power. We do not want to remain a creation where there remain one and the same in power, in fact in new clothes over time. We want a country like this that's facing the stars of the future. We don't want a country that can't say goodbye to a star of the past. We want to live in a country that will be oriented towards Europe and the world. We do not like a country that will look at its own petty health and its view will not reach over the hills of the former Balkan state. We want such a parliamentary democracy in which political parties will represent the interests of citizens and citizens and will thus be a fundamental concern of politics. We want a country where the parties are not exposed to a deep background. We want a country driven by politics from the forefront. This message of voters is understood today, and it will not be different in the future. And what will we get in the next term, as indicated? Apparently, the government, supported by coalition five plus one, we call it the most pragmatic confrontational coalition after independence. This is not in the interest of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, not of Slovenes and Slovenes at all. We are afraid, indeed, that it will only be the executive council of the so-called transition left, whose exclusive task will be to preserve their current privileges or to prevent any changes to the general benefit of our citizens and citizens. Dear Mr. Marjan Sarec! Thank you for your relatively good and accurate recording of the state of Slovenian society. We're probably all together here. I'm sure if all the customers got this assignment, they'd be about as good a picture as you are. What did we miss? In your programme in your performance, we missed how from diagnosis to therapy, how to improve, modernise Slovenian society, Slovenian state and certain social subsystems. You said doctors can't do anything without a nurse, that's what you said. Of course we agree. Is this your health reform, a reform of the health system that is practically collapsing, the last four years more intense than before? Here we expected your specific solutions – how, in what way. We are all talking about public health, and New Slovenia is working for public health. Will you continue with national health care? Will you adopt a different concept of modernising Slovenian health care, which we have not experienced since independence? You were talking about education. We are all for public education, including Nova Slovenija. Do you want this to be an open, more open, European one; or is it just a stalemate, a national one? Aren't you going to leave a private initiative in this area? You said moving young people is a serious problem. I'll sign your statement! Are we now going to talk for four years about how moving young people is a serious problem, or are we going to do something, at least try to do something?Oh, my God! If you have good solutions, I promise you here today that you will have an ally in New Slovenia. You were talking about the Republic of Slovenia, which should remain in the main part of the European Union. How? In what way? Will we wait for someone to give us the label: the Republic of Slovenia – the core part of the European Union? That's what it takes to work, to create credibility. The previous coalition has written in its coalition agreement that the primary task in the field of foreign policy will be to restore the credibility of Slovenia. Today, fellow Members of Parliament from the European Union are asking me when we are going to sue another country or anyone in European courts. That's how they see us. We regret being seen like this. I missed the concept of better financing of local self-government. You're home. You're a master. I'm sure you've renegotiated a lot with your fellow mayors and they've all told you or they'll tell you that the municipalities are actually financially malnourished and that there's no consistent implementation of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen! In Slovenia, most citizens pay fair enough taxes and contributions to have the right to require the country to provide quality services in the area of safety, fair trial, affordable health care, education and social protection, to maintain public municipal infrastructure, to care for the environment and space and to perform qualitatively all those tasks for which a modern European country is established. And with results in these areas, all governments have nothing to show from 2008 until today; they prefer to boast of foreign feathers, with excellent results from the Slovenian economy. To make politics at least half as much as the Slovenian economy with its exports, its knowledge, new products, new markets, employment and so on. Our people expect the future government to provide an environment in which quality, efficient and affordable public services will be available to citizens. They expect that the future government will no longer be a representative of this or that interest group that provides services overpaid with tax money, and that it will prevent the depletion of money from health, pharmacy, IT and large infrastructure projects and its overcrowding in tax havens, thus keeping the transition left politically strong; the same is true of the mafia around the world. It is expected that it will be interested in the quality of life in Slovenia; it will be for every individual and every citizen together; not just in the time of the left governments that poverty is growing in the country, but young people are moving into a more promising environment for their development. Our citizens expect that the country will actually allow entrepreneurs free, I stress the free, economic initiative, in line with the principle – for a good job, good pay to all those who work honestly with their own work and intelligence in this country. The system must be such that it meritocraticly rewards the capable and the concerned; not the individual. The future government is expected to keep Slovenia in the field of the European democratic value and economic environment and to give up flirting with the authoritarian solutions of the Putin regime in Russia. Mag. Matthew Tonin, president of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, was elected president of the National Assembly with 80 votes. In Novi Slovenije we have already stated immediately that his election does not in any way mean the entry of New Slovenia into any coalition. It was agreed that he would resign after the appointment of the new government; but no. Coalition five plus one has reaffirmed the teaching that lies is the immortal soul of communism; and proposes its early resolution. See, that's the difference between us. The Left to achieve the goals, read the material benefits, not the choice of resources, so it is reviving formal democracy; we stick to the given words and formal procedures, even though we have no benefit. We therefore support the decision of the Magi. Tonino to resign himself as President of the National Assembly after the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. And to the end. New Slovenia did well when it stepped out of the negotiations on the future coalition, since in such a demagog political association it could not have achieved virtually nothing from its political agenda. Therefore, in New Slovenia we will continue to maintain principle, dignity and a great deal of patience. Of course, we will be a very active and critical opposition, which will be based on causation and causation of events and empirical data. Members of the New Slovenia Group will vote against the election of Marjan Šarc for the mandate of the Slovenian Government. Dear colleague Marjan Sarec, let us not allow you to be thrown by the old political forces into the dump of history.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek, in her name Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u14	Dear President, dear colleagues! At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we are aware of the responsibility that citizens have entrusted to us in the elections. Before the elections, we have made it clear – we are advocating higher pensions, for all available public health without long-term waiting. We also said that we would take care of our young people who, because of the situation on the labour market, are difficult to afford to move from parents to independence. Thanks to our programme and experience, voters in the Alenka Bratušek Party have identified policies that not only see challenges but are also ready to face challenges. Today we will take the first step towards the left-centred government, in which we will be able to achieve our plans to a large extent. In the negotiations to enter the coalition, we have ensured that the coalition contract contains an increase in the percentage of pensions and the abolition of crisis savings in pensioners. That was our basic condition for entering the coalition. The coalition agreement that we have concluded also provides for an immediate start to the recovery of health chaos. We will provide additional state money for health care and thus activate all available capacities so that none of us will wait for an unacceptable length of time for medical examination or intervention. In the coming mandate, there will also be key challenges to regulating the situation of our young people. When we talk to them, we are particularly reminded of the housing problem, that because of the high rents and housing prices they can't really own. In our pre-election programme, we have therefore foreseen the establishment of a housing and guarantee scheme that would enable young people to buy their apartments more easily. We also announced the gradual provision of more apartments for non-profit rental. This will indeed be achieved by taking over the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Environment and Space. In Alenka Bratušek, we know what it means to run the government; more, we know what it means to run the government in crisis situations. And if we knew then, now that the crisis is gone, we can rule even better. We are prepared for hard work, we have the knowledge, momentum and experience that we will share with our coalition partners on all the key issues. We are ready for a new role, we will be an important part of the decisive and operational left-wing government, which will do what needs to be done to improve life in our country. The mandate for the composition of a strong, experienced and operational government will be entrusted to Mr Marjan Šarc in the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek. To give Mr Sarec a term of office for the composition of the government, all five members of the Alenka Bratušek Party will vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u15	The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor, in its name Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. I'm sorry, my mistake. Please accept your apology. The word shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on its behalf Franz Jurša. One more honest apology!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I'm sorry, but it was my turn, but you'll be yours later. Dear fellows and fellows, all well hailed! A special greeting goes to the candidate for the term of office of Mr Sharpe. After us is the varied summer of making up a coalition, which took place practically before the public eye. You played a lot of different combinations, but for us was the only Marjan Sarec, today's candidate for the Prime Minister. He was the only and only one that was acceptable to our parliamentary group or to our client. The election result brought the fragmentation of votes among nine political parties, which made the negotiations even more difficult; but with our joint strength we succeeded. We have read such and different comments and criticisms in the media, and the public has been surprised, but it should be stressed that these negotiations have not been significantly longer and more difficult than they have been in the past. Just remember the problems Dr. Drnovšek had many times when he made up the government in 1996 for more than three months, and his term came in three and a half months. But then there were significantly fewer media, there were no sensational reports, the Internet was in bandages, Facebook and Twitter at the time. So it is not the first time that the government in Slovenia is formed a little further, only that sometimes everything was going behind closed doors, away from the public, in peace – and so it was right. We have repeatedly heard that Desus appears significantly less in the media during the negotiations than was known in the public. With our statements we did not want to further complicate the negotiations, we have been constructive all the time, because we believe that this is the right way. It is time to perform more; and it is time to give priority to quiet diplomacy, content and cooperation. I must say, in Desus, we are pleased with the negotiations. In the coalition contract we wrote down all the vital interests of our party, these are the rights of the older population. It is important to us that the minimum pensions will rise above the poverty threshold, even widow's pensions will rise, and we are happy that future pensioners will receive a higher rate and thus higher pensions. Regress will continue to be paid to all pensioners, and we have also found a solution to enable pensioners to continue working and at the same time to receive pensions if there is a desire, need and, of course, the health of each individual. After all, after 40 years of honest work, everyone deserves a pension; if he is willing to continue to work, pay all contributions, and continue to serve society, that is only positive. We also consider as a great success the fact that the future coalition has committed itself to finally establishing a demographic fund that will guarantee long-term sustainability of the pension system, which has long been our commitment to the younger generations. We are aware that working in a minority government will be difficult, but the future Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, has proved to be a compromise man, a man with a strong sense of people; we therefore believe that he will be well-manned among all the elements of politics. We hope that the coalition contract won't just be a dead letter on paper, but that's why we'll all have to roll up our sleeves and get to work right away. Desus will be a reliable and country-efficient partner here. As we have already said, we trust Marjan Šarc, we believe that he is able to form and successfully lead the 13th Slovenian government; and we will also help him to do the best we can. It will not be easy; but if we all step back and pursue common goals, we will succeed. In the Desus Group, we will unanimously support Marjana Sarca as President of the Thirteenth Slovenian Government. Mr. Marjan Sarec, good luck to you!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u17	The Member Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have the floor, in its name Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u18	Before the elections I went to Slovenia, I was in Gorenjska, where someone told me – you will not get one percent of the votes. I met this man again days ago, and I said, "Well, we came to Parliament; but he said, "We will stop you otherwise." How? Are we going to turn around and watch who's following us? Will we be careful who we're talking to? Will we be careful where we walk, how we walk? Will this be the way this government has worked, as it has been to a large extent, the way the government has worked so far? The abuse of the police, the abuse of investigative bodies, intelligence services, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the judiciary; it may appear that this will become a modus operandi if it has not already become one. Even now, Prime Minister Cerar, who, as part of the executive power, will vote for himself as part of the legislative authority, has brought an action against Croatia, which is still secret and hidden, at his own hands and without powers in this interim period; except in Croatia. He signs the Marrakesh Charter by which, I don't know what, all foreigners will have the right to enter Slovenia because it will be an act of the United Nations; without anyone giving him a mandate, we will not discuss this in the National Assembly. Meanwhile, our children are dying, but we're going to buy 179 thousand toothbrushes, and I don't know how many thousands of ladies' pads, and a thousand 200 beds, all in preparation for this Marrakesh thing, which will be signed in Morocco in December, can be implemented. That's terrible! And that's what a man who doesn't have a mandate anymore does. What's going to happen? What we can think about is how it will happen, because this gentleman is likely to be an external minister in the future government. We will be accommodated by tourists from Africa who will be allowed to do so. And our citizens — what? Will we have to quietly arm ourselves so that we can defend our lives, our own possessions, and our own? We who think otherwise, of course we mean for the benefit of the country, but listen to us, follow us, control us, set traps, make records, control e-mails and phones; not just me and some. Not to think about it, even here on your left, even though you're in a coalition, that's what they do. We will act on the Code of Members. And what is the Codex of Members? The Code is solely determined by the electorate who chooses to be the Member they wish to have in the National Assembly. Will we now use the code to train Members to speak or not to speak?Oh, my God! It seems that according to the example of the Kumrov schools, some of which are very well - known. Meanwhile, the state is sinking. The promises we make are beautiful, but I wonder how much they will be implemented. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the mandate-holder, but we know he will be elected because he must be elected. The deal is a deal, and the word has to be kept, it's right to stick to the word, on all sides. This is how the government will be created without our votes, but if there is anything good for the country and for my country for some of you here, we will support it; of course we will, although I doubt that there will be much of it. I wish Mr. Sharpe great success, especially nerves, because he'll need them! Creatures will be on the agenda and it won't be easy. In a year or two, I'll see you in a new election.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u19	The word shall be given by the Group of Italian and Hungarian National Communities, on its behalf Felice Žiža.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u20	Dear President of the National Assembly, I would like to ask that you do not allow the use of any of us Members' hate speech to be used, or an invitation to armed citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u21	Mr. Felice Gizza, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u22	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished candidate for Prime Minister Mr. Marjan Sarec! Egregio presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password, Egregi deputates, egregio candidato alla presidenza del Governo Sig. Marjan Sarec! In opening, I would like to point out that the Italian and Hungarian National Community Group cannot be an integral part of the coalition because of its mission, which is also true. Cooperation with the Government is, of course, desirable and necessary to ensure and realize the protection of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and their members in the Republic of Slovenia. When appointing a mandate-holder, it is important whether the candidate is clearly entrusted with the electorate and the electorate; whether his approach to resolving the pressing systemic and substantive issues of the State and society is properly addressed, in particular in terms of the rule of law, democracy, social sensitivity, economic efficiency and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. For the Group of Italian and Hungarian National Communities, its approach to the conservation and development of the protection of indigenous communities and its willingness to address current issues in this area is particularly important. With the Member of the Hungarian National Community, colleagues Ference Horvath assess that, in the case of Mr Marjan Sarc's proposal for a mandate holder, these conditions are largely met. This means that the candidate for the proposed Prime Minister of the Government will today receive our support. We therefore expect the mandate holder to provide guidance on the possible new government coalition on the implementation of the protection of the rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities. These substantive issues are therefore to be adequately designed and incorporated into the Partnership Agreement. Our most important condition for supporting all the mandate holders and later for the government is that the mandate holder and later the government take into account the important requirements of indigenous national communities based on the provisions of the Constitution, the independent acts, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the generally applicable principles of international law, the officially ratified international treaties on the protection of indigenous national minorities and minority languages and the laws on the protection of indigenous national communities. We stress the importance of maintaining the national and cultural identity of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and the specificity of the national mixed area. It is therefore essential that the level of situation and specific rights of indigenous communities so far be the basis for their further development. The creation of an economic framework for indigenous national communities is therefore important for the existence and development of these communities, as well as for the development of the municipalities and regions in which our communities live; and also for cross-border cooperation. For the indigenous national community, it is also very important to upgrade the bilingual operation of the state and municipal administrations, the judiciary and the other public sector, the holders of public powers and other persons of public law in the areas of the municipalities in which the said national communities live. It is fundamental to ensure adequate conditions for stable and development-oriented operation and autonomy of the institutions of indigenous national communities, which also implement national programmes in the fields of education, education, culture, information, science, economy and other important areas for indigenous national communities. This creates appropriate conditions for the implementation of policies relating to the Italian and Hungarian national communities with a view to ensuring the appropriate social and economic situation of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in Slovenia. In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, we expect the future government to prepare an upgrade to the legislation on the protection of indigenous communities, regional system policies, adequate funding and supervision of the implementation of these laws and policies. In all areas of the implementation of constitutional and legal provisions on the protection of indigenous communities, we find a significant gap between regulatory regulation and the implementation of provisions in practice. The supervisory mechanisms of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages also bear witness, as have past governments. It is therefore necessary to continue more intensively with measures to address this gap. It is very important that the future coalition commits itself to the real realization of the protection of indigenous national communities and their members. Once again, we stress the expectation of the upgrading of all necessary laws on the protection of indigenous national communities and the consistent exercise of bilingualism in public administration, justice, public service providers and holders of public powers exercising the rights and obligations or legal benefits of indigenous national communities; the preparation of a comprehensive list and the registration of the cultural and natural heritage of indigenous national communities; the establishment of an effective system of economic fundamentals of national communities; and adequate systemic budgetary financing of both indigenous national communities with special care for education and education, media, cultural, economic and other systems of national communities, including human resources. On the basis of what we have said with Mr Ference Horvath, we will support the candidate for the term of office of Mr Marjan Sarc. From here on out, we have hard and responsible work and constructive cooperation. The Italian and Hungarian national communities will be able to contribute to a better common future for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u23	The text is addressed to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, on its behalf, Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u24	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have a vote ahead of us on Commissioner Marjan Šarc. The coalition of six parties, none of which won the elections, including Levica, agreed to support the defeat of the election for the term. The legitimacy of such a mandate and rule will be low. We have no experience with six parties in power, and the past mandate shows that it may already be problematic to rule three parties; the core of the government coalition is the parties who broke the coalition in March this year and caused the government to fall. Assembling a government past the winner of the election increases apathy among voters and lowers confidence in democracy, a change in the electoral system will be necessary in the future. Economists have repeatedly said that they want a stable government with a clear agenda. They believe that an effective government is needed at this point in time, with the prospect of cooling down economic growth in the European Union, which calls for a restrictive public financial approach. The President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia said that it was difficult to imagine that the government of five parties with external support could quickly make good decisions for the benefit of all citizens. Analysts and political commentators estimate that the minority government is possible; but not necessarily stable. The warnings are mainly in the direction of a large number of parties and the lack of experience of the potential mandate holder, LMŠ champion Marjan Šarc. The comparison of economic indicators for Portugal for the period from 2015 onwards, when the so-called project government was formed, also shows that it has been the worst cut off in achieving the European Union average of development since 2015 because it has not made any progress. In other indicators, it has made progress around the average of the European Union, which shows that the so-called project government does not provide any guarantee of success; rather, vice versa. In coalition commitments, the coalition six predicts an increase in spending, leading to a similar mistreatment as in 2009 under the left government when GDP fell by 9%. At the same time, the government increased spending by almost that much and created a large public financial gap, which in a few years increased our public debt from 8 billion to 30 billion. When Miro Cerar resigned in March, he said of his coalition partners: “I gave up after reflection because I wanted to show that I did not go into a policy of evicting and throwing pollen under my feet.” And also: “The old forces do not allow us to work for future generations, they are only interested in personal benefit.” We can ask ourselves how Miro Cerar in the new government will again sit with Erjavac and the Jew, how they will be able to arrange something, but if Cerar has repeatedly stressed the last half-year – Metals have been caught under our feet. Even with Desus and SD, critics at the expense of Mir Cerar have never been copied. Erjavec said that the mandate of Cerar was not the most successful in the political sense. He says there's been a lack of experience in new faces. By the end of April, however, Dejan had said that he wanted the government of Mira Cerar to do much more. He also said that “we are putting some burdens on the future government, and I am most concerned about the health situation”. The latter, in his view, is needlessly in worse shape than four years ago, which will have to be dealt with urgently in the future government. In an interview with Youth in April, Cerar said: “I will strive for an alliance with those parties who really care about Slovenia as a whole. Here I see the problem with Desus, because even his representatives say too often that they only have pensions in their first or exclusive place." Cerar also explained the difficulty of dealing with two partners, such as SD and Desus. “In the field of health, cooperation has often been a front for cooperation. Desus has always been on duty here, so that he could put pollen under our feet, that was neither the end nor the end of the theft.” During the pre-election period, Marjan Sarec was also quite critical of the ruling SMC, SD and Desus coalition; now he is starting to cooperate with the very players he has criticised so much. On 2 May, Sarec, in a conversation for Planet TV, replied to the question of whom he would like to invite to the government: “Desus is not in the first place, it is time for a new generation.” The time for a new generation was also the title of the election program of the List of Marjan Šarca, with which Marjan Sarec convinced the electorate and the electorate. “They were in many positions, they had the opportunity, but they did nothing or very little,” Sarec said at the program congress of the List of Marjan Šarc on 14 April. “They created bank holes, built expensive projects, provided credits with beautiful eyes, wrote legislation that allows for play in all areas, brought the country almost to its knees,” said Sarec about SD, Desus and SMC. It's about these parties he's now joining the coalition with. Asked whether he preferred to see Desus or NSI in the LMŠ coalition, he answered clearly: “Vendarle prefers NSI. In the coalition, I would like mainly to see parties who would not be prisoners of their leaders.” So how will Sarec work with Desus?Oh, my God! Karl Erjavec also did not copy the critics of Sarc, who had already made a clear statement before the elections with the following statement: “We have had a lot of experience with new faces in recent years. If this happens, if the voters decide to do so, then we will have another bitter experience, because it usually takes new faces quite a while to learn how the country works. I would very much warn here that running a congregation is not the same as running a country. The cup has no program, it is empty nothing.” What about Alenka Bratušek, who has already tested herself as Prime Minister of the Government? From the beginning, the brother negotiated a coalition with Charc, but in her letter of 5 August, she wrote: “We have important challenges that need a strong political majority. Will the coalition six government be solid? Who really believes that? At the resignation of Prime Minister Mir Cerar, Alenka Bratušek was critical. She said: “SMC first, Slovenia second”. She was also critical of Karl Erjavac, whom she said since Karel Erjavec was in government, the pensioners have fallen in real terms; someone who has been guilty for 20 years cannot save the pensioners. In her book, and in her biography, she even wrote: “Erjavec has not proved to be either foreign minister or coalition partner.” In the same book, she admitted that she may have made a mistake when she did not send Erjavac as the European Commissioner, because that would get rid of the great political populism who makes the most of it and struggles for the pensioners. “Always get yourself a position that has nothing to do with pensioners; but he has a car and a driver,” she wrote in her book. So how will Alenka Bratusek cooperate with Erjavec in the future coalition? “Our party will make its own decision to join the government, we will not allow ourselves to be decided by others.” What "other" did Alenka Bratušek mean? What about the Left? On August 6th, Levi said: “We intend to support the charca, but we warn coalition partners not at any cost.” A month earlier, after consultations with the President of the Republic, Matthew Tashner said that "Left still does not see the possibility to support Sarc". After the election of the President of the National Assembly, Matthew Tashner said this: “The election of the President of the National Assembly is not a temporary matter, something that is done just like that; it is a strong indicator of what the future coalition will be.” “We went to talk honestly, but obviously on the other side of this honesty there was no,” he said. What prompted their change of attitude, and they repeatedly swore in Levica that the commitments they made to the electorate would not be broken. On 24 March, Luka Mesec said: “We have the necessary experience and knowledge that in the next term we are also trying to fight more than just the opposition stock.” Now they are convincing themselves that they are in opposition, yet they are in coalition with the List of Marjan Sarcas. Understand who can. The coalition will therefore form a government with the support of the Left and, in return, some projects, which are part of the election programme of the Left, should also be implemented together. But do we even know what electoral projects Levika had planned to take part in? What is the question paid by taxpayers, economists, and approved by the List of Marjan Šarc?Oh, my God! In particular, so far we have not heard anything, nor in the candidate's opening remarks. And a few more words about exclusion. On 15 June, Mr Pavlič, Secretary-General of the Party, Alenka Bratušek, said that the conversation was important because otherwise you went to the wrong industry, because politics is a matter of agreements and discussions with everyone. The LMŠ ruled out talks with the Slovenian Democratic Party. So did the LMSH go into the wrong business? He also repeatedly said: “We are ready for a broader cooperation, because we are aware that we are part of a relatively small nation. At the same time, he strongly opposed cooperation and talks with the Slovenian Democratic Party. The same is true in the Modern Centre Party, the same in the Alenka Bratušek Party as in Desus, which formed the left block, strongly opposed to the agreement and cooperation. Let me remind you, Matjaž Han said on April 6th: "You haven't shown anything yet, we don't have your program, you're actually only Marjan Sarec from Kamnik. For six years I too have been the head of the congregation, and I cannot yet be the Prime Minister of the Government.” In view of everything, we can all rightly ask ourselves how long this government will last; or we will soon hear again the sentence that Dr Bojan Dobovšek said at the resignation of Prime Minister Mir Cerar: “The events have shown that the government does not rule and that it has succumbed to the pressure from the background.” We will not support the candidate in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u25	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal by the Group of Members that the National Assembly for President of the Government elects Marjan Sarc, I am opening a debate on MEPs and Members. The word is by Ambassador Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u26	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Today we are being followed by Slovenia because it is waiting for what will happen. Are we going to get an operating government? I must say, first of all, congratulations to the candidate for the term of office, Mr. Marjan Sarc, for his courage! For every slightly more demanding job, we need or call for work experience; and Mr Marjan Sarec is prepared to accept the work of the Prime Minister, who is extremely demanding, responsible; even minority governments, governments of five parties plus supplement. You must have the courage to do that. But I don't attribute failure to him in advance, because that wouldn't be fair. But each one must be given the opportunity to prove himself; and time will always reveal what someone has done, how he has proved himself; and that time will probably come here soon. Why do I have personal and New Slovenia's doubts about the success of this government? Since there were three parties in this government who had been in the government so far, they had a strong majority, but we have seen that they failed. Not only did they fight and fight, but they failed to solve the acute problems in Slovenia. How can I believe that customers — who have been leading health care for a number of years — will make the situation worse — suddenly save everything?Oh, my God! I hope so. For the greatest harm will be to humans, for many are already dying because of too long of waiting days or failed treatment, lack of personnel and the like. However, I must point out that the composition of this government was not easy, difficult-permissive mathematics, because we entered a blind street in politics in Slovenia. We sell what is well-bought to politicians, while at the same time teaching politicians something that eventually comes back as a vicious circle. It is important for me in politics that someone, who has taken responsibility, works for the common good, and this honestly, responsiblely, has solutions and works in a coherent way, think of the common good. We have abandoned many criteria, honesty is no longer important, various lawsuits, convictions, proven things are not important. It's important whether it's ours or yours, but it's left or right. This has become the criteria on both sides, and I'm not going to say that anyone is better or worse, I'm afraid. Personally, she would be willing to go to the government, where everything is agreed in principle, and then she would find solutions and then she would stick to it 100 percent. Unfortunately, even because of past experience, Nova Slovenija did not believe that the words given would be fulfilled, the promises given would also be fulfilled. And there are other things that keep us from doing it. This scares some with a red star, others with urbanization, third with migrants, and so on. These are the wrong criteria, the wrong signals we give people. Politics must primarily solve people's problems, create an environment in which people can make the best, best and most successful work, even earn and, of course, sustain themselves and their families. This requires good and appropriate laws. And here, again, I have my doubts, because what the candidate for a mandate holder has said, his principled views, I must say that I agree with almost most of them. But when it comes to realisation, I strongly doubt that this will be fulfilled as foretold. I have experienced this too many times when Nova Slovenija proposed concrete solutions, laws even confirmed by the government coalition that "they are necessary, but we will not support them". Now I hear how Desus advocates that those pensioners who want to do so can continue to work without their pensions being taken away from them. We have proposed this several times to the National Assembly, which has always been rejected for such or other reasons. And how can I believe that we will really adopt such laws as to support the economy if he says that the Left is to correct this government?Oh, my God! I fear that the burden, not the correctional one, will insert a wheel between wheels when the solution is one that we would actually support. It is easy to share when we have economic growth when money flows into the state treasury. Unfortunately, I was part of the government when we had to primarily reduce the cost of the country, but we all know that there are crises for growth. It's always repeated, it's always a cycle, and it's already predicted, if we're going to share too much, we're going to spend too much, we're going to get back into the situation soon when we have to cut hard. That's why this division is supposed to be smart where it's needed. I hope that there will also be more money for the culture, because we also feel very sad about the cultural heritage monuments, and the living conditions of some established cultures are in very sad condition. The culture that shaped us as a nation should receive more words and, of course, more money. Not to mention agriculture; we are all aware that weather changes, droughts, floods, and the situation in agriculture are becoming increasingly difficult. However, to live off crops so that the world can soon fail and there is already a crisis, a food and water crisis, we should support agriculture so that we do not lose those farmers we still have. Not only will there be even less domestic food in Slovenia, but the landscape will be very different. Let me finish. Of course, I will not support Mr Sharpe's candidate for term of office, as this is not usually the case for a party who decides to oppose the opposition to support the mandate. As before, I will always support those solutions and those laws that are for the good of the people, the good of the citizens. My principled position is that everything needs to be well supported and, of course, to be against what is harmful, which is not a good solution, which is not a fair solution; and that is what I will strive for in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u27	Member Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. My colleagues and colleagues, once again a very nice greeting! However, I think that it would point to some points to draw attention to certain things and to remind individuals of what has happened in the past in this Chamber. To begin with, I would like to point out that, nevertheless, the views that say that the government that expires this time has been very unstable; we cannot and cannot say that. This government, however, ensured stability in Slovenia and under this government later actually strengthened the economy and all other social spheres. Since there have also been a lot of conflicts within the coalition, I can tell you with certainty, because I was also part of the fact that there were no special arguments within the coalition. It is true, however, that when the programmes are implemented, everyone wants and in particular wants as many of his programme to be realized as possible, and at times at these points there have also been some picrettes of words. But we did not go apart, nor should we talk to one another, nor should we treat one another with respect. We have come to the elections, we have just received as many votes as the voters have given us, and it has always happened that more or less one party is a relative winner. We also had a relative winner this time, and all the other parties received percentages that we all know more or less well. Several percent were received by left-handed parties, fewer votes received by centre-right parties. The relative winner was on the right and the President of the Republic also interviewed the president of the relative winner and offered him the opportunity to form a government. What was the decision of the relative winner, and we all know the President, and I would not like to develop this in particular. But it is true that the formation of this government was not easy. This government will be made up of five parties plus one and these programmes that these customers have, I will say again, everyone has their priorities and priorities also have a party and a parliamentary group that I represent. [[…]] What someone said and why he said that the client Desus in the past had done nothing for the pensioners, he himself knows it; he who said it. I once said on the occasion of the parable that it is very interesting to fish where there are a large number of fish in the lake, and of course the pensioners are a large number and of course around them is concerned. They also go to elections and it is logical that pensioners belong to all political parties. By no means do we attribute to ourselves that they are our own. But we represent the interests of this population, and we will continue to do so in the future. This coalition, in order to successfully lead Slovenia, also needs the support of another opposition party in view of the minority government. The first opportunity was given to the client on the right, and she didn't make the decision. I knew in advance that you wouldn't make up your mind, because something like this happened four years ago. Every excuse you found was just an excuse, and that's your decision, and I won't interfere with your decision. However, I wanted to point out that this opportunity was given and that Mr Marjan Sarec actually wanted to have a central government. Now what happened happened. We will make every effort to ensure that this government works successfully for as long as possible and that we will also see it through the four-year term. I am aware that this rule of power will be arduous, but still, we have such governments in Europe to encourage. And in one third of the cases, these governments actually rule successfully. What has been the result in the past, for example, the talk was about the Portuguese government – no crisis is easy, and if such stable governments are still, they are not easy and, of course, this minority government in Portugal has not been. But they have proven that they are able to endure, and we will try to prove it or we will prove it in Slovenia. You know, I'm going to say just our way of saying, "Shimping old faces," but at the same time, say that young faces and new faces have no experience, and that we don't know if we would give them the opportunity to lead the Old Smurfs, talk about them the worst, and in the new ones, we doubt that we can lead successfully -- who are we actually going to have now? [[…]] Or old or new or something in the middle? I don't know. I just don't know how to explain anymore. You know what? In politics, the art of accepting compromises is. Although colleague Daniel Krivec spoke about these matters, which ran within the presidents of the parties who form this new coalition – yes, but to go on, to accept the compromise and to act successfully in the interests of this country, that is a key issue. Some will have to learn that. And I'm not going to quote my esteemed colleague, Ludmila Novak. I think I've already said it with reference. Work and pensions – yes, so far it has not matured, at a time when there is also a shortage of labour in Slovenia, and I think it is right to allow those who are willing, ready and healthy to work and pay all the obligations of this country in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u29	Member Dusan Shisko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague, fellow Members, distinguished candidate for President or for a term of office! Let me just say right away, Mr. Candidate, that I will not support your candidacy. Not because of you, because I myself have worked in the municipal council for many years and I know the work of the municipal administration and the local community and the mayor. That is why I think that your experience from local politics could be useful, especially for us who come from the outskirts of the country, from Krk, from Posavje. My no or my abstention, I'll make up my mind about it, it won't be because it's going to be a left-wing or left-centre government. I will not support you because the majority of the new government will consist of parties and, above all, people who have had the opportunity for the last four years to show what they are saying have been very disappointing. First and foremost, the Prime Minister himself was Mr Cerar, from whom people expected so much, not because of him and his promises of the rule of law and necessity – he came to us several times at the beginning of his term in Krk, also to the churches – but because of the trust of his father, who is a great athlete and a very large person. On the one hand, Mr. Cerar complained that he did not rule alone, and on the other hand he did nothing to cut off the foolishness that had taken place; and at the cost of his position. I am sure that in the future no one will get as much confidence between the Slovenians as much support as Mr Cerar has received and will also be in the new government. If I just give you two cases. Mr Cerar, despite countless problems and irregularities, had already supported the Minister of Health, who had been promising solutions from month to month, and in fact cared for her better appearance, while people were dying and dying because of the long waiting lines. The solutions they now announce show that they will throw money into a bottomless pit and no one will answer for those millions who have gone into the pockets of individuals. To mention, Mr Erjavec will also sit in the government, under which there has been an eavesdropper affair. People of God, other ministers would have stepped down by now, and the culprits would have been arrested. We don't have anything. This is for people of high treason, which will have long-term consequences for the Slovenian state and nation. And we act like it's nothing special, like we're kids in a sandbox. All honour to the commissions, although colleagues are not in the hall, Dr Logar and Mrs Godec; we have not seen what they have done in Slovenia. But it's amazing how nothing happens, how nothing moves. Looks like we've been kidnapped. Because of this, Mr Sarec, because there will be a number of ministers in your government who have already had their chance, we cannot support your election. If I am wrong and you are able to do better and you will have good solutions, I will confirm your proposals and laws without problem, but first there will be evidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u31	Member Ferenc Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Have a good day! Shep her apot mint mints! Dear colleagues and colleagues, respectable Mr. Sarec! Mr Žiža has already presented the position of our Group, which, of course, I fully agree with, but I would still say certain things in the light of your presentation. I think you've presented things very well and quite correctly. As has been said, in this short period of time you have failed to present a solution to those problems that you have cited very well, but I believe that you have solutions for them. Of course, you did not specifically point out the situation of indigenous national communities in Slovenia, but based on the conversation we had together, I am sure that this will be one of those topics that will be important to you as Prime Minister in the future, and I am sure that we will be able to make a lot of common in this area in a good way. I must point out that the previous government in this area has taken several steps forward, particularly in the field of the economy, and I would like this positive direction to continue in this mandate that we will have. I fully agree with you that legislation in a wide range of areas is very lifeless. I think that this is one of the basic principles, or one of the basic issues that we must address together, because this legislation concerns not only representatives of the Hungarian and Italian national communities, but all citizens of Slovenia. I also see my work in the National Assembly as a representative of all citizens in the national mixed area, not only representatives of the Hungarian national community. Above all, I am pleased that you have highlighted the problem of young people being displaced because I think that this issue for ethnically mixed areas or for one of the most underdeveloped areas we have in Prekmurje is very important and even more pressing than perhaps elsewhere in Slovenia. That is why I am particularly convinced that legislation needs to be amended in this area for more coherent regional development, because I believe that certain, particularly the north-eastern parts of Slovenia are much more economically undeveloped, and this also results in social threats compared to other parts of Slovenia. You've exposed the firefighters. I would add here some other companies that work voluntarily and do a lot of work, and I am sure that legislation in this area also needs to be amended accordingly. As Mr. Žiža said, we will support today's candidacy. I am sure that we can do a great deal of good together for the benefit of both indigenous national communities, so I wish you a lot of success in this work. If we work for the common good, then you can count on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u33	The text is by Ambassador Lidija Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues, especially from my Mariborians! Math is a very exact thing, that's what my husband always says. Two plus two is just four and 90 Members are divided as they are divided, whether someone likes it or not. In fact, the new Members do not understand why we should always oppose something in this Slovenia, share, label, be negative and all that we have witnessed in the last two months. However, we are here because we want to do something good for us and our people; I especially for Maribor and my Mariborians. Therefore, there is no need for constant adjustment, tweeting, and all that we read when we read. Therefore, respectable, hard work, honest work, a positive attitude towards people, cultural communication and a respectful attitude towards all of us, including our fellow workers, are qualities that honor Mr Šarc. I'm sure it'll be very dynamic, it'll be varied and it'll be very hard to rule. It won't be easy, we all know that, probably – and I'm sure – he knows the most. However, where there is will, there is the way of a book written by my deaf friend Roy Goreya, and the way is right, so I will support Mr Charcoe and ask you to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u35	Member Gregor Perič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, dear political companions and companions! Today we are ahead of one of the most crucial and important votes in this mandate, and I believe that we are all aware of these responsibilities. We were also aware of it in the previous days and weeks when we brought this process to today's point. At the same time, we are also aware that this time that has led us to this moment has not been easy and it has not been simple that the political situation is not simple, that the geometry that we are dealing with at this moment is complicated. That is why the solution we have sought is not the most common, it is not the simplest, and it will take a lot of energy, a lot of time, a lot of effort to take important steps forward. In the SMC, we were thus in the electoral campaign – and today it is no different – defending a government that is stable, free-thinking and developmental. We believe that in the past four years or in an expired term, we have shown that there is much that can be done if we participate — within the coalition and beyond. That is why I am sometimes dissatisfied, sometimes angry, because despite these divisions left, right, middle and something else we do not unify, at least for those points that are most crucial and important for our country and exceed these daily political frameworks of various divisions. The stability, which we have disputed in particular in the past period, within the political space, today, as we are listening to this debate, is proving to be one of those key elements that the government is also clear that it does not have. We know stability in politics and note that it is very important because it is not only related to political aspects, but also linked to the economy itself, both within Slovenia and the wider region where we operate or globally. After all, stability is also important for us to be known and treated within the European Union and other integrations as an equal and respected partner, which we can say has been gained again in Slovenia's reputation and credibility within these fields over the past period. As it is said, Slovenia has become a credible partner again in the last four years and has some capital, both inside and outside, which is very important in the international field. Above all, it is important that unemployment has been reduced during this period, that economic growth is one we can only be satisfied with. Economic growth means increasing consumption, increasing consumption means more tax collection and more tax collection means more investment in company subsystems. And here we come to the key points, as well as the challenges of the government in running out, and in particular the government, which we will today, I believe, form or at least give the mandate to the mandate-holder. As we have heard many times today, it is very important for us to be safe, it is important for us to be social, it is also infrastructure and there are important economic challenges. In all of this, the government that runs out of mandate has put in place – and all the others who will follow it will have to invest — enormous will, energy and time to move. The government that runs out of mandate has some very important points or achievements if I expose only Magno and Yaskawo in the field of economy and many others who may have been completely ignored or sometimes deliberately ignored in the media. Dr Cerar's outgoing government is handing over the baton to a future mandate-holder in an inappropriately better condition than she's been given. Some may admit it more, some less, but numbers are numbers and speak for themselves. Thank God we are no longer threatened by threesomes, international speculators with government bonds, financial collapses and other things we do not want in our dreams anymore. In the Modern Centre Party, we are pleased that, in this mandate, it will be possible to reap the fruits of the work invested in many important projects for Slovenia, such as the second track, such as the third development axis, such as the expansion of the pre-shipment capacity of the port of Cyprus and could still be listed. We also expect all good, quality projects to be given adequate attention in the SMC, because it is only in this way that it will be possible to develop them in a sustainable and long-term manner and to strengthen all other areas that we find that we still have a lot of work to do, to optimize them and to do them even more to the extent of our citizens and citizens. We also hear about dilemmas, new faces, old faces, this is probably a difficult dilemma within our political space, but I will offer one solution in thought. The younger faces with the necessary experience have proved to be a reliable solution, one that brings results. And if I go back for a moment to the question of the political situation at this point, we already have such an experience when the relative winner sat in the opposition, and not long ago, about six years ago it happened that way, so that there is no disaster or refugee within Europe or beyond. It is also a surprise to me that in certain speeches we hear about some of the interpretations of almost the current government, which, according to the experience of those who say the word, is not a common practice or is quite strange. The future government will not have a simple job to do, and I would like, above all, a great deal of wisdom, a great deal of courage and patience, and a great deal of political intuition to the candidate for the mandate of Mr Sharpe. Let me finish with the words: good luck, Slovenia! Because we're gonna need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u37	Member Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u38	Good afternoon! Mr. Sharpe, this time it won't be easy. And I wish you well — but I am a skeptic. Content first. From the title of your speech, we have been able to hear a correct description of what is needed in the field of health care, what is needed in the area of economy, what is the cooperation with Croatia, what must be done there, how to ensure safety. You have correctly described that problems will have to be faced, and we have not heard from you the key solutions to these problems. At least five key solutions, one for health, one for the economy, would be needed from the candidate for a mandate. That's why I'm a little disappointed after your opening remarks. However, I believe it is difficult to coordinate all the content in this not wild flower, but the crazy flower of future coalition partners and that it is very difficult for you to speak here as well. But at least a little more solutions to the challenges ahead of Slovenia would be expected on your opening day. In your speech you also said: “Stability is conditioned by people who have functions in the government.” If we count on the thumb of future ministers and what is said about them, almost one third of ministers will be the same as they were in the previous government. So, you expect stability and a hand of stability from the same people that Miro Cerar said were the bar and the obstacle at work. I must congratulate you on your courage or, unfortunately, for your naivety. But it's hard to expect a hand of stability from people who have flown apart like these. Today, they are walking the corridors past you and they are blinking you when there is a staff cut in the field of economics, and you will feel the right policy, which has a very sharp edge of the knife. Look at her now! There is nothing more than sitting on the driver’s seat of an old car, and the steering wheel still has in its hands — like the last ten years with a one-year break — the SD client — you have a hand brake, the Levico, and a larger number of passengers than it has been in this car driven by Miro Cerar. Even though I really wish you good things, because if you do well for the government, if you do well, it means that our citizens will do well, that the economy will do well, that we will manage the health situation. I repeat, I'm a great skeptic. And don't look for the opposition on this side, at least as far as New Slovenia is concerned. As in the past, which will be good proposals, Mr Sarec, we will support them. Believe what good suggestions will be when your coalition partner Levica refuses to support you, and if there is a good proposal, we will support New Slovenia; look for the opposition there first. And the first things you're going to do in the government, do you know who's going to comment on them as critics? Your future president of Parliament. This shows experience that this will be the case. And experience with these political parties, cooperation with these political parties dictates one fact – that cooperation is very difficult, despite good intentions. This was the main reason that Nova Slovenija did not participate in this story. Because this deadline for stability is not genuine. This is confirmed not only through the last term but also through past mandates – the parties that led to the three early elections are the same. And the second reason that Nova Slovenija cannot participate in this association is that if the ruling coalition were to participate in it, certain left ideologically, perhaps even bring controversial topics to the agenda of the National Assembly and accept them with the help of the Left, beyond the agreed coalition. So, there are two things: mistrust has fueled this and this wild flower, the crazy flower that is indicated when the new government is elected. All good!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u39	The text is by the Member of the Commission. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Note below the line first. I'm listening to a colleague in front of me, and a man would think that Nova Slovenije wants a car without brakes. Cars like that don't go through a technical checkup, young fellow, if you don't know. Now let's face it for a moment. Yesterday I was still sitting under the tent – and in this mandate I will not do any stupider than I did – I read the book What We Are Condemned, Kari Hotakainen, a modern Finnish classic. On page 39, it writes: “Man’s Maturity slowly.” If I hope to take so much freedom metaphorically now, this beloved chicken, this 27-year-old lady, is dawning too slowly if I put it that way. Dawn is too slow because all of you, who wanted to become politicians from the old politics, are the most deserving of it. In fact, politics happened more to me because of Mr Bogovic, who wanted to stay in Brussels, and I turned to Parliament among the four and then I happened to politics. It's a minority government story. There's been a lot of talk, and there's been a lot of deception. And, colleague Tonin, please, you're a political scientist, a political master, at least you should know what a minority government is, but you act like you don't know. Why is the minority government good? Minority governments are – and I also have to give a little criticism to me by the ladies of law and law, to refer to some text by Igor Luksic of 1990 from the Czech Republic 30 years ago, and since then there has been a lot of writing about minority governments – especially because they dederegulate the National Assembly or Parliament. Let me translate this so that you will all understand: Parliament is once again given the role of the legislative body. In these four years, which I have been in politics, ministers have been very reluctant to go to Parliament. Even the secretaries of state often did not agree to answer our parliamentary questions, in particular the opposition's parliamentary questions. Often the SMCs, which were more than a third of Parliament, did not have one on the committee who could explain what was going on. And in societies where the tradition of the minority governments of Denmark is such a society, since 1901 most of the time – colleague Pojbič, indeed, you can go Google – had minority governments. [[…]] And to cheer right-wing people up a little bit, Denmark doesn't have a problem with fertility, even demographics because of the seriousness of minority governments. Second story. You talk a lot about governance up and down here. Somehow it has been forgotten that because you are too in love with some obviously in this “get to the trough” – and I do not think of Mariana here – we call this branch of power enforceable. In short, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia executes what the National Assembly accepts, the temple of democracy of the Republic of Slovenia. I think we're gonna have to run a circle back here, too. Some of this story – I must mention another footnote under the line – which Mr Tonin started, whether the Left is an opposition or a coalition or not. You betrayed yourself, Comrade Tonin, it's Knovs. For four years Grimes abused Knovs. NSI also voted in the Janie Commission to deceive him into being inappropriate. Do you want to continue to abuse for four years? And we know very well what our security and intelligence system is like: it needs more money, it needs to cover the generation gap and more. You know, once we had this lame-ass arbitration, I just went to look at the budget lines, Slovenian, Croatian, ha ha ha, about these services, and I don't mystify them. Good morning! Let's move on. After some self-reflection of my four-year-old work in the National Assembly, I decided not to be clowns anymore. I've known too many times as the right-hand man has done with us, most of the bad guys I've learned from Janša's team, I have to admit. I absolutely agree that we need a new, different policy that we need a different political culture, but, you know, you can do that with cultural people. If we look at what has happened in the last few weeks, especially the former Prime Minister and Prime Minister on the move – as Mrs Alenka Bratušek said! And one would think that Alenka Bratusek or hers, Janša would say, is a client of at least 20 cities. And how much she was running into Levico – I am glad that you are afraid of us as new forces. Alenka Bratušek achieved a good half of the left-wing mandates, 54.7%. Miro Cerar. Miro Cerar is still acting, I don't know if he has at least 33 seats. And I have nothing against them personally, but that clearly shows that everyone is not for everyone. And here's the problem. And there's gonna be a problem with the ministerial team. It's going to be a big problem to find someone who's going to be a minister or a finance minister because we don't raise people like that because we don't do them because they don't grow up like I said before. I in Levica, also on the blog, probably represent some conservative wing, Marxist, because I talk most of the time about responsibility. But, you know, we're all responsible. All 90 of us, all 40 of us in the State Council, all ministers, ministers, secretaries of state, secretaries, chief inspectors and so on. Actually, we're four or five buses away. And we need to operate on names. Usually then the defenders of these previously mentioned attacks my aunts on the blog: “Yes, but this is rude, unacceptable.” Wait, specific people have done something! Also a lady with the same last name as me was at an inspectorate for work and has some butter on her head and should be called that and then named. Looking ahead, of course, in a twenty-minute speech, some candidate for a mandate holder cannot say everything. But do you know when it got stuck and why the Left isn't actually in the government? It's stuck when our audiences in the negotiations started talking about human resources issues, whether we're going to frame KPK, what's going to happen to SDH, what's going to happen to DUTB, how we're going to respect Slovenian railways, how we're not going to have different gentlemen pinching journalists for asses when they were drunk on the Planica with DRI and having wages twice as much as we have Members, by chance those of the SDS, maybe if we had thirty years of tradition, someone from the Left would be. Very soon we will have a test “electing the Governor or Governor of the Bank of Slovenia”. At that time, the ladies and gentlemen mentioned above were the most opposed to Levi, so we are not in the government, of course, because we are not going with a fig in the pocket of a story. Maybe one of our own will say something. I told my colleague Marjan earlier and congratulated him on his good speech. I said, just two things distract me a little bit, the worker and the work wasn't mentioned. The economy is of course important, but the economy comes from work, from the work of some concrete people. Second story, maybe you didn't say that you wouldn't be beaten, "what do you, the mayor, know what regional development and reform of local self-government are?" We have to actually bite into this for a quarter of a century. The new policy in Slovenia will come only when the end of what I call looting and pacifiers, Mrs Simona, who led the SMC Group quickly learned this, “from our quotas” feudalisation. Until we do, there will be no key move. I'll be supporting my colleague Charcoe for being honest with me. You're probably into this, like me, but with some other experience, you fell a little naive. Over the course of these two months, it has somehow turned out that they may not be as naive as their old thought policy. Of course, I would like Levi to have 13, 14 sent-off terms for you to have 17, 18; in a joke, I said that if you met me six months before the elections, you would have them, perhaps for another time, free advice. But that's the way it is. It's a force-absorbing thing, and that's the deal. I would like to conclude with a sentence with which Patrick Boucheron concludes his next lecture, what history can do in one of France's most elite intellectual institutions, which has almost 500 years of history. I quote: “What will occur, no one knows, but we all understand that in order to detect and accept this, we will have to be peaceful, diverse and overly free. And that is basically the essence of democracy, especially this right-hand part of it today, as if you already know everything in advance. It's like you're better than Maruca with the crystals and Danny with his stars and his cards. We don't know what's going to happen. I don't know when I'm stepping out of the National Assembly. Of course, it is the responsibility of all 90 of us. I will work towards a new and different policy, which Levica has been doing all the time, as far as I can, I will restrain myself in that clown part of politics, and for now I am some realistic optimist and I hope I will not give up. But this 27-year-old deserves a full third term at last, that's what I hope to say. It grieves me personally, of course, that the Left is not in the government. Why is that, I have said this, which, of course, does not reduce the liability of the Left or my personal responsibility as a politician. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u41	The word is by Ambassador Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, present at today's session! I have listened to the views of the parliamentary groups, and I can say that even the future Prime Minister may have three basic foundations that we have been stressing and convinced in New Slovenia, and also citizens, that they are very important for the future of Slovenia: freedom, security and justice You have touched on some of them, you have highlighted most of your health speech, but let me point out that it is very important for the good of the nation and justice, that we are all equal before the laws and rules that apply to everything the same, not as it has been, and that we have repeatedly, too, warned that there are double rules for two types of citizens, for those who can afford it, and for those who are not able to do so or who may otherwise be somehow religious or visually defined. [[…]] To say that a new generation is entering Slovenian politics, it seems to me that it has been such a vicious phrase that I have been listening to here alone for several years. Every term: a new generation, we young people will save Slovenia. I count myself in the middle generation, maybe six years ago, maybe even too many desires, and sometimes they take a man away, take him away. It is right — and I place it on your heart — to hear the man who lives somewhere on the edge. You promised that you would and that you would drive, that it was a matter of taking responsibility. This is what I remember most from your speech, "games to take responsibility". As the future prime minister, I sincerely wish you would know how to do this; even with your ministers. Because taking responsibility subjectively or objectively – this has not been the case in Slovenia in the last 25 years, not at the level of government officials at all. If you achieve this, you get one big hook; if you will know the people who have made mistakes – objectively or subjectively responsible – if these people will be able to step down from their functions. We have not yet seen this in Slovenia. I sincerely wish that under your guidance, as you said, people could take responsibility. There have been many words spoken, but it seems right for me to stress one more thing: what will you do, what is wrong, what is wrong? It's a very good summary, but where was the action plan here? The coalition contract has been mentioned, I've really been through all the online media these days, even in print, but there's no basis for what that coalition is, what it's all about. The only thing I figured out from this was who's going to be sitting anywhere. But whoever's gonna be sitting there in a week, in 14 days, in 3 weeks, when you put together your government team. [[…]] However, let me say, in this government, in your government, Mr Sarec, there will be people sitting on the political scene for the past 25 years, and perhaps it is time for a new generation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u43	The word has been sent by Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I hope, Mr Sarec, that you have read the magnetograms of this meeting from the previous term, as well as from the previous term of office, so that these forecasts of the short duration of this government do not worry you too much, as the story repeats itself at these meetings in each mandate. The previous governments had also announced one month and three months, and six months, and so on until the mandate had almost expired. Today I think it is certainly a great day for the National Assembly, especially a great day for you, Mr future mandate-holder, and also for the Government. Of course, given the fragmentation of this national assembly and the fragmentation of the future government, a great deal of political maturity and the ability to compromise will be required, especially the ability to put the interests of citizens and citizens and the interests of this country ahead of their own, which will be a political experience for some parties and something completely new and I hope to be positive for them. Above all, in putting other interests ahead of their own political interests, there will be a need for exceptional leadership, wisdom and coordination by the future mandate-holder. In such a case, I believe that such a government can do much. In the past mandate, the Modern Centre Party has demonstrated that it is also capable of such political wisdom. At a time when many have seen a lack of commitment to the Prime Minister's departure, this has shown that this is necessary because of the interests of citizens and citizens ahead of their own. It's easy to hit a table, but that's not always wise. Just reaching compromises may sometimes impress indecisiveness. In 2014, when we entered the SMC through the doors of the National Assembly and also took over the Government, the country was in a significantly poorer condition, in a significantly worse condition than today, which is good. We have good economic growth, and GDP growth is also forecast for next year. We have begun to unload labour costs, the profitability of state-owned companies has increased from 1.8% to over 6, we have an increase in foreign direct investment, which also directly affects the lives of citizens and citizens, because it brings jobs because it brings higher wages because it brings some competitiveness and quality of life in general, the growth of exports, just yesterday I read new articles on breaking all records in tourism, reduced unemployment, which was, if I am not mistaken, more than 120 000 in 2014, and today is below 88 000, especially among young people at that time. These are some of the results with which a government can boast, and we can hope that these trends will continue in the coming term. We can hope that the future government and future officials of this government will not have the sole objective of bringing down what has already been done, but of continuing where it is good. To sum up from my debate I had at this meeting in 2014, I said: "Because politics is not bad in itself, we are politicians in the service of the people who elected us. We really have to serve this people, and SMC knows it." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u45	Member Aljaž Kovačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I've been in sports myself for many years, and every time I went to a competition, I used to watch it before the game. Even all of us who went to these elections somehow knew the electoral system before the elections themselves, so it seems to me that after the elections we are now referring to the electoral system itself is somehow unfair. I am also defending myself, although it does not say anywhere that the relative winner of the election gets the first chance to form a government. In this case, too, the relative winner was given the opportunity to form a government. Why he failed, most likely he himself knows, but it is possible to ask himself; if no girl would like to have a drink with me, it is probably also in me that I have a problem, not just in all girls. Mr Sarec then accepted responsibility, which has proved to be so far, because, as we know, today is the vote on him. If it were not, there would be no vote. Somehow the most critical comes from New Slovenia, which kind of saddens me, because it is you who have advocated various cooperation or allowed cooperation with all in the election. Mr Šarec spoke to you first, and your President also said that you have somehow made a substantive agreement, but you allow the possibility or difficulty of the participation of these six parties, which somehow saddens me, because I think we could do something of our own. I see the highest advantage of the five-party government plus the Left in that power in Parliament is somehow evenly distributed, says everyone will have to contribute their share. It also saddens me that, in the end, Levica did not decide to join the government equally, but I am glad that after the first four years she took responsibility in Parliament and in such a different way decided to support the mandate holder and then to participate in the government as well. The policy that deliberately arouses fear among people is not close to me, so I am also a little disappointed over the last week in Parliament, when some words have been misused, from voting, ballots, even the time course of the session, which I have to say again, is a little sad; that we will not decide today on the decision or on the 35 million for health care, at least to the extent that it points out from the time-check. Also, I am not close to hate speech, misrepresentation of minorities, and all those who think otherwise. This is not very close to Mr Sharpe either, which is why I will support Mr Charcoe. But if I may at last read from Crime and the punishment of Dostoyevsky's verse: "The authority shall be given to him who is not hard to hide and to lift up." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u47	Member of the Parliament, Dr. Darius Krajčič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear fellows! The candidate for Prime Minister showed in his next speech a broad understanding of the issue to be faced, the issue of the functioning of the State, society, community and international space. He further showed his patience, endurance, and courage, as we have heard from other parliamentary groups, even from the opposition, in these two months of turmoil here after the National Assembly and beyond — even in Kamnik. It is characterized by openness. He also invited the opposition party to negotiate. It is characterized by high ethical principles, patriotism, on which opposition parties are also very much at stake. There's a lot of attention to security. As we know, the security of Maslow is one of the most basic values of man, and since it is one of the most basic human values, it is also the easiest to manipulate. If a person does not feel safe, feel fear, and when a person is afraid, he does things that are not always rational. I just wish in this country, in this national assembly, that there is no fear, but there is pure, genuine patriotism. Even coalition parties, we have heard from their speeches today, have been in this coalition so that most of their ideas, their principles, their election promises can be incorporated into the coalition treaty. The Mandattar is the one who can form the government, and at this point it is the one person in this national council. It could also be from the smallest customer, but it's from the second largest customer. The ability to form a government is not in itself meaningful, but only a person who is capable of doing so, who can bring into a coalition of different thinking, both those older, experienced politicians and us younger ones, who have come to the National Assembly as new faces with the aim and purpose of changing something here and also bringing a new policy. We have heard from one opposition party that this coalition is made up of a wild world, but this potential coalition has also been negotiated by this party, so that I do not understand clearly; I am new in politics and I do not understand exactly how it is possible to negotiate with the wild world. Somehow that makes me think that they did it in their pocket. But that may well be the result of my political inexperience. The important good thing that the candidate has is that he was the mayor. This fact was also recognised by the champion of the biggest opposition party, and this is not a small advantage, it is a great advantage. This can make him feel not only for local self-government and the area of local needs, but also for a small person – because there is in fact contact with the citizen, the citizen and some state structure first. On the basis of all this, I think, I say, I firmly believe that Mr Marjan Sarec's candidate is encouraging confidence. I believe he will be able to run this government very well. It will be difficult to lead, of course we will help him, but I believe he will have a happy hand in choosing a ministerial team. What also inspires me with hope is the way our party has recruited candidates for Members. We weren't picked up on the street, but we had one special procedure that we could run for office, and that's also what gave me confidence in this new way of working, in the new faces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u49	Member Peter Joseph Česnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. Congratulations to Mr. Sharpe! It's not going to be an easy way, but you've shown a certain ability to compromise the solutions you're taking. Being mayor is a good foundation. Now you'll be mayor of 214 municipalities plus everything else that's in the state system, so you'll probably end up with as many hairs as I have. I'm sorry there are no MPs on the right. This is actually a denial of the electorate as well. If we look back a little bit, almost four years ago, the government of Dr. Mir Cerar took place, and then Alenka Bratušek warned of the need to save both pensions and health care. Nothing was done in the mandate of the outgoing government. It was warned that this should be done, but the previous government has transferred responsibility to this national assembly and, of course, to this new coalition government as well. The minority government itself can work well, especially because each of the partners knows that a hundred percent of its programme cannot be implemented, but compromise in the coalition contract we each have our own piece of cake and we are willing to work with the other partners on the professional side. Each party shall also have its own experts who are willing to work in this manner. Retirement was agreed. This is one of the most important things. Pensions will also be more dignified because Alenka Bratušek, as you already know, has insisted on increasing the percentage of the pension and the abolition of austerity measures. Since the crisis is over, the next crisis is probably somewhere behind the Šmarna Gora or behind the Karavankas, and when it does, we will have a real catch. When I look at this, we have agreed, together with coalition partners, to reduce waiting lines in health care. To this end, certain budgetary resources will be allocated, something has been said in the media 30, 35 million and so on, and it is essential that when this money goes into this path, in order to solve the problem of waiting species, at the same time we start a solid, central health reform for all Slovenia and for all citizens. As our party President Alenka Bratušek has already said, we have taken over as a party in the coalition certain key tasks. You know, in addition to being the Prime Minister, she was also the head of the Directorate of Finance and therefore has experience in these areas and could peacefully coordinate the financial, health, social or field. Of course, without the help of coalition partners and consensus and common solutions, this will not be the case. Speaking of solutions, Mr Sarec has presented some vision of the situation and possible exits or at least the points we need to address and resolve. We can't put the solutions here on the table because the solutions will take place individually. Some of the measures are already in place, but let's put this aside. The Hand always says that there was no solution, now at least we have a draft of a government, we have a mandate-holder who is, and I hope that he will succeed in his work here. Since others disagreed with some ways of our work, we focused on areas where we can also achieve tangible results and tangible improvements. We will take over the Ministry of Infrastructure and Environment and Space. Let me add that, in order to satisfy the group's human rights appetites, at the Alenka Bratušek Party, we have also given in to the staff cut so that the government can come together and move on. If we look at the euro coins with Trubar's image, it says: "Stop and stay." Slovenia has been creaking in place for the last four years, now it's time to move. One of my colleagues or colleagues said that they were new faces and that we wouldn't be old, I'm not new face and I'm not young anymore, but pensioners are my priority and my health. [[…]] Slovenia is getting old and we have to address these things as soon as possible. Of course, that's the policy we do at the Alenka Bratusek Party. Politics is the ability to accept compromises, and this minority government has formed on the basis of effective compromises and negotiations where Mr Sarec has had a lot of credit. I am confident that our pro-activities may extend to other Members and partners, as well as to have a President with Mr Sharc. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u51	Member Violet Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. First of all, I congratulate my colleague Sharc on his courage, perseverance and patience. Comrade Sarec is now my double colleague, first playmate, now a coworker of the ranks here in the National Assembly. And we who have studied and somehow lived in the theater, which is a mirror of society, have learned one important thing, and this is – collective work. There is no theatre work, let us leave the monodramas, and stand up performances that sometimes here too, unfortunately, we watch, but the theatre is collective art. Everyone is important, including the one who lights the light, including the one who presses the button at the right time to play music. And we can't all be Hamlets. It is also very important that one holding a helebarde or that the dialogue of the gravediggers may be the sugar that makes this performance the best. And speaking of gravediggers, I hope that we will finally bury the old policies that led Slovenia down for a quarter of a century. That we will finally, as we say, transform new faces into a stream that is constantly growing, despite the enormous economic growth with which we like to boast. When we talk about new faces, we're not talking about young faces, as a colleague from the SAB used to say. It is not about youth, it is about experience, wisdom and, of course, about new faces that are not burdened with some ties, whether it be EmChem or the Vatican or NATO or anyone called the uncle from the background. We would have dealt with Sharc rather quickly, and also colleague Trček gave some reasons why we are not members of the coalition. But those who had the opportunity to be prime ministers had a serious problem with it. You know what Alenka Bratusek was doing and how she was jumping, and what she was giving about the Left as if she had, I don't know how many Members or if she was even elected to this National Assembly. But it is known that there is nothing left for one but to be part of the coalition. The voters chose the left center and asked us to make a deal. And we made a deal. It wasn't easy, but we agreed. We now have a minority government, but there is no new government anywhere in the world. By following mature democracy in Scandinavia, minority governments are common. We Slovenians have a young history of democracy and we learn. Why don't you give something a chance? Why immediately disqualify something that has not yet come to life, which has not yet taken the first step? I believe the right hand hurts. Of course, they are in pain and disagree with what we are going to do. We're very different in software, too. But once again, the voters have chosen. A colleague from Nova Slovenije spoke about the education in question, public education, state education and wants more Catholic education. Thank God, there are times behind us when church dignitaries ran kindergartens, schools, hospitals. Today we have a secular state, and this is a civilizational acquisition that we must not deviate from. I hope that there will be more culture and less hate speech in this National Assembly than we have seen before with the President of the SNS, because calls for the arms of citizens are unacceptable. I also hope that the new President of the National Assembly will have more hearing and will stop the hate speech. We're the ones who give the mirror to the citizens. We have to be an example. If we act primitively, then we cannot stop the savagery of the citizens who will be the most wicked and can really take justice into their own hands, which we know has never produced anything good. We have a country and this country can operate and also care for the safety and well-being of all. When we talk about economic growth, let us make sure that all citizens have some of this economic growth, because poor people are unhappy and angry and do not know who they are angry at. And then some radical comes along and shows them with his finger, you don't have it because of him, you don't have it because of him, and then everyone goes wild in that direction. And one more thing to do. Since Mr Šarec is from the cultural spheres, I hope that we will finally be able to renovate the media law and protect our poor public RTV from politicians and "collect" it, because public television, while I was working on it, did not allow political definition. Today, journalists even boast that they can work even on Nova TV and at the same time on public TV. As we separate amphibians in health care, so will they be needed in the media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u53	Dear Member Violeta Tomić, you know my style of leadership, I leave freedom of speech, otherwise I could stop almost any Member. There have also been some inaccuracies and inaccuracies in your speech, especially in your work when you talk about education. At this point, I will suspend the meeting in about half an hour, and we will continue the meeting of the National Assembly at 1:30 p.m. Mr Blaž Pavlin will continue the debate. However, I would like to point out that there are 10 other members to discuss, all the others you want to discuss will most likely be left with time to share, so that you can sign up, I am adjourning the session of the assembly, and we will continue it at 1:30. (The sitting was suspended at 13.02 and resumed at 13.30.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u54	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the adjourned session. Member Blaž Pavlin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. Welcome, fellow Members and dear fellow Members! Almost certainly today we will get a mandate holder for the composition of the government, who will only be able to form a minority government with five parties after two months of coalition negotiations. The future of such a government, which will need to confirm all the important decisions supported by the nine members of the Left, is at great stake. And what will be the new government? The majority of the government will consist of coalition partners who are resentful of past mandates. To a large extent, they are responsible for excessively long waiting lines in health care, corruption in public money consumption, low pensions and ineffective public administration. The second part, however, is inexperienced newcomers who are unknown to the leadership of the country, and this can cost us a lot of money. Instead of dealing with serious reforms that are still important for the future and development of Slovenia, their task will be to preserve the status quo and the old privileges. At the moment, Slovenia would need a Prime Minister and a government capable of making structural changes resulting from the ageing of the Slovenian population and at the same time the problems of young people in Slovenia. With an ever-increasing number of older people, there will be even greater pressure on the pension and health allowance. I am convinced that the coalition of parties, which is the main culprit for increasing waiting lines in health care and lower pensions, will not succeed. I hope I'm wrong about this and I'll be positively surprised. However, I expect the new government to listen and also support the proposals and initiatives of the opposition members in the National Assembly and to adopt laws for the benefit of all citizens. Members of the NSI will try not to disappoint the electorate and we will support all the laws for the good of the people and not the mandate of Mr Marjan Sarc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u56	Member Rudy Bear has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Among all the candidates so far, Marjan Sarec is certainly the most disdainful, ridiculed, humiliated, insulted in the political landscape of the government, in part of the media landscape and among political acquaintances on social networks. During the post-election period, he was denied the right not only to form a coalition, but to take political action at state level at all, that he was a complete political novice, a political analphabet, that he had nothing to look for in politics. But Marjan Sarec is the only politics in Slovenia that citizens have voted three times in elections in less than a year. Twice in Presidential and Parliamentary. He did a good job in these elections. For such a political beginner, actually, it's great. Among the arguments why Marjan Sarec could not be Prime Minister was quite a bit grotesque that he did not have experience leading the government. Of course, even if I had, long - standing political experience is not a guarantee for us to run the government successfully. As we recall, since 2008, it has been like living in some extraordinary political situation with temporary governments, since we had our last regular parliamentary elections in 2008. That was ten years ago. And then we wonder what really got people into politics so much that they don't go to elections anymore. In these last ten years, the two governments have elected politics with the most experience and with the longest experience in Slovenian politics, but we had early elections both in 2011 and 2014. It is interesting, in fact, that the government has lasted the longest, almost the entire mandate, even though it was composed — this was the last government — and led a man without experience in politics, who had never performed any functions in the government before. Thus, the rule that the guarantee for a stable and successful government is a person with a long-term internship in politics and experience in managing the country, in Slovenia, has not been confirmed in practice in the last ten years. Nor has the rule been confirmed that a large and comfortable majority in Parliament is a guarantee of its stability. Given that big infrastructure projects are also waiting for us in the road area – for comparison, this is like driving on the highway, we are witnessing over speeding, blackmailing the advantage, overtaking the right, driving in the wrong direction – the opposition is quickly suppressed on the runway, and this is going until there is a stalemate. After experience in the last ten years, however, any such a little bit of a stalemate also means early elections. But there's another way, another alternative, not the most popular, but it's a two-band ride. This is really going slower, but traffic is running, no one is speeding, not speeding, not forcing the advantage, not just to drive in the opposite direction. Here the drivers watch out and take care of each other. There are no congestions on two narrow belts, no accidents, because we all become more responsible, with greater obedience to each other. That's how the future coalition and government will work, I believe, and I'm sure, under the leadership of Marjan Sarc. I will support Marjana Sharca as Prime Minister of the Government. I am aware that the operation of the minority government will be a two-band drive. It's not ideal, but traffic is running.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u58	Member Edward Paulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! Slovenia needs an operational government, a government with full powers and a government to tackle the country's acute problems immediately. Today we'll take the first step. I am sure that Mr Marjan Sarec has proved to be the optimal solution for the President of the Government during the negotiations, so he has my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u60	Member Alexander Reberšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Your Honor! A healthy farmer tells me there's something really bad, really wrong in this country. The laws are the same for everyone, but unfortunately we are not all the same before the law. We have people who barely live in this country, but we have people who are allowed everything and will never reach a time limit. There is no poverty in Slovenia because we cannot feed the poor. Poverty is because we can't feed the rich, the tycoons. I think it's time, and this has been the last time we can resist it. When will those who have taken credit to the NLB respond and, as it turns out, will never be returned? How much longer are we going to watch long waiting lines, too many wages for nurses, while at the same time allowing the taxpayer's money to flow into private pockets through public contracts, annexes and other contracts? Are we going to allow state-owned companies to make millions of profits and pay their workers very little? We collect stoppers, collect old paper, send text messages to help the needy. We collect money for children and for people with special needs, for treatment, for equipment and for therapy, while the government signs, searches and buys equipment for migrants. Unfortunately, with current social policy, the country supports the week. The difference between work and work is €180. Our work is not appreciated at all. The difference between social support and minimum wage is, as I have already mentioned, €180. There aren't many who don't even have a minimum wage. In my hands, I hold a payroll where a person of 30 years of working age does not even receive a minimum wage. This is a great shame in our country. A reputable candidate for the term of office! If you are elected, you accept responsibility for the leadership of our country and also for these problems and questions that I have raised. I lay down on your soul, never forget honest, decent, hardworking people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u62	Member Robert Pavšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u63	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Today we hear words like labelling, block division, left, right, middle. I say the page depends on perception. You are on your left for me today, but you are actually on your right for the President. As we have here, we knew when we sat in these chairs and how we would be assembled in the government in about a few months. There's one block and there's another block, there's a middle, there's an opposition on the right that believes us, and there's a beautiful opposition that hopes, and there's someone who doesn't believe anyone but himself. Today, we are concluding the 75-day process of selecting a 13th-governance mandate holder who confirms that there is enough support in this institution for a new way of working that excludes no one because of his conviction, but has reservations about the way people work and treat people. We are what we do. That is why I personally decided to go to politics, because with my name and my work I see a great opportunity for progress. Nevertheless, I feel like a journalist in politics at this level, that the situation here is too confusing. For if we talked to you yesterday to do something together, we are now looking aside as if we are enemies, that we are no longer allies. The objective must be clear, regulating such a framework that we can all live better and, above all, safer. It's not like we're playing like children in the sandbox and telling each other that our dad can beat your dad. That's not right. Of course, it is difficult to rule, and this also proves that today we have only one candidate for a term of office. If it were easy, we'd have a whole bunch of them here and we could choose. This means that it is necessary to build up enough courage and put great effort into this process. I am sure that the next government will do well to include different views and different solutions, from the left, from the right, from the middle, also by those who hope to take them into account. That's why we're all here, after all, to talk and coordinate. Because if you didn't, you'd be one enough to know everything and everything you knew would be right. That's why I'm going to support today's candidate for term of office, because I trust him and I believe that things are going to get better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u64	There's a MEP with a word. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I'm not afraid to take responsibility, said the candidate for the term, and I have no reason not to believe him. The programmes are coordinated, including the direction of social development and our views are very similar between all five parties to the coalition. And this seems particularly important to me at a time when the values and methods of action of some parties are clearly socially and, if you want, culturally also appear to be unacceptable. We are witnessing the growling, the promotion of hatred, the spread of false news with the aim of exposing one untruth as truth. In the past mandate, the modern centre party made a major breakthrough, a breakthrough in its actions and achievements, including through a culture of political dialogue, not least by enforcing and respecting its political partners. We have been a majority member in the past mandate and have created stability and prosperity. Therefore, there is no reason for SMC to be the weakest or weak link in the new government. On the contrary, it is likely that it will guarantee this stability to move forward. There is often a question of how long this coalition will last. I know families when there are only two children and they spend half their lives in a court of law arguing about their legacy after their parents. But I also know families with six or eight children who can love and understand, even though they are different, and live in style. I think it's a case we can set for ourselves, not a mere story. We are all chosen to work for the good of the people, so I believe that we are not too much for this coalition and for a stable government, as in a good family. While I'm at the family, I can also use this parable of the dota. We all probably agree that this government, the emerging government, gets one very good thing. I'm inclined to think she'll be able to make good use of it. As a member of the SMC, I certainly expect that we are working to preserve public health and public education, to shorten the waiting lines in health care, to maintain the good state of the economy and infrastructure, to start building the third development axis in the coming year, to ensure that the country is guided by affairs, conflict and corruption, to focus culture and to continue this trend of falling unemployment. With these expectations, we have the right to bind a new government. Why do we have this right? Because no one has left Slovenia in better skin than the coalition and SMC and the government of Dr. Mir Cerar. From here on out, my optimism is that I know you can. It's been four years. With fair intentions, which I have absolutely no doubt, Mr Šarec, as a new mandate-holder, can continue in the direction of maintaining the prosperity that we have been building together in the coalition. Dear Mr. Sharpe! Today, in one of the positions of the Members' groups, you have been tried to label, quote, the "immortal souls of communism", the end of the quote. Don't let that confuse you. Many times it will happen because these ideological instigations are always a way to focus attention on yourself. You certainly have my voice, the voice of SMC, and I believe that you will drive this yacht, not the boat, but the yacht, well forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u66	Member Igor Peček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! Before the elections, I promised a different operational policy on my own behalf as well as on behalf of the party. A policy that will be based on dialogue and the search for, in particular, common solutions and compromises that we are prepared to accept in politics. Today, when the election has been for quite some time, we have come to a result in which very much effort has been made and we must say very much of the knowledge. This proves that we are following the promises made and the goal that comes from this promise. This also brings about my own personal expectations, and at the same time, in this new role that I have been entrusted with, I am faced with things that I have not been accustomed to. I come from the economy, there are certain things we've done a little differently. I don't mean to say that the situation I'm in is sad, even though I might want to sometimes, but certain things surprise me. In dealing with such situations, which at this moment surprise me, I see in the future the functioning and role of the new government and also my own. I therefore strongly believe that by today's vote of support, I will contribute to the promise I have made in the introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u68	Since I have exhausted the list of all the debaters, we are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will also get the word of a representative of the proposalr and candidate for Prime Minister of the Government. The representative of the proposaler, Tina Heferle, has the floor. He's quitting. The following notifier shall also be cancelled. Since all the debaters you wanted got the word, and the time has not yet run out, there is a chance to share the time. I ask whether anyone wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. There are still wishes. Please, if you'd like to sign up. Log in by pressing the talk key. If a representative of the applicant Tina Heferla and the candidate for Prime Minister Marjan Sarec are also present, they will be given the floor as the last, first the representative of the proposer and then the candidate for the Prime Minister. Everybody turn off the red light on your microphone. When I open the application, press the speaker key. I'm opening the application. Each debater will have five minutes of time available. The word is Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u69	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Members of Parliament! The election of a government term holder is never a small political event in any country, because it certainly brings new elements to political life or at least it is supposed to bring. Between these walls and within this space, it becomes very easy to play a policy of cautious exhaustion. Somewhere in the face of pointless debates and focusing on marginal rather than substantively open issues, there are problems that need to be addressed, not crises that need to be resolved. And so at a certain point, we stop interfering with what is possible and settle for what is most likely. But in pluralistic democracy, we have no choice. Politics depends on our ability to convince each individual of a common goal based on a common reality includes compromise, the art of the possible. I think it's basically today's debate about what the Slovenians are betting on. We bet a reasonable and acceptable measure of risk. Are we betting on our development responsibilities? Are we also betting on the effort that will have to be put into creating a city in Europe and in the global processes of the world? Do we recognize our relationship without a fig tree in our pocket and without a Balkan travesty? Do we accept the creative process of commitment for the common good in which we entered voluntarily, even with enthusiasm? Ladies and gentlemen! We will also face each and every one with its own measure of cynics, doubters, and liars. And because it is the way it is, and because we live in Slovenia here and now, but not on the golden road, we will not be able to pass without being faced, so that the keepers of any misery in Slovenia and the wrong knights of the spirit will preach all this together. But they need to look under their skin. On the outside, there is one carnival, a comic poverty, a parade of ridiculous puffs. Under the skin, however, hopelessness and shortsightedness are clearly seen, if not the blindness of their indulging. You can only become a good politician if you can handle it so that the frauds can distort your truth. However, it will be distorted to make it easier for the ignorant and uninterested to cheat. I support Mr Šarc's mandate mainly for one fundamental reason. I think the candidate for a mandate understands the basic mood of Slovenian people and what Slovenian people expect from their elected representatives. This is a persistent action in accordance with common sense. Go to the method and use it. If it doesn't work, honestly admit it and try another. Above all, try something, especially work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u70	Member Jože Lenart has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u71	Dear colleagues! Each of us who have decided to run for office as a member of the National Assembly and we have been given the confidence of the electorate, we have embarked on this path with a vision. Today we can start to realize it. This is also conditioned by the election of the Prime Minister and the Government itself as such. I personally see the resulting combination of 5+1 coalition as a good democratic starting point for future work. Of course, such a democratic coalition 5+1 requires a lot of negotiation and prudence, which is good and positive in terms of the quality of the content of the projects. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I look forward to the challenges we have set ourselves in the coalition agreement and the new challenges ahead of the coming mandate. Good cooperation, colleagues and colleagues, forward! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u72	Member Dusan Shisko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u73	Your Honor, thank you for your word. I'm really new in this world. Most of us are new in here. However, dear fellows, I have a kilometer from the congregational species, where we knew exactly who was identified for what. We don't know what the Left is in this crew. You're all talking 5+1. If an agreement is signed, then it's a coalition. Why would I want to know? In particular, because when we put together committees, we will not be able to define the Left as to whether it will be with the government or will be in opposition. I would therefore really like to ask before we decide and vote that we know what they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u74	Otherwise, this does not directly relate to the vote today on the President of the Government, but I should inform all Members that the Legislative and Legal Service has already drawn up an opinion which clearly shows that the members of the committees and other activities in the National Assembly will have the status of the Coalition Group. We are therefore moving to a vote on the proposal by the Group of 43 Members and Members for the election of Marjan Sarc as Prime Minister of the Government. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be a secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. I have already received a proposal from the Group of Members for the members of the Commission who are in charge of the vote. These are Franc Breznik, SDS Group, Andreja Zabret, LMŠ Group, Predrag Baković, SD Group of Members, and Janja Slug, SMC Group. I, too, am a member of this committee as chair of this meeting. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. I ask you whether anyone opposes this proposal for such a commission. If you don't object, then we're moving on to a decision. Please check for voting devices. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present, 61 votes against, none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word “for” or the word “against”. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution, the candidate for the Prime Minister of the Government will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. I warn you that only Members and Deputy Secretary-General may be present in this Chamber at the time of the vote. I ask all other experts from the other parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at the time of the vote. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 2.10 p.m. and will last until 14.25 p.m. Members and Members who will assist me in the vote, please meet in room 217 after the vote. I interrupt the 1st item of the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 2.40 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.03 p.m. and resumed at 2.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u75	Dear Members and Members, we continue our adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the consideration of the interrupted 1st point, this is the proposal for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of Marjan Šarc as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are as follows. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 17 August 2018. 87 ballots were distributed, 87 ballots were delivered, one ballot was invalid, 86 votes were valid. 55 Members and Members voted against by 31 Members and Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Marjan Sarec was elected President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. I sincerely congratulate Marjan Sarc on behalf of the National Assembly and wish him a successful job in carrying out his duties. The better you do your job, the better it will be for all of us and for all of Slovenia. Please, if you swear. In accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask Marjana Šarca to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u76	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u77	Does Prime Minister Marjan Sarec want to talk to the National Assembly? He does.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u78	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I thank you for your 55 votes. That's more than we expected. I also thank those who have not given their voice to me and tell you that I will also work for the benefit of all of you. Regardless of who voted for me today and who didn't, everyone can be sure that I will devote all my strength to making it better for everyone. True, today’s election is not yet the last step. Today's election is the first step towards the formation of the 13th Slovenian government. In the coming days, we will have to make great efforts to form a ministerial team, to ensure that ministers successfully hold hearings before the parental committees, and then we will be able to swear as a whole government with full powers. Again, thank you all very much. I also sincerely thank those who have given us a voice in the elections of the National Assembly, for without them today I would certainly not have experienced this city. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-08-17-SDZ8-Izredna-05.ana.u79	I thank the Prime Minister for his words and wish him well on his way. And a message to the National Assembly. As Member Marjan Sarec has been elected Prime Minister of the Government, he is no longer in a position of office. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidate or candidate will act as a Member instead of a Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. Since Marjan Sarec was elected Prime Minister of the Government, I find item 2 of the agenda irrelevant. I interrupt the 5th Extraordinary Session of the Assembly, which will be resumed on Thursday, 23. August, 10:00 p.m. I believe the President of the Government is now available for all congratulations.
