ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 60th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Tanja Cink until 1:00 p.m., Bojana Muršič until 12 p.m., Iva Dimic, Marinka Levičar, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 15.30 p.m., Eva Irgl, Vinko Gorenak, Franc Laj, Franz Breznik, Dragan Matić from 15 p.m., Mitja Horvat from 13.30 p.m. to 16.30 p.m., Matjaz Hainz to 13 p.m. and from 18 p.m. to 15 p.m., Mataj Tašner Vatovec to 10 p.m. and from 16 p.m.m., Miha Kordiš, Matjaž Hanžek and Roberto Battelli. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and supplements to the witness protection law after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's a good-bye to all of you! The Witness Protection Act lays down the conditions and procedures for the protection of witnesses and other persons who are at risk of cooperation or testimony in criminal proceedings. The law was adopted in 2006 and has so far received only one major novelty in 2007. This is therefore a fairly stable law, which does not change often, although it has an important impact on the effective functioning of the rule of law. Today, we are considering a proposal to amend this law in response to some of the operational needs of the witness protection programme in our country, which have proved to be based on the current implementation of the applicable law, and thus, the purpose of today's novelty is to protect the human rights of protected persons, as well as their family members, in particular the right to life, to physical integrity and to personal dignity. At the same time, we also have the objective of ensuring the effective functioning of the rule of law, i.e. protecting and ensuring the interests of the witness in the criminal and pre-trial proceedings. In order to facilitate the understanding of the proposed amendments, I would like to point out in the introduction that protection of persons at risk is ensured at various levels, by dividing it into the implementation of so-called emergency protection measures against the inclusion of the person at risk in the protection programme and the implementation of safeguards when the person at risk is already in the protection programme. The main purpose of the bill before you today is to enable more effective implementation of safeguards in the stage of urgent safeguards. To this end, we propose that, at an early stage of the protection procedure, at the same time, a change of identity and the associated possibility of using modified documents be made possible in the event of an emergency move. This will ensure a higher level of security for the vulnerable, as it will be impossible for the uncalled for persons to identify the current address of the person being in danger. The novel also enables us to maintain a changed identity permanently. In addition, the proposed law regulates the possibility of international cooperation in the field of witness protection with international institutions which do not have state status and implement a witness protection programme. In the first place, we are allowing cooperation with the international criminal court. In this way, the Republic of Slovenia will in fact provide the conditions for full cooperation with the court. Particular attention is paid to the novel, which is also intended for the collection, exchange and processing of personal data before you, so that this area will be regulated in a normative manner in accordance with the standards set out in the field of personal data protection. With the proposed solutions, we redefine the entire set of personal data collected and processed by the Unit for the Protection of Hazardous Persons in the implementation of the duties under the Witness Protection Act. We are convinced that the proposal for a law represents an important added value to the more effective and safer implementation of the witness protection programme and other vulnerable persons in our country, which means both strengthening the human rights of persons at risk and the essential interest of the effectiveness of the rule of law, so we propose that the law be supported. That the solutions that are necessary and important before you today are also evidence of the fact that they were created in agreement with the Ministry of Justice, other competent authorities, in particular the Ministry of the Interior, more specifically the Police and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u3	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u4	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Existing legislation laying down the conditions and procedures for the protection of witnesses who are at risk of participating in or testifying to criminal proceedings has proved to be insufficient and necessary for further improvements in certain places. On the basis of the implementation of the protection programme in the Republic of Slovenia and in the performance of tasks in the international environment, the need for further regulation and the preparation of certain amendments have emerged, thereby making the implementation of the witness protection programme more effective and secure. The new Witness Protection Act, prepared by the Government, provides an adequate legal basis to ensure safer protection of vulnerable persons during the stage of the implementation of emergency protection measures, while also ensuring conditions for international cooperation in the field of witness protection with international institutions that do not have State status and implementing a witness protection programme and also showing operational interest in cooperation with the competent witness protection authorities in the Republic of Slovenia. The prepared novel will enable the protected person to use the changed identity after the implementation of the protection programme has been completed, and the important objective pursued by the preparers of the novel is to regulate the legal provisions concerning the collection, transmission and processing of personal data of persons addressed under the Witness Protection Act. The draft law on amendments and additions to the Witness Protection Act was supported by the Supreme State Prosecutor, the Ombudsman, the Supreme Court and the Police, as well as by the Council of Justice. We consider the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Witness Protection Act to be good and useful in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Rescue Centre, which is why we will also support the proposed Act on the Protection of Witnesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u5	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Well-known, Secretary of State, co-worker and MPs and Members of Parliament! Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Today we are considering a proposal for a law that is in line with all the relevant services, supported by the State Council, the Police and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the proposal was also unanimously adopted on the home working body. We also support the bill in the Desus Group, since it strengthens the safety of protected witnesses. Some positive changes will be provided to protected witnesses during the implementation of the programme itself and also after it has completed the amendments and additions to that proposal. The Witness Protection Act was adopted in 2005 and was then supplemented several times. However, experience so far has shown shortcomings, particularly at the end of the programme. For the successful implementation of the programme, modified official identification documents must also be used when changing identity. According to the new, a protected witness will have the opportunity to pursue life with a new identity or to take back the original. Furthermore, the possibility of international cooperation with institutions that do not have state status will be increased and the witness protection programme will be implemented. For example, the International Criminal Court has its unit to assist victims and witnesses, but there is no possibility of direct long-term implementation of the witness protection programme. It is linked to the States parties to the Rome Statute and their willingness to cooperate. Although Slovenia has ratified the Rome Statute and adopted a law on cooperation with the International Criminal Court, the current legal regime does not allow cooperation in the field of witness protection with international institutions which do not have state status. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposed law will contribute to greater witness protection, so of course we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Witness Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u7	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the 12th item of the agenda. We're moving to 18. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) on documents containing key information on packaged investment products for small applicants and insurance products under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u8	Dear President, thank you very much for the floor. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 92nd emergency meeting. 4. 2018 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) on key information documents on packaged investment products for small investors and insurance investment products submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council, and the opinion of the European Central Bank. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the individual article of the bill have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service also attended. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and solutions of the bill. As the main reason for the adoption of the proposal for a law, the adaptation of domestic legislation adopted by the Regulation of the European Union will increase the level of protection for small investors. He stressed that the adoption of the bill was crucial to restoring the confidence of small investors in financial markets. He also said that the draft law sets out the bodies empowered to impose sanctions, as well as the procedures by which they are pronounced. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to certain uncertainties and disagreements between the individual proposed provisions with the provisions of the Regulation. She pointed out that, under certain provisions of the fines, the proposal derogates from the Law on Offences in the same way as some other laws already in force, and therefore reminded the Government of the need for appropriate legislative changes. Finally, she said that the amendments of the coalition groups took due account of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. The debate expressed support for the bill and the additional protection of small investors, which it allows. In particular, the issue of the division of powers between supervisory authorities has been raised, which is regulated in a wide variety of ways in the current legislation. The European Central Bank also drew attention to this problem in its opinion. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the coalition groups. He also voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on all articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting to all! The need for systemic regulation, in particular with regard to the provisions governing fines in national legislation, required a new proposal for a law that actually transposes the European Union regulation into the Slovenian legal order. The Regulation seeks to bring the transfer of documents as easily and comprehensibly as possible, which will make it easier for a small investor to decide on investment in investment and insurance products and, above all, to restore the confidence that has soared over the years due to the impact of the financial crisis. Each provider of such products will therefore have to make greater efforts in terms of clearer information on the characteristics of products, possible risks and costs, which will certainly lead to greater information, expertise and transparency in the implementation of such procedures. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is essential to clearly identify who are the holders of responsibility or to identify the competent authorities that will effectively and transparently carry out control measures and offences. Currently, in Slovenia, the burden of control is divided between three authorities, the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. In its opinion, the European Central Bank also drew attention to the issue of the sharing of powers while charging new tasks. The implementation of the regulation will bring greater information and, above all, the safety of small investors, so we will unanimously support the proposal for legislation in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u11	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Left do not object to the content of the proposed law, which is intended to protect consumers, but we have serious reservations that the power to control infringements of consumer rights is left to the Securities Market Agency. The Securities Markets Agency has recently completely cancelled in order to protect small shareholders from the dumping of stock brokers. And what exactly is this about? At the time of ownership, Slovenian nationals acquired ownership certificates which they had lodged with the company or the PID, and became a small shareholder. By 2015, these citizens had their shares stored in register accounts, which were free for more than 20 years; in September 2015, the SMC, Desus and SD registry accounts simply shut down. All the citizens who wanted to keep the shares had to unwind the trade account. The closure of the register accounts was therefore solely in the interest of banks and stockbrokers. In September 2015, members of the Left proposed twice an amendment to maintain registration accounts and protect citizens from new costs. You need to know that there was a large majority of pensioners and people in general who owned very small shares. But the coalition was undeniable and rejected the amendment of the Left twice. Instead, it has adopted an amendment of the right opposition which has limited the costs that the broker may charge to the shareholder. Most of the stockbrokers were slightly ignored by the law and charged disproportionately high costs to the people; the Securities Market Agency did not prosecute the violators at all. Therefore, the Members of the Left in October 2016 proposed an authentic interpretation of the law, which would force brokers to respect the restrictions. At that time, the Agency for the Market in Securities, which is supposed to be an independent institution, was actively involved in the parliamentary procedure by openly putting itself on the side of the stockbrokers. Although the National Assembly accepted our authentic explanation, this did not stop the stockbrokers. Nor have they been stopped by the Securities Market Agency; it has not yet punished stockbrokers who have invented new ways of serving at the expense of pensioners and other former holders of registration accounts. Therefore, Members of the Left cannot vote in favour of a law which trusts consumer protection with the Securities Market Agency. Finally, it must be said that the last nail in the register account coffin was killed by the Constitutional Court. In March this year, at the request of the stockbrokers, it lifted all restrictions on the cost of trading accounts and opened free hunting for citizens. If the members of the coalition of September 2015 did not mechanically copy the Brussels Directive and instead take into account the interests of citizens and citizens, this would not happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u14	Madam President, once again, thank you for your word. The reason for the consideration and adoption of the proposed law is the adoption of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on key information documents on packaged investment products for small investors and insurance investment products, which responds to the identified need to disclose information to small investors. In accordance with the proposal for a law, coordinated action is ensured at the level of the European Union. Information on investment products is uncoordinated between small investors and those who produce such products for sale to these investors and therefore small investors do not have adequate information to safeguard their interests. Such investors often receive unclear and overly complex information on possible investments, and therefore it is difficult to assess and compare the risks and costs of products. The purpose of the bill under consideration today is therefore to inform small investors of the properties of packaged investment products and insurance investment products in an understandable way. This allows the introduction of a key information document. This is a short and concise document allowing a small investor to get acquainted with a particular package or insurance investment product and their comparison. Each provider of such products will have to prepare a key information document and publish it on their official website. This therefore improves the quality of information available to small investors when compared to different types of products. The small investor will be able to understand the characteristics of the individual product and also all the risks involved. Such a document is needed in the framework of the protection of small investors and is a prerequisite for restoring their confidence in financial markets. The proposal for a law also lays down control measures and offences committed by the competent authorities in the implementation of the provisions of that Regulation. Member States must ensure that competent authorities have the power to impose administrative sanctions and other administrative measures which are effective, proportionate and decisive. It is therefore crucial that the Regulation improves the quality of information available to small investors when compared to different products of this type and therefore the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre of the Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) on key information documents on packaged investment products for small investors and insurance investment products to be implemented by this Regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, I interrupt the 18th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed bill on the termination of proceedings against the staff members of deleted companies within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by Mr Janko Weber, who I give him the floor to further explain the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, President. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law on the cessation of proceedings against the shareholders of deleted companies interrupts all judicial, administrative and enforcement proceedings initiated under the Financial Business Act and the Financial Transactions Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination procedures whereby creditors of deleted companies enforce claims against shareholders or their legal successors. The proceedings should be suspended pending the completion of the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, pending the completion of the decision in the Lekic case against Slovenia, on which the case is currently pending before the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights. It should be noted that, according to available data so far, procedures are under way against several thousand affected shareholders who are generally paying through the enforcement process that has already occurred in 1991. It is also interesting that the Law on the Financial Activity of Companies, which actually works retroactively, is a law of surprise, because when shareholders invested their shares in companies, they could not expect to be responsible for the company's obligations with personal property. Thus, the arrangement is aimed at allowing the shareholders who have invested their assets in entrepreneurship to exercise their entrepreneurial interest with it, and making sure that when they invest their assets in society they do not endanger their personal property, but only their contribution. This is very important because with the implementation of the Financial Business Act and the Financial Business Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures, the normal route for several thousand shareholders and families was interrupted, as they were actually responsible for their contribution to society overnight with personal property. Most of them, however, have had very serious consequences, in some even a hopeless situation that has led to the breakdown of families, the blockade of all means of life, means a very difficult situation for life, the seizure of all property, as well. Above all, their flow of active and created life was interrupted, which is an extremely difficult situation in which they found themselves. The law suspends all proceedings, but at the same time I would like to point out that the law provides that, at the time of the suspension of proceedings, the delay is not to take place, so that if the actions in the European Court of Justice were unsuccessful, the proceedings would continue without prejudice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u17	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u18	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 92nd emergency meeting. 4. 2018 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on the cessation of proceedings against the shareholders of deleted companies, submitted by Mr Janko Weber to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee received the following materials: the opinion of the Government, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by Mr Janko Weber, on the 1st, 2nd and 3rd paragraphs of the draft law. At the meeting, the drafter of the law, Mr Janko Weber, explained that the amendment to Article 2 had been withdrawn and proposed an amendment to Article 2. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Prof. Šime Ivanjko and Mr Janez Mohorič, representative of the Civil Initiative of Violently Deleted Enterprises, attended the meeting of the Committee. At the meeting of the Committee, a member of the Committee of the Desus Group announced obstruction for this item of the agenda for himself and for a member of the Committee from their parliamentary group pursuant to Article 65(2) of the Rules of Procedure. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the bill's drafter, Mr Janko Weber, presented the objectives and purpose of the bill's proposal, as set out in his presentation today, so I will not repeat them here. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention in particular to the issue of the completion of the procedures, the substantive link between the procedures and the continuation of the procedures when the final judgment of the European Court of Human Rights would be known. With regard to the termination of proceedings and the situation of creditors, she pointed out the possibility of creating legal uncertainty as the continuation of proceedings is bound by a law that does not yet exist. Certain issues are addressed by the proposed amendments, namely the continuation of proceedings and a clearer definition of which proceedings are terminated before the court until the completion of the procedure. In its opening remarks, the representative of the Government presented the Government's opinion on the proposal for a law and cited the arguments why the Government does not support the bill, stressing the issue of possible interruptions of procedures, breaches of the principle of retroactivity and questions of the legal protection of creditors. He also drew attention to the existing judgments of the Constitutional Court. The debate raised the issue of interference with various procedures, the question of missing legal personality, the fact that there have been no new claims for damages since 2011, and it was pointed out that the judgment before the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Lekić is not necessarily a reference judgment. On the other hand, it was pointed out that the draft law had been dealt with in general and that the majority of Members had decided at the 39th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly that the draft law was appropriate for further consideration. It was also pointed out that the European Court of Human Rights had decided to refer the judgment to the ECHR Senate, which meant some new circumstances. The possible major financial implications were pointed out once the judgment was adopted and the time component of the problem management was also exposed for too long. Professor Šime Ivanjko and Mr Janez Mohorič from the Civil Initiative of Violently Deleted Enterprises presented the area and complex issues further. In the course of the discussion, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology pointed out that the position of the State's Attorney regarding the appeal in the case of Lekić was not a so-called pilot action; the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance made further clarifications in the debate. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled and adopted the amendment to Article 1 and Article 3 and the amendment of the Committee to Article 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u19	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Gorazd Renčel.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. First of all, I owe an apology to the well-respected assembly for the delay in the previous item on the agenda, and we were a little surprised by the speed of the meeting. In 1999, the Law on the Financial Operation of Enterprises was adopted in the National Assembly, aimed primarily at improving financial discipline, enhancing the safety of creditors and allowing the removal of non-functional companies from the Court Register without liquidation. The removal of inactive companies from legal traffic required legal certainty, in particular the safety of legal traffic, since it protected creditors and reduced the risk of business. The legal consequence of the deletion was, inter alia, the assumption that, by deleting, the shareholders were deemed to have made a declaration to assume the obligations of the deleted company. The proposal for a law on the cessation of proceedings against the shareholders of deleted companies, submitted by Mr Janko Weber, provides for the cessation of all judicial, administrative and enforcement proceedings in which the creditors of the deleted company claim against the active shareholders of this deleted company. It is important to point out that, in relation to the issue of deleted companies, the Constitutional Court has ruled in three cases, in which two of these three cases have already repealed the provisions of the law which provided for the cessation or termination of pending proceedings, thus following the objective also pursued by the present proposal. We stress that the final consequences of the regime contained in the proposal for a creditor law would be exactly the same as you have already anticipated in a constitutionally inconsistent regime. Having regard to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the proposed suspension of proceedings pending and the interference with existing legal relations would affect the acquired and expected rights of creditors and thus the right to judicial protection and the right to private property. In the amendments to the draft law adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the continuation of the suspended proceedings is linked to the adoption of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the Lekić case. We point out that the Lekić case is not being dealt with by a pilot judgment, but rather by a decision in a separate case. This means that a possible conviction in a separate case does not necessarily constitute a systemic problem, as the infringement may be based on specific circumstances which distinguish this individual case from other similar cases. Due to the indeterminability and ambiguity of the text of the proposed law, there could be, in practice, conflicting interpretations and thus inconsistencies with Article 2 of the Constitution. As a result of all the above, the Government does not support the Proposal for a Law on the Cessation of Procedures against the Shareholders of Deleted Companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u21	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 39th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, after an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm putting an end to the 19th item of the agenda. We're moving to 22. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on international development cooperation and humanitarian aid to the Republic of Slovenia under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Andrei Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u22	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to introduce you to the Proposal for a Law on International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance of the Republic of Slovenia. In opening, I would like to stress that international development cooperation is an expression and reflection of Slovenia's solidarity as a developed country towards partner countries. We are helping to eradicate poverty, reduce inequalities and achieve sustainable development while contributing to security and stability in the region and the neighbourhood and strengthening the economy in partner countries. International development cooperation is an important instrument of foreign policy. The bill before you is a fundamental tool for the implementation of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance. It replaces the law in force in 2006, which no longer meets actual needs and current circumstances. The resolution adopted last year presents a proposal for a law part of the renewed normative and strategic framework for international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia. In the drafting of the text, we have drawn from the experience we have had so far in the field of international development cooperation and current trends in the international community. We have taken into account the recommendations of various audits of state authorities, international audit firms, OECD and recognised experts in this area. We have also worked closely with NGOs and other operators of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance and with the Expert Council for International Development Cooperation. Let me add that the implementation of the law will have no financial implications. National and other authorities will exercise their powers within existing human resources and financial frameworks. The bill establishes, as I said, a regulatory framework that will enable international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance to be implemented in line with current trends in the international community, thus making Slovenia more effective in some way also carrying out its share of responsibility in implementing the 2030 Agenda. Allow me to introduce to you the main news of the bill. These are the next. The draft law introduces the concept of international humanitarian assistance and sets its own objectives, introduces a framework programme that allows flexible and transparent planning of resources for a multi-annual period, coordinated at national level, allows for proactive cooperation of the private sector, introduces a legal basis for entering into multi-annual strategic partnerships between budget consumers and selected operators. It enables cooperation with other donors in partner countries and provides a legal basis for joint and shared funding of programmes or projects with other donors. It shall establish a system of cooperation with institutions or institutions established by the Republic of Slovenia in the field of international development cooperation. It offers the possibility to conclude multilateral contracts for the implementation of international development cooperation. Finally, it regulates the evaluation of international development cooperation programmes and projects and introduces an instrument for the implementation of external evaluation to this end. We believe that the law on international development cooperation and humanitarian aid will enable the achievement of the following objectives: more effective exercise of competence, optimization of business, acquisition of private financial resources, greater flexibility in the performance of work and, last but not least, greater transparency in the operation and implementation of projects. The bill provides a basis for progress and development in the field of international development cooperation. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the commitment and commitment of the members of the European Union that have become members since 2002 to seek to increase official development assistance to 0.33% of GNP by 2030. In order to fulfill what we have committed ourselves to, we will need your help, not least. I also thank you for your cooperation within the competent bodies of the National Assembly. On this occasion, I would ask the National Assembly to carry out a third examination of the bill at this meeting. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u23	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State Andrej Logar, dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 69th urgent meeting on 13 April this year, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the Proposal for a Law on International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance of the Republic of Slovenia submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. The committee was 20. 3. 2018 Opinion sent to the Legislative and Legal Service. Members and members of the Committee were also informed of the following material, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs of 28. 3. which supported the proposal of the law. Amendments to Articles 9, 10, 11 and 17 were tabled by qualified candidates, SMC, Desus and SD. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Andrej Logar, gave an additional explanation on behalf of the applicant. He said that international development cooperation is an important instrument of foreign policy and also an investment that brings positive results both to Slovenia as a donor and to its partner developing countries. Through international development cooperation, according to the Secretary of State, Slovenia also contributes significantly to security and stability in the region and the neighbourhood and strengthens the economy in partner countries. He stressed that the draft law, together with September last year, adopted a resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance for the Republic of Slovenia and the strategy under preparation, was part of a renewed normative and strategic framework for international development cooperation. He stated that the proposal for a law was a fundamental tool for the implementation of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid and replaced the existing law of 2006 which did not meet the actual needs and current circumstances of international development cooperation. The debate highlighted the importance of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance as two important objectives of Slovenian foreign policy, as highlighted both in the Declaration on Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia and in the Resolution on International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance of the Republic of Slovenia. The opinion was expressed that the bill provided a legal basis for the Republic of Slovenia to become a more credible and recognizable partner of international development cooperation in the world. It was pointed out that the proposal regulates and also makes possible the work of the mine action facility, the ITF, which plays an important role in ensuring world security. The involvement of the private sector in international development cooperation projects and the satisfaction expressed that the proposal also follows some of the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In the debate, the Member asked whether the projected growth in gross national income by 2030 and whether the report of the Committee on International Development Cooperation to the OECD and the recommendations of this Committee had already been included in the preparation of the draft law and strategy to be followed. Support was also given for the new evaluation methodology, which would include a substantive evaluation of project performance in addition to the financial results. Mr Logar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, confirmed in his replies the importance of adopting a bill, including the position of support for constitutional principles that ensure the humanitarian behaviour of the State. On the basis of Articles 131 and 53 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee further decided on the amendments. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 9, 10, 11 and 17 above. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u25	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat has the floor of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, Secretary of State, co-workers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The bill provides a fundamental tool for the implementation of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance. It aligns actual practice with the normative framework, takes into account international standards in this area, as set out by the OECD, the UN and the European Union, and creates a normative basis for the development of this area. The areas of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid will become important in the coming years, in line with commitments, as Slovenia has made a commitment within the European Union to increase the share of gross national income in international development aid from 0.19% to 0.33%. These commitments, of course, take into account public financial capacities and macroeconomic trends. Due to the fiscal consolidation required by the European Stability and Growth Pact and the Fiscal Rule Act, a moderate nominal growth of official development assistance is foreseen in the coming medium term. In 2016, the Republic of Slovenia committed EUR 73.5 million of official development aid, which is 0.19% of gross national income. It is planned that an agreement on the way and dynamics of the gradual increase in the share in 2018 will be adopted at the level of the Government by adopting an action plan to be prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. In the Desus Group, we see international development cooperation as an important instrument of Slovenian foreign policy that contributes to peace, security, stability and sustainable development, while strengthening our visibility in the world. In doing so, we must highlight a number of bilateral humanitarian aid projects, such as health rehabilitation of victims of armed conflict in Ukraine, psychosocial assistance to victims of conflict and assistance in the area of integrated rehabilitation in Gaza, education on the dangers of mines and explosive remnants of war for Syrian refugees in Jordan and many others. Slovenians in this area also show that we have a great heart, so in the Desus Group we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u27	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear guests! The Republic of Slovenia, on a global scale, is one of the most developed countries, which have committed themselves to contributing the largest share of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid to reducing the differences between developed and underdeveloped countries and to more coherent development in the world. This kind of responsibility of Slovenia comes not only from its commitments within the UN, its commitments under the Treaty of Lisbon, its commitments under the Paris Climate Agreement, but, as a country, we are also morally committed to contributing, in our power, to greater international solidarity and to smaller differences in the development of countries. The bill that we are considering today is based on the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, including the Resolution on International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance as a strategic document adopted last September in the National Assembly. Both the resolution and this bill provide that Slovenia is gradually committed to official international development aid of 0.33% of gross national income by 2030. In 2016, we earmarked €73 million for this type of development aid, which amounts to 0.19% of gross national income. The 2006 Law on International Development Cooperation has become obsolete and needs to be thoroughly recast as a result of new knowledge, new practical experience and numerous recommendations made following audits by the Court of Auditors and the OECD competent authorities. This bill therefore introduces many new developments in this area. Thus, the proposal specifically defines and regulates humanitarian aid, which differs significantly from international development aid according to destination and objectives. The draft law provides for a framework programme adopted by the Government to allow flexible and transparent planning of funds for a multi-annual period for the needs of the Single Mode and the scope of funding planning for international development cooperation. It is also important to introduce a system of effective cooperation with institutions set up by the Republic of Slovenia for general or charitable purposes in the field of international development cooperation, such as the Centre for the European Future or the Institution for the Strengthening of Human Security. We have therefore identified international development cooperation in our programme as an important instrument of prevention aimed at preventing or at least mitigating international tensions and conflicts. Slovenia has been leading an active foreign policy for a long time in the pursuit of stability and peace in the Western Balkans countries, with our efforts to reduce the development gap between countries, peace and stability of various war and other humanitarian crisis hotspots. The Social Democrats will, of course, support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u29	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! International development cooperation in the global economy serves to preserve the existing exploitation relations of the countries of the global periphery, so-called developing countries, at the expense of the countries of the world centre or so-called developed countries. Unlike military intervention and free trade agreements, this is a more perfidious form of domination, which aims at maintaining the dependence of former colonies on colonizers as well as the first two. It is about maintaining access to natural resources, the cheap labour market and markets for exports of final products from the countries of the World Centre. It's about keeping the operating system at home and in the world. In Levica, we believe that the international solidarity of all people, united against the system of capitalist exploitation, is necessary to eliminate poverty, inequality and discrimination, for the decent life of all people, for real sustainable development, both in an environmental and social sense, and not least for the peaceful co-existence of all people and the existence of humanity on this planet. It is necessary to move from the current form of international development cooperation, which is no longer intended to preserve existing social relations in the world, to the form of international development cooperation that will encourage changes in these relations. The law under consideration today operationalises the Resolution on International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly last year. This is a very technical law, which still leaves most things to be regulated by acts of law. This and the financing of development cooperation projects, which have proved to be insufficient in the past and which shows that for Slovenian policy, international development cooperation is a necessity, something that we have to deal with the accident of each government suit, which does not go beyond Brussels, because of some commitments that were probably more prestigious than anything else at some top international meetings. This is probably why, following the expiry of the previous resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian aid for official development assistance, Slovenia did not devote half of the amount of official development assistance to which it committed itself. Although it has committed itself to this at the highest international level, and although it has had more than 10 years of time to achieve its objectives. If the OECD methodology in 2015 did not include the provision of refugees in our territory, the results would be even worse. That's the way it is in this country. Commitments to foreign investors and euro bureaucrats are valuable and must be respected, and commitments to the undeveloped countries and people living there are, at best, religious desires for Slovenian politics and, at worst, empty promises that are forgotten at the moment the soybeans are extinguished. Despite the fact that the law we are dealing with is quite technical and in many respects is inconvenient, it does not, in particular, create good grounds for communication between the Ministry of the Interior and other stakeholders in the field of international development cooperation, we will not oppose the adoption of the law in Levica. We are aware that we need the Law on International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid, irrespective of the criticisms expressed and the overall political misstep of our development cooperation policy. However, it would probably be good to amend this law in a very short period of time and to define more clearly the mechanisms of cooperation between individual stakeholders and to ensure a long-term sustainable and stable system of financing development cooperation projects, which is now left to the regulation of sub-legislative acts and each time the will of the Government and the Ministry of State. At the same time, in order to improve the policy of international development cooperation itself, it would be good to establish a specific expert council as a consultative body of the Ministry in which all stakeholders would be represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u31	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Have a good day to all of you at this fast-moving session! When we mention development, we think too often only about economic growth and indicators that measure, how much and what added value we produce. The syntagma of the developing country is in the language of dialogue, and unfortunately also among political decision makers, it is still mainly understood as a reminder of the poor country. On the other hand, we do not talk enough about development as human rights, as acknowledged by the 1986 United Nations Declaration on the Right to Development. The first article of that declaration justifies the right to development as an inalienable human right, according to which all individuals and all people have the opportunity to participate, contribute and receive economic, social, cultural and political development through which all human rights and fundamental freedoms can be fully realized. The right to development also includes the realization of the right of peoples or nations to self-determination, as envisaged by the two basic legally binding international human rights instruments. The text of the declaration and the genealogy of the right to development show that the right to development is the basis for the realization of all generations of human rights and is indivisible at the same time, as it is realized through their continuous and progressive realization. If we understand development as a human right, then we also know and assume our share of complementary obligations. International development assistance is not a matter of charity or even charity, but rather, in line with the Declaration of Right to Development, the fulfilment of obligations to create national and international conditions for the realization of the right to development, either individually or in regional and global partnerships. Understanding the nature of this right is particularly important at a time when we are committed to achieving the seventeen objectives of the sustainable development agenda for sustainable development by 2030 and, by adopting this proposal for a law, with considerable delay, however, we are rounding up the process of reforming the normative foundations for the implementation of our country's international development assistance. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the bill because it follows the fundamental values and objectives that we have set ourselves with regard to the approach to international instruments and initiatives in the field of human rights development and in this National Assembly and in this mandate the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the Resolution on International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance of the Republic of Slovenia. Compared to the law in force in 2006, the proposal defines humanitarian aid, extends the development partners' range to the private sector as well, enables strategic partnerships to be concluded and provides the basis for multilateral projects with foreign partners. With a new legal basis, better resource planning will be possible, and in the SMC we expect that, as soon as possible, there will also be sub-legislative acts necessary for the implementation of official development assistance, and we will allocate 0.33% of our gross national income by 2030. In the hope that the formal aid system will soon be complemented by a mechanism of substantive evaluation and not only the accounting effectiveness of our global development efforts, we will vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u33	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes the 22nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed bill on the consulate to protect under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Andre Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u34	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Consular Protection Act removes certain restrictions on consular activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Slovenian Representations abroad, which are not addressed or addressed by the current and applicable legislation in the Law on Foreign Affairs. Among other things, the law provides a more appropriate legal basis for the collection and processing of personal data needed to ensure the protection of Slovenian citizens abroad and, of course, certain new financial mechanisms. The law transposes into the Slovenian legal order the European legislation necessary to provide consular assistance at European level. This is the transposition of the Council Directive and the provisions of the 2015 Council Directive by regular number 637 of 20 April 2015 on the coordination and cooperation measures necessary for the non-discriminatory provision of consular protection of Union citizens without representation in third countries and repealing the preliminary Decision on this subject. This new Directive shall enter into force on 1 May this year. In countries where the Republic of Slovenia does not have a representative office, our citizens in difficulty as citizens of the European Union may turn to the representation of any other Member State of the European Union. The legal basis for this is already the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, but the European Directive was adopted in 2015 with a view to better regulating the consular protection of non-represented EU citizens. The main content of the directive is that Slovenian embassies must, under the same conditions as Slovenian citizens, offer consular protection to other citizens of the European Union if they do not have representation in their country of operation. The Directive also lays down the financial aspects of representing citizens of other members of the European Union and provides forms for reimbursement of costs of consular protection. The law also specifies how to provide assistance in cases listed in the Directive, such cases could be detention, victims of crime, accident, death, crisis situation, loss of travel documents, and introduces new financial mechanisms, inter alia, the establishment of funds, the recovery of funds with an appropriate legal title for recovery through Furs on the basis of an administrative decision by the diplomatic and consular representative. For this purpose, the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides for EUR 30 000 in 2018 and 2019 on our internal item the material costs of diplomatic and consular representations. On this occasion, I would also ask the National Assembly to carry out a third consideration of the proposal at today's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u35	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State Mr Andrej Logar, dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 69th urgent meeting, on 13 April 2018, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a bill on consular protection submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The board was 19. 3. transmitted opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy were also informed of the following material, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on International Relations and European Affairs of 28. 3. 2018 supporting the draft law and explaining to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the comments on the draft law on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 4. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Amendments to Articles 1, 2, 9, 11, 12, 14 and 15 were tabled by qualified candidates, SMC, Desus and SD. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Andrej Logar, gave an additional explanation on behalf of the applicant. He stated that the draft law transposes into Slovenian law the provisions of Directive 2015/637, which provides for the equalisation of the provision of consular protection to Slovenian citizens and citizens of other Member States of the European Union who are not represented in a third country and ask for consular assistance from the diplomatic consular office of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law, according to the Secretary of State, also provides a more appropriate legal basis for the collection of personal data. He said there would be a bill of 1. 5. 2018 beyond Directive 2015/637 entered into force, the budget also established a legally appropriate financial mechanism for reimbursement of the costs provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He concluded that the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service were fully taken into account in the proposals of the amendments of those parliamentary groups. The debate stressed that the proposal for a law removes the obstacles that Slovenian citizens abroad have faced so far in situations where they needed consular assistance, which sometimes also required financial assistance. It was pointed out that the draft law also regulates these situations in countries where the Republic of Slovenia does not have diplomatic and consular representation. It was pointed out that the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations should also be consistently taken into account when regulating consular matters. It was expressed satisfaction that the requirements of Directive 2015/637 regarding the protection of personal data would be transposed in a timely manner into the Slovenian legal order, that the travel document, the travel document and the hope expressed that appropriate mechanisms would soon be provided for the establishment of adequate control over the coverage of financial assistance to Slovenian citizens who are in unfavourable situations abroad. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Andrej Logar, pointed out in his replies that he would be from 1. 5. 2018 on the budget item of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the material costs of diplomatic and consular representations provided for by EUR 30 000 will be introduced, and a mechanism will also be introduced to recover funds that may be recovered in the event of non-payment through decisions of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. He said that this is a proposal for a law which means the humanisation of the relationship between citizens in distress and the country, which also protects the reputation of Slovenian diplomatic and consular representations, which are sometimes unjustifiably criticized when faced with problems. On the basis of Article 131 and 53 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee decided on the amendments and adopted the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 1, 2, 9, 11, 12, 14 and 15. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which includes amendments adopted, is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u37	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u38	Your Honor! Data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia show that our citizens and citizens made a total of more than two and a half million trips abroad in 2017. This information is the most plastic illustration of why it is reasonable and even necessary to regulate in detail and comprehensively the area of consular protection, which the State in a separate law is obliged to offer to its citizens who are in difficulties abroad. The area of consular protection is currently defined in all seven articles of the External Affairs Act, which do not cover the actual complexity of situations and the scope of consular duties to provide consular protection to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and also the European Union. Why am I talking about the last one? The 2007 Lisbon Treaty, when the Republic of Slovenia was already a full member of the European Union, significantly strengthened the status and content of rights under the European Union's citizenship, including the right to consular protection. One of the most tangible expressions of citizenship of the European Union and of European identity, which we most often adopt when we are outside the European Union, especially when we are in distress, is the right to seek assistance from diplomatic and consular authorities of any other Member of the European Union in the territory of a third country where our country does not have its own representation. The latter are obliged to respect the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and to provide the citizens of the European Union with consular protection under the same conditions as they offer to their citizens. Cooperation and coordination between the Member States of the European Union in the field of consular matters is an expression of European solidarity, which has only expanded and deepened by the adoption of Council Directive 2015/637 in 2015. This directive, which we bring into our legal order by means of a bill, also requires Member States to offer consular protection to family members of a European Union citizen who are third-country nationals when travelling with him. In this way, the legal security of people is particularly and significantly enhanced, and our consular protection system is becoming much more viable. In this regard, it is essential to mention the 3rd key set of innovations in the draft law that we have on our benches. For the first time in the independent Republic of Slovenia, there will be a legal option and a prescribed procedure for borrowing money for citizens who are abroad in emergencies, which has not been possible until now. The proposal for a law accurately defines the urgent cases and the procedure for the recovery of the funds established so that we can rightly believe that the Republic of Slovenia will always be able to help those who really need them through its representations. Since all rights are also granted with responsibility for its enforcement, we also welcome the legally envisaged possibility to recover the unusually high costs incurred in offering consular protection to our citizens or citizens of the European Union in certain cases at their initiative or at the initiative of their owners. In summary, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are pleased to be able to regulate the area of consular protection in this mandate by means of a separate, more substantively appropriate law and to transpose in our legal order Council Directive 2015/637 in a timely manner, so we will be pleased to support the proposal for a bill on consular protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u39	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome a more comprehensive regulation of consular protection primarily because this will ensure greater security for people when they travel abroad. After all, this law regulates more fully how to offer assistance not only by Slovenian embassies and consulates, but also by European consulates or embassies. This is about solidarity between the countries of the European Union and, certainly, improving its security or security by allowing state authorities to invest money for an individual who is in an awkward situation abroad. This means that citizens will be able to travel more calmly abroad. Probably the only thing they will need is that they will have appropriate addresses, telephone numbers and other information where they can turn, if they need any help, or if they need any service from the Slovenian Consulate or the European Consulate or Embassy. This, of course, does not mean that I want all citizens and citizens to have to turn to the Slovenian embassies for help because of any unpleasant events. On the contrary, I wish everyone a happy and safe path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u41	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u42	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, Members, representatives of the Government and other representatives present! The proposal for a bill on consular protection follows years of experience in offering consular protection to Ministry of Foreign Affairs officials and broadly addresses the different situations of our citizens who find themselves in difficulties abroad and seek consular assistance. The principles of the proposed law are in particular the principle of compliance with the rules of the European Union, the principle of the provision of consular protection for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the principle of equal treatment for citizens of the European Union and their family members travelling with them as one of the fundamental rights deriving from European Union citizenship. The law therefore lays down the coordination and cooperation measures necessary to facilitate the provision of consular assistance at European level and also provides the legal basis for the collection and processing of personal data to ensure the protection of Slovenian citizens abroad. The Directive, which is being transposed into our legal order, provides that representation abroad must, under the same conditions as its citizens, offer consular protection to other European Union citizens without representation in third countries. The draft law also defines the urgency and the conditions for setting up the financial resources, while at the same time providing that the procedure for setting up the financial resources shall be further regulated by the rules issued by the Minister responsible for foreign affairs within six months of the adoption of the proposed law. Most of the Member States of the European Union also have a money lending institution in place in connection with the provision of consular protection, but unfortunately almost a quarter of the money lent is not coming back. Since we believe in the Desus Group that the adoption of the law is essential for an integrated regulation of consular protection, we will unanimously support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u43	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby adjourn the 23rd agenda item and the 60th extraordinary session, which will be resumed by vote at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u44	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 12, 18, 19, 22, 23, 20, 21, 14, 15, 16 and 17 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Witness Protection following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the 12th item of the agenda. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) on key information documents on packaged investment products for young investors and insurance investment products under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 45 in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the 18th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Cessation of Procedures against Associates of Deleted Companies under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 51 Members and Members were present and 33 votes against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 19 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on International Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance of the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There were 59 Members and Members present and 52 votes against. (For the vote was 52.)(against 7.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 22nd item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Consular Protection under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 59 of whom voted in favour and no one opposed. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 23rd item of the agenda. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on railway safety under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 4 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 20th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Transport in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u45	Thank you so much for the word, for the pleasure of all present! I ran this very fast vote from the former Slovenianles, the current House of the European Union, where today is the presentation and debate on the Climate Mirror 2018. The largest polluter, if we look at greenhouse gases in Slovenia, is traffic. In 2006, this was "only" 38%, now above 50%. At the second place of energy recovery, however, the necessary apartments, resorts of those who have become owners of the apartments with the Law of Jabinšk and now do not have the money to be properly heated. You will say, “What does this have to do with rail transport?” It's huge. In some societies and countries that think themselves, rail traffic is regulated, there is a backbone of traffic, both public passenger and freight, and in this light it will require some serious reflection and also a departure from what someone said there, a dictatorship of asphalt, where local elections are mainly held. Why are we against these two laws? Transport is one of the most regulated areas. In these two laws, essentially the transposition of the three Directives translates a hundred sub-legislative acts to the rank of some regulations. If you go to the brother of the directive, what we are doing in Levica, for example, in the second part of security, we could implement this by 2020, by 16 June 2020. Sometimes it's really urgent, but sometimes it takes some serious thought, which we don't think was enough here in Levica. However, I hope that the next parliamentary call will deal with matters that I have been dealing with on behalf of the Left for three years, eight months and 17 days, so that this society and the country have never had a serious transport policy, let alone a mobility policy, never a serious housing policy, and, of course, under the great influence of the energy lobby, never a serious and weighty consideration of energy efficiency or inefficiency. However, I hope that I am already saying that this coalition will be so smart that we will not now – whatever the Government wants – have discussions about the energy concept, because if there is ever no time, now is not the time to do so. We will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u46	We're voting. There were 59 Members and Members present and 46 votes against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] . I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 21st item of the agenda. We continue with the end of agenda item 14, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Social Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] . I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 14 of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 5. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, again. This law is stated in the human language. In principle, there is a story about how citizens and citizens can participate in local self-government and, in fact, it screws it up in such a way that it is not possible. In Article 5, we delete the restriction of referendums at local level. In the debate, of course, it was then heard the story that some crazy lunatics would then go to minima some mayor, which is insulting to us, citizens and citizens. And there was a parallel between what was the previous call of the National Assembly – with which then the outgoing President Mr Weber even praised at the first meeting – was accepted at national level, so that citizens and citizens can no longer decide on any very serious matters at the referendum. However, the fact that you have always abused referendums in the 27 years of the history of Slovenia in politics does not give you the right to point your finger at citizens and citizens. You are always largely or 100% of these abuses cooked by old political parties, to which SMC has now joined, including the proposal of this law. We are actually eliminating this limitation of the referendum will at local, municipal level with this amendment, which I hope you will support. We will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u48	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 7 votes in favour and 37 votes in favour. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 6. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Party, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. But here's the thing: something is something or something is not. The participatory budget is a participatory budget, but it is not a pitiful cheese. In fact, with this proposal, as amended here, you want to sell some pumpkins like, I don't know, sausages if I put it that way. Of course, there is great resistance to this proposal of our policies, which you have mayoral interference with – but why is this opposition? To a large extent because of this, if we accept this and if this is accepted, we will finally have to go into a serious reform of local self-government and also answer that crucial question – where does the money come from? I guess that's what you're up against. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-17-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u50	We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 35. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present and 45 votes against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 15 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft law on accessibility of websites and mobile applications under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 3. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendment and second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There were 56 Members and Members present and 44 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 3 of the amended bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body, or the National Assembly, in the second reading, would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 16th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft Law on Information Security in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 17 of the agenda. I am adjourning the 60th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
