ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, [[microphone is not enabled]] Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I am opening the 58th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 16:00 to 20:00, Mrs Anita Koleš from 16:00, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 12-16:00, Mrs Iva Dimic from 14:00, Dr László Göncz, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Marjan Dolinšek from 14:00, Mr Uroš Prikl, Mr Branko Zorman from 15:00 and Mr Franz Laj. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 58th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 4 April 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as you received it on the bench with a reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. He's here? Member and Members, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 58th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is the final report on the Parliamentary investigation carried out in the field of detection of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sale and purchase of vital resistance. The final report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of venous braces. The final report is public and will be considered by the National Assembly at an open public meeting. An integral part of the final report is also an additional final report which takes into account the protection of personal data and is marked by the degree of “business secrecy” and “bank secrecy” under Article 125 of the Banking Act and another supplementary final report, in accordance with the Secret Data Act, marked by the degree of confidentiality “internal”. In view of the above, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 101(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, will consider those additional final reports at a closed meeting for the public today, 30 minutes after the adjournment of this item in the public part of the meeting. I would ask all the debaters not to mention in the public debate the information contained in the supplementary final report and the other supplementary final report which are not available to the public. We are moving on to a discussion on the final report, the essential findings and on the proposals for a decision and on the amendment of the SDS Group to the draft decision to be taken in public. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mrs Jelki Godec. Here you go. [[noise in the hall]] Yes, please, if a little colleague has done her best, listen to her carefully. [[…]] The Commission too.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u2	Thank you very much. I think everyone on the committee has made an effort to do so and it is worth listening to, and above all a nice greeting. In view of the fact that the members of the Commission have made an effort in the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry in the area of the identification of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of vascular resistors or, in the short term, the investigative commission of the vascular resistance, therefore, given that the members have made an effort and that a great deal of work has been done in these two years, it would also be expected, at least, some Members or I personally, that representatives of the Government would also be present. If not the Prime Minister, at least the Minister of Health, the Minister of Justice and someone else. Unfortunately, there is no one here from the Government who does business around here today, but I believe that they are listening to this from somewhere, because the National Assembly investigative committee has also identified political responsibility in the country for the situation of sales and purchase of vascular cords or in the area of sales and purchase of medical material, medical material and, of course, the health system. We have also identified and assessed the actual situation. If I only remind you of the act of establishment adopted there at the beginning of 2016, it covered four points: to identify the possible responsibility of public function holders to participate in the preparation and execution of the procurement procedure in the field of the purchase of veneers due to the suspicion of the presence of corruption in health care; then to determine how much responsibility the former and current public function holders in institutions that carried out medical activities and also dealt with them; then to determine whether and how the supplier of medical equipment would have been able to transfer tax money from Slovenia to foreign and other companies, of course, the supplier Mark Medical Slovenia or Mark Medical, d.o.o. and the financial shareholder KB 1909 from Gorica and Vega Finanz, based in Luxembourg. This was written in the creation act. As you know, Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Commissions or Investigations provides for the determination, as I said at the outset, of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and of the determination and assessment of the actual situation. Well, so has the commission of inquiry, and today is the final stage, this is the confirmation of the final report of the commission of inquiry to identify abuses in the Slovenian health system in the area of the purchase and sale of vein support. As of May 2016, when it was established or the Commission started its work on the basis of 30 Members' signatures and all parliamentary parties were involved in the commission of inquiry, it has done quite a bit of the work I have said. A large number of materials were examined, interrogated, or witnessed 51 witnesses before the committee, and two were confronted. All testimonies took place on the basis of decisions taken, evidence and so on, on the basis of the material examined, that is, on the basis of all the documentation obtained by public health authorities, such as individuals, the National Investigation Office, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, probably anyone else, but not everyone now. I must say that the political parties or members of the investigative committee have cooperated correctly with their proposals, except for those of the parties or members, that is, from the Left, formerly the United Left, but they have also stated in the interim report why they did not and why they do not intend to cooperate, so that this is also correctly said and not as in some cases where various matters were involved, even the blocking of the commission itself, as you know, the final report was finally adopted after a month, three indiscretions, followed by four votes for 7 members. The final report was voted on by SDS, SD, Desus and New Slovenia, while a member of the Modern Centre Party said at the outset that it would not vote in the report itself because it therefore opposed the entries in the final report, but no amendments were made. The investigation started with one assumption, i.e. that the veneers in Slovenia were overpaid and that this would also result in corrupt acts, that the money from this overpayment should also pass from Slovenian hospitals to Slovenian suppliers and then also to enterprises abroad, in particular as I said in Italy and Luxembourg. When we began with the examination, I must say that in the end it turned out that there were indeed high prices of vein support, but in the review of the materials, new and new areas opened up to the hearing of the witnesses, new and new irregularities that then led to conclusions such as those presented in the interim report. Now an interim report, at the time, the matter was a matter of serious concern, including some indications of suspicions of crime and proposals for investigative offices to investigate certain matters so that this part could now also be said, since the interim report also includes a final report. Thus, a detailed review of the material is the testimony of witnesses before the commission, showing that it was coming in Slovenian hospitals, in particular in these two largest ones, which we have also examined in the most detail, namely UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor, that public contracts for vascular resistors from a year or until a year there, from 2007 onwards and until 2013, the end of 2014 should be arranged in terms of favouring individual suppliers in order to cooperate in this way, I will say, the lowest ones by rank or essentially by someone watching, but also from doctors who have prepared professional criteria up to then the procurement service and ultimately to the director who is definitely responsible for these matters, regardless of whether they were defending themselves in the sense that they did not know about any public tender, but the Director-General or the Director-General at the end also signed contracts. Therefore, in order to make this change we have said, it is that the technical specifications for the invitation to tender have been prepared in such a way that it is limited to one supplier and was also the only one to be declared and then, of course, the only one to be selected, because it was the only option to choose. Therefore, the fact that these procurements were carried out in a non-transparent manner, that, in addition to the fact that public contracts were carried out, they were also purchased through public contracts, and only in some suppliers or mainly in some suppliers, and here, if I say the most, I will say that there were these irregularities in the company or supplier, which was also mentioned in the act of setting up the parliamentary commission of inquiry, that is to say, most of all with Mark Medical, who was supposed to deliver UKC Ljubljana through or due to an irregularity in the public procurement of more than 6 million VPs. To the extent possible for certain companies selected, the purchase did not even take place, so they did not meet even those contractual obligations which they received on a public contract, and therefore they also went into a negative situation and withdrew from the contract, while Mark Medical was therefore the one who sold the most and also the most irregularities were detected in UKC Ljubljana. In UKC Maribor, for more than 2011-2015, let's say only one VASC-MED company in famous or already well-known Titan stents, where there was over-contracting or contract value for more than eight hundred over four years. These are only one I will say numbers indicating that it is true or that it is intended to favour certain suppliers to what, once again, those who may not have agreed to pay for various educations, travels and other benefits for hospital employees. So you can read more in the local report, both open and closed, so an additional and other additional local report, where documents have also shown that some have been shown to favour, or to arrange, public invitations to tender, if you want to pay for various benefits both materially and otherwise, and not only for yourself, but also for family members. The Commission of Inquiry was therefore united in the fact that the hospital management was responsible for the situation. However, there is also a need to seek greater responsibility in companies. So it was found that in 2013, 2014 five times the price of braces in Slovenia was higher than abroad. In 2014, 2016, three times higher. To say that UKC Ljubljana could save in 2012 if we were to purchase almost a million euros at European prices, which means that if you don't know how to imagine a million euro 283 operations in one year, we would consider the operation to be just over 3,000 euros. If we go further in 2013, when prices have dropped slightly, given the pressure that has already occurred in the media for EUR 700 000, it should be possible to save if it is obtained at European prices, that is 200 operations. Today we wonder why these waiting periods can also be found here for reasons or could find money for these matters and perhaps the situation in Slovenian health care could be different. Now the question raised was also why did all these irregularities occur? Why the hospital, why the principals, why the board of directors, why didn't doctors and other politicians react to irregularities? Why is there a constant excuse for patients and the need to procure fast and sometimes high prices? I have to say that in this case, I was also interested in professionally the vascular braces were always on the shelves so there's no excuse if you had to get fast, immediately, within 24 hours. This has always been in stock, but if not in very minimal cases. Tenders could be published normally, all suppliers could normally be selected, but this was obviously not the case. So the question is also raised, not only at high prices, but where and how high prices were coming from and where it was, then the money went. As described by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in its final report on this case, the KPK has had this case in its hands since 2013 as well as the National Investigation Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office is also clear from their final report and from our findings that there should be high prices due to several factors. The first factor is, say, high margins. Some Slovenian suppliers also had a margin of 67% or less. This means that the margins continued to fall somewhere until 2012, but if you know that one supplier had only 67% of the margin, then you know that it is normal that the prices were five times higher. This money, then it remained, or in Slovenia, and in certain cases also in Austria and Italy. The next thing we did and were told in the act, or it was written that double intermediaries, i.e. from manufacturer to user, were so-called two intermediaries, two suppliers, that means that the manufacturer sold the product, the vascular support to the company in Italy or Austria, then sold the vascular support to the supplier in Slovenia, his daughter's company, usually and then sold it to the hospital. So you have two articles between the manufacturer and the consumer, instead of one or none. We know abroad that there are therefore no presidents today, that hospitals are buying directly from producers, even from the ministers we have listened to in Slovenia, constantly seeking excuses for not being able to do so. Now, there were two companies that had, therefore, two intermediaries or another intermediary, Mark Medical, d.o.o., Slovenia, which had a parent company or had a parent company in Mark-Medical Italy, whether in Gorica or Trieste or Emporio Medical, d.o.o., Slovenia, where it procures vascular support via Newport Medical Handels from Austria. You probably know this company from the Jurkovic case, where the lady, therefore, did not put any more pressure on her to make material improvements to certain doctors or to demand bribes, even to withdraw from the sale or to give notice of crimes. So we were trying to figure it out, so both of us. Now there is something familiar, so it is in closed work, including for Emporia Medical, d.o.o., and New, so this sale of the veins from Austria to Slovenia and we also built on it, because here it was shown that most of the money then remained in Austria, so it was supposed to remain in Austria and then we were somehow trying to project also on Mark-Medical, d.o.o., Slovenia, which has done the same thing, so the vascular resistance was purchased from its parent company Mark-Medical in Italy. [[…]] Why the projection? We obtained certain invoices, documents that proved that there could thus be non-transferred prices, but that the parent company should therefore sell to the Slovenian company at higher prices than it purchased, so much higher prices than it purchased from the manufacturer, but unfortunately because of the border or this, and also the absence of testimony from certain witnesses who did not want to testify to this, it was difficult to prove these matters in fact by document. I can only assume that, and that's why we gave the investigative authority in the city report to investigate. Now, of course, here we continued then also as everyone says that it is necessary to look at the flow of money, how money goes and, if we know that, then again, it is two companies connected, so that UKC Ljubljana purchases from Mark-Medical Slovenia and this from Mark-Medical in Italy. Then we looked at the business cooperation of these companies, or where things end, or where this money would go from the payment of the ventricles not only from overpayments, but also from the part where the public procurement irregularities occurred. I would like to remind you again, so Mark-Medical is expected to supply and UKC Ljubljana is expected to supply more than 6 million vein braces that did not have a basis in public procurement in these years from 2007 to 2016. Now I will quickly try to rediscover this link again, Mark-Medical, i.e. Slovenia, was established there in the 1990s and first called Auremian, and this company was founded by Proteus, based in Luxembourg and by one Italian company Agorest. With the need to say, Proteus, who was established in Luxembourg, this company is expected to establish Safti, even after the testimony of Mr Peric, who was the director of the KB administration. Then, sometime in 1997, there was a change of ownership due to the restructuring of the New Ljubljana Bank and the financial group KB 1909, and then this Auremian later in the Mark-Medical land still owned by Proteus of Luxembourg, and in 70 percent, Mark Italy and both companies set up Safti to establish Safti. The owner of Mark later in Italy was Kb1909. So, once again Mark Medical Slovenia, the owners were from Luxembourg and Italy. Then KB, this financial group later bought property from Vega Finance or Proteus then became an increasingly owned owner, Mark Medicala Slovenia and eventually bought the whole stake in 2015. Money, where money came to Italy or how it came to and where it went forward, may be a little more difficult now. You can read it yourself. However, it must be said that when KB bought a share of Luxembourg's company, it is interesting that, say, it bought it first 30 % in 2006, so KB will buy 30% of the stake of Proteus for a million. In a year after that, Mark Medical Slovenia sold this share to Mark Medical Italy for 3 million. This is the value of Slovenian company Mark Medical rises 3.3 times in one year. And then it's interesting that even in UKC Ljubljana, there are the biggest irregularities in the purchase of vascular cords right at this company. So, more acquisitions than the contracts themselves. And this happens later in 2012. However, this data is not available for 2015. All the information I provide is obtained from the business reports Kb1909, which were recently published on their website. However, I must say that now for six months now, since we are talking about these matters, these reports have been withdrawn. So we were actually lucky to be able to review these things. So, also, the profit that Mark Medical had in Slovenia is expected to pass into the hands of the owners. At the end of the year, profits are to be paid, which is to be paid back to Proteus in Luxembourg and to Italy by the owner, Mark Italy, which was therefore also linked to Kb1909. It is also interesting that in 2007, when these properties changed, when money came to Luxembourg and Italy, that another Slovenian company was also recapitalised or purchased by Kb1909 and this is Mladina d.d. The testimony itself said that he was in the year, so Kb1909 was receiving money from Mark Medicala Slovenia. Well, it's also from the venous cord overpayments and probably another medical material. In testifying to individual witnesses before the commission of inquiry, the purchase of the shares of Mladina d.d. In 2007, Mr Greg Repovža, who was the editor-in-chief of the newspaper Mladina at the time. This and Mr. Peric [[?]] Before the Commission, they said that the company Kb1909 credited Mr Repovž with 200 000 euros, which bought the share in Mladina d.d. from Luxembourg as well as from Luxembourg and this share immediately handed over [[?]] Kb1909. The question is why Kb1909 did not directly buy this share, why it needed an intermediary, where the taxes were, whether they were taken or not. So there is also a suspicion that we wrote in the interim report that money that was passing from medical material that was loaded in Kb1909 could also be used for purchases and recapitalisation of Mladina d.d. and other companies. Indeed, Mr Peric said that the money that he had been passing on to Proteus Vega Finance in Luxembourg should be spent on recapitalisation of Italian companies. Therefore, there is also suspicion from these reports that this money could also come back to Slovenia for recapitalisation or for consumption in Slovenian companies. We further assessed the actual state and political responsibility of public officials or ministers. From the testimony of ministers, former and current ministers, it was necessary to understand the lack of ministerial power to establish a normal health system or health system that would have order that would not allow for such irregularities as the Court of Auditors found, for example, that there were 70 million irregularities in public procurement in UKC Ljubljana in 2014 and 2015. And so all the ministers said they didn't even feel responsible for what was going on in public hospitals. All I can say is that the commission found out that the minister couldn't know about every bill issued by the hospital or signed by the director or the contract. However, according to all these statements that have occurred in public, ministers do not seem to have reacted to the fact that they may have been pressured on the government, by systemic laws, or otherwise prevented. Therefore, the Commission concluded in its final report that all ministers so far are objectively politically responsible for non-adopted health legislation, which is intended to contribute to a more transparent, quality and efficient health system. However, that current Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc is subjectively responsible for the suspension of measures, since, in recent years, and from 2014 to the work of our investigative commission, the Minister has been repeatedly stressed that she is not responsible for public health institutions being independent. However, once again, the members of the UKC Ljubljana Institute Council are eleven, of which six are appointed by the Government and the current minister has replaced all of these members with her proposals, even in recent times, which have not demanded a sharper, say, external audit or any other review of the operation of UKC Ljubljana. And what the Court of Auditors finds further confirms what the Commission of Inquiry has also found. The next issue is that our competent institutions for the review of these irregularities - let me say again, the Court of Auditors initiated an investigation or decided on this audit report, which was also submitted on the basis of the establishment of an investigative commission. They looked at it in general because they knew or agreed that we were going to search the venous resistances, that it would then somehow form what it is, and the Court of Auditors' audit report is also kind of a confirmation of our work, as similar irregularities were also found there. The next case is the U.S. Attorney General's Office. The Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, who has recently been reconfirmed for a six-year term, I must say, has a heavy backpack behind him. As you know, quite a few words have already been said. Mr Harij Furlan is related to the company or to the director of Primsel, where irregularities in the sale of hip braces in Novi Gorica were found, and that is why he reacted to the NPU; otherwise, he was punished by a staff member and not an economic company. Mr Harij Furlan is also mentioned in an anonymity which was held by the Commission of Inquiry, which states that 200 000 euros from Mr Borut Miklavčič should not be investigated in this area. We were both appointed before the commission of inquiry to ask these questions, where both of them strongly denied it. According to the testimony of one and the other, there is a suspicion, despite the fact that it is an anonymous report or the record that this act has also occurred. After talking to the representatives of the National Investigation Office, who taught me that any such matter should be said and not kept silent, because, after all, if you know something and don't say it, you are guilty, in the final report, we have put forward a proposal to the investigating office or competent institutions to investigate this statement, that is, whether there has really been a bribe by Mr Borut Miklavčič to Mr Hari Furlan 200 000 euros so that this matter is not investigated. The next issue is Mr Zemlarič's testimony, which I have also given a separate opinion on. Unfortunately, at the conclusion or when the final report had already been submitted, we received material from Mr. Pezdir to prove [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I also gave a separate opinion that Mr. Zemlarič had falsely testified. I think that, too, given that the material exists, that there is some suspicion that unfortunately we have not been able to investigate on the commission of inquiry and that it would be difficult to reach these resources in this final part, but that the investigating authorities are also investigating it. Unfortunately, this has not been accepted on the Commission of Inquiry. Another thing is, the Director of the Competition Agency, which I have to say was [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And one of those, besides Harry Furlan, disappointments. In fact, Mr. Matov knew about Mark Medical's monopoly. He said he was supposed to find out from the media and our investigative committee, but he didn't react. So all of these conclusions were presented in the joint conclusions of this final report. I believe that all those who are in favour of persecution or zero tolerance for corruption, all these Members will vote in favour of this report and also the conclusion that the entire documentation will be submitted to the National Investigation Office, because it is now up to them to investigate, prove, reject, however. I think that the Commission of Inquiry has done a good job and that such a report is also for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u3	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. After such an extensive review presented by the President, you hardly know where to start, but I will concentrate on the position of the Group of Social Democrats. [[…]] So today's session begins with the final report of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of vascular braces. At the time of the establishment of this parliamentary commission, we stressed: "We want this investigator to be an opportunity for a new policy in which corruption will not be a place." But this raises a question for us. Have we achieved this goal — a new policy without corruption — from the time of the establishment of the Commission to today? The undeniable fact is that the final report of the Commission of Inquiry definitively reveals all the misery of our health system, which has deep roots, and all responsible persons, healthcare professionals, professional staff, the Ministry should be alerted that this should not happen and that it is necessary to end this Gordic knot. But despite our work, the media disclosures and individual findings, there is yet to be an end. Why am I saying that? In the past week, we witnessed the discovery of the Doping affair in UKC Maribor, when a healthcare professional illegally used pharmaceuticals and sold them as sports supplies on the black market. That this is happening, it seems that there is something right in our health system. It creaks the control of procurement, the issuance and consumption of material, the creaking control of work, the creaking of management and the organization of work, and could even list. Without all reservations, we can say that there is a lot going on in our health system very badly, that leadership is not capable of doing its work, not only of leadership, but also of the saints of institutions, but also of the investigative authorities working very slowly, too slowly. But in doing so, we are asked a legitimate question as to whether they have sufficient professional staff. Respected and respected, during the course of the commission of inquiry, the Social Democrats acted constructively and constructively, because our sincere wish was and remains that those responsible for violating public procurement acted corruptly are responsible for their actions. At the same time, in our view, responsibility must also be sought in persons who have not prepared appropriate measures when they have been detected for deviations from good practices. Already in the interim report at the hearing of 35 witnesses, irregularities were identified and there were indications of suspected crime in the area of sales and purchase of vascular restraints. There are also suspicions of tax evasion and cartel negotiations and restrictions on competition have been detected. In the second part, the Commission of Inquiry focused in particular on persons who were or are holders of public functions. We held additional hearings of 16 witnesses, including former health ministers, and already the fact that there were nine ministers in the investigation period from 2004 to today is a good indication that something is really wrong. No Minister has been able to act quickly and effectively, and there have been derogations for personal reasons. In other words, derogations due to pressure from individuals and groups who have protected and protected their profitable kindergarten. While the final findings of the Commission of Inquiry do not deviate far from the interim report we have considered on 22 November of the previous year. However, the additional hearings of all witnesses only confirm the above-mentioned suspicions of criminal services. However, I would like to reiterate that there are possible suspicions that UKC Maribor, UKC Ljubljana, were responsible for damaging public funds and acting irresponsiblely and illegally. As a result, the volume of health services decreased, the investment cycle decreased, and resources for the treatment of patients decreased. The most damaged patients are waiting in waiting lines, and these are becoming more and more. A quarter of a million. The most painful thing is that patients in waiting groups die, which is unacceptable and worrying. Public procurement has not followed the law, and there are even more reasonable suspicions that cartel negotiations with suppliers of vascular resistances in Slovenia are to take place. There are also reasonable suspicions of unlawful and corrupt actions in the case of persons who have carried out and participated in the execution of public procurement contracts for the purchase of vascular restraints. In doing so, I would also like to point out that there is a suspicion that those responsible in UKC Ljubljana and Maribor in 2007 and 2016 will, by their actions, allow certain suppliers the dominant position on the market in the sale of vascular resistors. There is also a possible suspicion that certain persons in Slovenian hospitals should demand payment from suppliers in return for the purchase of certain vascular restraints and thus act unlawfully. We too often hear that the Ministry does not have the authority to interfere in the implementation of public procurement procedures, which must be managed independently by public health institutions. But it can't, and there can't be a reason to close our eyes. Of course, there is also great responsibility in sacred institutions, which, of course, are autonomous according to their status, but this also cannot be an excuse for blinding the eyes. The Commission also draws attention to the deviations in public procurement to prevent corruption, which clearly states that Slovenian health care is not effective in the procurement of medicines, medical devices, equipment, as conflicts of interest are perceived. During the course of its operations, the Commission of Inquiry collected all relevant documentation that could help to speed up the investigation of the National Investigation Office. That is why the Social Democrats also support that decision of the Commission of Inquiry. The report also calls on the competent authorities to draw up optimal solutions to allow the existing legislation to be amended in order to break existing practices. During the course of its operation, I must stress that an extremely difficult work has been done, which is a matter of appreciation to the President and also to the members of the investigative committee. However, the findings clearly show us the suspicions of criminal service, at least in some individual cases. However, since the task of the parliamentary investigation is to determine the possible responsibility of public functions and to suspend the management staff's duty to act, the final findings of the investigative commission need to be taken even more seriously, and we therefore need to take appropriate action. It is now the task of the National Investigation Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office to examine all the documentation and our final report properly and quickly and effectively. However, at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Public Administration, it is important to draw up appropriate legislation to prevent current practice, but it is more important to tighten the supervision of the implementation of legislation. Respected and respected, health care must be an area where concern for the health of people is needed where corruption is not a city. And let me conclude with my thoughts from the 2015 Economic and Business Sciences magazine, the fact is that we need to become a responsible company that will announce such and different individuals to the relevant authorities, who will be able to sanction this properly, but we must all cooperate. With all this bad light on health care, it is important to stress that not all doctors and healthcare professionals go to one basket. In the healthcare system there are also concerned doctors and healthcare professionals who carry out their work according to the medical doctrine in caring for the best of our patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u5	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, followed by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Members of the Left did not support the establishment of commission of inquiry under the leadership of the SDS, nor did we really participate in their work. It is unacceptable that the investigation into banking crime and health corruption is led by the SDS, which led the government at the time most of the bad loans were made, and also at the time that hospitals were buying vascular support at the highest prices. In 2012, the second Janševa Government was in power when hospitals were supposed to acquire a five-fold higher price than in comparable countries. She had the authority to appoint a majority in all the sacred institutions, but the testimony of then Minister Gantar showed that she did not act. Perhaps someone will say that they did not have to know, but that is not true, the SDS Member, Mrs Nada Brinovšek said at the November session herself, and I will quote: "In 2012 there were even louder warnings that the ventricles are being obtained at much higher prices than in foreign markets." How did not Desus' Minister Tomaž Gantar and the President of the then government, Mr Janez Janša, then hear these warnings? So leaving SDS to investigate the affair about banks and hospitals is like leaving SD to investigate the TES6 affair. It was clear in advance that the SDS would abuse itself in order to relieve itself of any responsibilities and blame its opponents. Indeed, even before the commission of inquiry completed the work Janša vascular resistance in its typical manner abused clients for its purpose, in an interview with RTV on 19 November, I quote: “The lobby from one simple purchase of vascular resistors in 10 years withdrew 200 million euros and that a large part of this money went to maintain the media scene that defends the existing dream and further benefits of this corruption was the company that issued the weekly Mladina.” All these allegations are bare manipulation, the amount of EUR 200 million has no basis in the evidence, the Commission's report shows that UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor are to be overpaid for a total of EUR 4.5 million in 2012 and 2013 according to an average of EUR 2.3 million per year. Now, even if we multiply this amount by ten times, which would be excessive, but also if we multiply it by ten times, we get to the number of 23 million euros, which is still almost ten times less than the Janšev 200 million. At the same time, it is absurd that such charges are disseminated by the President of the party whose media are financed by Hungarian companies, by the parties who rent loans of unknown origin in the Republic of Serbia and by the party involved in the corruption affair Patria, which, as usual with SDS, is obsolete. Members of the Left are not and will not give legitimacy to such manipulations, but unfortunately coalition parties have done so. Citizens and citizens should be reminded that SMC, Desus and SD in the coalition contract have promised to carry out a systematic investigation of so-called bank holes and other state-owned projects. Not only have these promises not been fulfilled, they have not even adopted a law that would allow this to happen. And that is why we have today instead of an impartial professional report before us, a political pamphlet that most coalition members will seem to have confirmed. The fact is that the members of the coalition commission also clearly distanced themselves from the report. All the findings are written in a double condition. For example, the Commission found that, I quote: "Political responsibility for non-admission of health legislation to contribute to a transparent health system should be given to ministers of health." End of quote. What does that mean? But did you find political responsibility or not? Whatever your excuse is, the findings of this committee are empty. You say that all ministers of health, from Andrei Bucan to the current Minister, may be objectively responsible for the non-admission of health legislation. This, colleagues and colleagues, is a typical political trick. Divide responsibility into everything, so that in the end no one is responsible for anything and is not responsible. We all know that health ministers are not responsible for proposing public procurement legislation. We all know that no minister can make a law without the government's approval. And we all know that laws are passed by the National Assembly, not by the government. Therefore, you are objectively responsible to the parties' policy, which you have been members of the government or parliamentary coalitions over the past decade. Yeah, what I said, hold on, but you don't need an investigative committee to figure that out at the same time. The Commission proposes to us that the executive and legislative branches of authorities should hold a debate and possibly propose amendments to legislation in the field governing the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors. That could mean anything or nothing. The Commission is also proposing a discussion on how to define more clearly the responsibility of the boards of institutions in terms of the supervision and responsibility of the management staff of public institutions. It's also about selling fog. The Offices Act clearly provides that the Director is responsible for the legality of the business and that the Expert Director is responsible for the professionality. He appoints or disposes of the board of the institution with the consent of the founder, that is, the government. The details are set out in the statutes adopted by the founder, so again by the governments. I do not know how the line of responsibility could be any clearer, but it was certainly clear enough that the Commission, under the current legislation, attributed the alleged subjective responsibility of Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc. Look, the sinful goat became a minister, who was the only one of all the ministers involved actually starting to systemise the public procurement, the minister in the mandate, when the price of the supports is inadequately lower than before. Now that Milojka Kolar Celarc has taken the worst part of the report, it is not a coincidence, but she is the only minister who has actually started to live up to the promise of ending unjustifiable concessions and supplementary health insurance, and, of course, has mobilized a medical and insurance lobby. And it's a shame the Commission didn't calculate how much public health money has unduly ended up in commercial insurance companies. After all, she doesn't have to. This calculation is well known. Due to the high operating costs, marketing, capital reserves and, of course, the profits of insurance companies, we lose about EUR 60 million per year, about as much as we would have lost in 28 years with the alleged overpayment of the venous support. But SDS and NSI, in the end, also SD and Desus did everything to bring it down, stalled the law that would end the supplementary insurance and replace it with a solidarity fair payoff. Finally, let me say that Levica, instead of these Flossules, is proposing a concrete solution to reduce the cost of medical materials for the executive and legislative exercises of the authorities to discuss possible legislative changes. In Levica, we propose the establishment of a public company for the purchase of medical materials, which would oust entire private intermediaries from the market, because this is the only way to expose high commissions and cartel arrangements. Neither the State authority nor the Competition Protection Agency nor this Commission of Inquiry have ever proved cartel negotiations because this is virtually impossible to prove. Instead of such hunting, it is necessary to establish a public company that will squeeze out all private intermediaries by providing medical materials at the lowest cost. The lowest price would be achieved by purchasing materials in large quantities, and its commissions would cover exclusively operating costs, even if a public procurement company would generate profits, this profit would remain in public ownership and could be returned to the public health system. Anything other than this solution is merely cosmetic repairs of the corrupt system, but it does not necessarily suit the Slovenian political establishment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u7	The New Slovenia Group has the floor, Mrs Iva Dimic for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u8	Your Honor! New Slovenia's parliamentary group co-signatured a request two years ago to appoint a parliamentary investigative commission to identify abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of venous braces. The purpose of the Commission was to identify the possible responsibility of public function holders to participate in the preparation and implementation of the procurement procedure in the field of the acquisition of vein support due to the suspicion of the presence of corruption and the possible responsibility of former and current public function holders. The message follows: The agony of Slovenian health has been dragged on for many years. The current Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with President Mir Cerar, has not yet prepared changes to health legislation to ensure greater efficiency and transparency in the functioning of health institutions and the health system in general. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also not prepared any legislation that would help improve the quality of health services and reduce waiting periods. Optimisation in health care, quality health system and system improvements were also promised by Milojka Kolar Celarc in her candidacy presentation for the Minister, and it is also recorded in the coalition agreement, which is obviously just paper. Only working groups for each area are established, strategies are written and adopted, analyses are produced. However, we have not yet seen the promised systemic solutions and changes. One of the indicators that things do not change in a positive direction is the waiting period. According to the National Institute of Public Health on Day 1. 1. 2016, we find a total of 17 000 372 such patients waiting above the permissible waiting period, which means 12.83% waiting more than in the same period of the previous year. During the statements made by the hospital representatives, we were also able to hear that they are afraid that it is a matter of exhaustion of health care based on the pattern of exhaustion in the economy. Above the 19th urgent meeting of the Health Committee, on 26 February 2016, it was stated by the various health representatives that Slovenian health care is facing an increased level of corruption, as confirmed by the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, who said that the PKK is very involved in the emergence of corruption in health. It noted that the lowest possible level of corruption is that there is no intermediary between the manufacturer and the buyer or that there is only an official domestic supplier between them. It is clear from certain sources that in January 2012 until September 2013 the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre used a circus of 4 million EUR 250 000 for a little more than 5,500 cords. If we decided to buy from a foreign supplier, we would pay around 970,000 euros for the same amount. So there's been a four-and-a-half overpayment for the purchase of cords. This raises the question of why institutions carrying out health activities in the field of secondary and tertiary activities in the Republic of Slovenia have not decided to purchase which would allow lower costs. The prices of vascular resistors, although partly decreased in 2014, remain high above the European average. Only one tenderer shall appear at the invitation to tender. Tenders shall, as a rule, be hidden from foreign tenderers and shall not be invited to submit tenders. The Commission has carried out extensive work and an essential finding is made on the allegations of crimes against the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana mag. Simona Vrhunc and the director of UKC Maribor Dr. Gregor Pivc. The Investigative Commission found that there were suspicions and indications of the crimes of the responsible persons also within the companies selling vascular resistances on the Slovenian market. The Slovenian public health authorities are expected to allow, in cooperation with individual responsible persons in companies, the possible illegal alienation of tax money through the purchase of vascular support, which is expected to be overestimated in relation to the European market. In doing so, individual responsible persons, both on the part of public health institutions and economic companies, could be able to indicate that the law in force in the field of public procurement in the Republic of Slovenia is not respected and therefore individual responsible persons may be liable for possible criminal offences. The Commission of Inquiry also reached similar conclusions to that of the KPK in its report on the subject. On a related matter, but on a broader procurement scale, the Court of Auditors carried out an audit in UKC Ljubljana on 31 January 2018 and issued an audit report on the regularity of operations of UKC Ljubljana and gave a negative opinion as it found significant infringements of the Public Procurement Act, it issued a negative opinion. When ordering medical material and medical equipment UKC Ljubljana did not select a UKC Ljubljana medical material supplier of EUR 69 million 443 000 786 almost EUR 70 million and a supplier of medical equipment of EUR 121 000 915 did not choose on the basis of previous procurement procedures. Four procurement procedures totalling EUR 318 thousand 497 found violations of the Public Procurement Act. In the context of the mid-term report adopted at the 35th regular meeting of the National Assembly on 22 November 2017, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted general conclusions based on the revised material to the individual witnesses and the confrontation of witnesses. It follows from the general findings that the individual responsible persons and employees in UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor and Celje General Hospital are in breach of the principles of transparent public procurement, and that corrupt acts of bribery should also occur. There is a suspicion that UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor are responsible for damaging public funds and operating illegally and illegally in the years 2007 to 2016. However, between 2007 and 2014, public procurement was to be prepared and implemented, which did not follow the basic principles of public procurement and acted unlawfully and repeatedly violated the law on public procurement. From the above seven criminal charges have been lodged for individual persons. The current Minister, despite the well-known facts brought to the attention of the Commission of Inquiry, has already carried out investigations, known facts in the context of internal hospital audits, warnings at meetings of the Committee on Health of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and plenary meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia from the decision-making cycle in 2014 to 2016 and has not subsequently excluded individuals for whom the Commission of Inquiry has issued a statement of suspicions of offences from positions allowing for business decisions or decisions on public calls. In order to take place in the event of the appointment of individuals who are in the proceedings before the law enforcement authorities to the decision-making centres for the violation of the integrity of institutions and the confidence of the people in these institutions, the current Minister Klemenčič drew attention to the testimony. The conclusions are that the responsibility for individual irregularities already described in the interim report and later in the context of additional investigations carried out at the time of the adoption of the interim report, on the part of the management of public health institutions, on the members of the Councils of Public Health Institutions and within the Councils of Public Health Institutions should be exercised by the supervisory function and, last but not least, by the Ministry of Health. In all cases, competent authorities and subsidiaries in the Republic of Slovenia could identify both objective and subjective responsibility. If we want to take a step forward in Slovenia in this area too, it is necessary for all the crooks who stole the state budget and collected the money for all the patients to give the necessary name and surname to who they are, only then will we seriously face corruption when we have the names and surnames in front of us, who are these people? In New Slovenia, we will support the draft report.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u9	The text is by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. The health situation is a typical example of systemic corruption. It is most evident in waiting types, corrupt public procurement and, of course, hospital management. The report just before us deals with the last two segments. The management of hospitals is in the responsibility of the one who is the head of the institution. He is responsible for conflicts of interest, for a competitive clause, for the financial situation and for the reputation of the institution. And all of this was neglected. Of course, we are also interested in the responsibility of the government and the role of the media. It's the government that's recruiting and proposing laws. And the media are the fourth branch of power to oversee everything. And it's kept it all a secret. If we analyze the report, we see that none of the politicians exerted pressure on those who run the institution, because no one directly said they were under pressure. So the ones who ran the hospitals are responsible if there was no pressure. It is typical to avoid laws and to interpret regulations and to interpret them on the basis of some legal opinions paid and ordered. Of course, ordering, such as it was, is only the top of the iceberg, it is one small segment that has been addressed in this report. Even more so, the money was used to rent equipment and services, which we have not investigated at all. Then, advisory contracts, how much is hidden in the advisory contracts and what has really been done and, of course, donations. All of this is also hidden through education, which I have repeatedly pointed out is happening in other sectors, such as the judiciary and others. If we look at the responsibility of the criminal, of course, we support that all documentation is transmitted to both the police and the prosecution. Financial and compensation responsibility to include other financial institutions in addition to the Court of Auditors to examine the flow of money, where it went and how that money was returned to private pockets. And of course, a positional responsibility where in a good country we advocate that those who have damaged state property be prevented from performing public functions. This is the positional responsibility that is still important, and it has denied and, of course, additional protection for those who are willing to say something. This system has failed, too. If I finally focus on political responsibility, the responsibility of governments for staffing and the situation in the sector. I say that's enough of this corruption and that this has to be cut. How? One - with a career system, with real staff who have a career and references and take responsibility. Secondly, the functioning of financial institutions to follow financial flows, to see where these financial flows are going, not to happen, as was the case with alleged money laundering from Iran through Slovenia and institutions did not react, and of course the professional operation of the media, the fourth branches of government, which must also be cleaned within themselves in the first step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u12	Respectable. Each Commission of Inquiry must act objectively and maintain a high level of political neutrality in the role of the highest investigating authority to detect political responsibility. Especially if the investigation committee investigates the practices and actions that have taken place since the years of those parties and the actions that today raise the public awareness of health problems and are partly responsible for them. But let's go back to the beginning of 2016. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we have requested the appointment of an investigative commission, which was submitted by three parliamentary parties with a clear intention to achieve a concrete epilogue of this story, in order to reveal the political responsibility of those who have allowed open doors to a stable practice for which none of the responsible have responded for many years. Abuses in the Slovenian health system in the area of the purchase and sale of venous braces have been noted by the media prior to the establishment of the parliamentary commission, this is in 2012. After that, four years later, research journalism revealed the unimaginable dimensions of the problem. From the large differences in the prices of vein support that occurred during the government of Alenka Bratušek, various public procurement practices in Slovenian hospitals in previous, right and left governments, and until the disclosure of high fees, a reckless selection of the most expensive products that did not necessarily provide the highest standards. The work of the Commission of Inquiry was largely brought to the attention of the National Assembly as early as November last year, when the essential findings and conclusions of the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry were adopted. Unlike ordinary practice and broad support, the latter were adopted with much lower support among Members, for not half of all MPs in the DZ voted against by 22 Members. Why such low support for conclusions is, of course, unclear. However, I believe that those who have not supported the findings or conclusions have not done so in order to protect the interests of certain persons involved in these acts. I myself, despite the express concern and clear warnings that there is still much work to be done in the area of political responsibility, supported the interim report, after several coalition members' coordination with the President, however. The invitation to tender proved to be a complete failure, as confirmed by a number of statements made by the Witnesses. Therefore, there was a suspicion that individual public procurements were scrapping, allowing for the purchase of vascular support via purchase orders at a much higher price. So, contrary to the legislation in force, they are therefore primarily responsible for the management of public institutions. Today, after 54 sessions and 51 witnesses interviewed and two witnesses before us, we have a final report, the main message of which is that the current Minister of Health is responsible for overpayments of the venous braces that have reached its peak in the time of another government. So, the minister who did not perform her duties in those years. If we add to this the fact that the price of the vascular resistance had fallen already in 2014, before the beginning of this government's term of office and had then only been reduced, then we can rightly ask ourselves where this extensive work had gone, which was done to prepare this final report. The President of the Commission of Inquiry went even further in his press statements. In order to make it easier for us to imagine the address and opening statement in the Reporter of 22 March 2018. I quote: “Minister Kolar Celarcheva is personally responsible for the situation. Last week, the Parliamentary Commission, which investigated the purchase and supply of vein support in Slovenian health institutions, adopted a final report identifying Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc as subjectively responsible.” (end of quote) Of course, there is a logical question as to how the current Minister may be responsible for the actions that took place in the years preceding the government's appearance. It also raises the question of how we can talk about subjective responsibility if the Minister was not associated with the case at the time. Since February 2012, Tomaž Gantar has served as Minister of Health, first during the period of Janez Janša's one-year government, even during the Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. He mentioned, in his testimony, that there was a discussion in the Health Council of overpayment of material, including vascular resistors, particularly at the initiative of some doctors, and no action had been taken in this regard. Whether or not to recognise this, the fact is that the Government has taken this step forward in the field of transparent public procurement through common public procurement, which is one of the most important measures to combat corruption. In 2017, the Minister appointed an expert committee to develop professional standards with appropriate technical descriptions, which vessels should be used in the healthcare system. In this way, the basis for a total public procurement of 7,000 vein braces was established. However, what is most important for the subject matter of an investigation by the Commission of Inquiry is that the highest price in the invitation to tender has been set at the highest price for vascular resistance. Unfortunately, the tender failed because all suppliers offered a higher price. However, a member of the appointment of Dr. Night's expert commission said at a press conference following the failure of a joint invitation to tender for vascular resistors that he had found that the matter was positive and probably historic for Slovenia. In addition to this, we were also concerned over the period following the interim report, and the Commission received, in addition to the response of some of the companies included in the report, an anonymous letter which pointed out that the report was full of suspicions and direct lies that some of the witnesses were at least partially selected according to the political key. After reading the draft final report, it became clear that some new common conclusions could not be reached. In doing so, I would like to say that we cannot support findings for which we do not have sufficient evidence, indications, non-professional and incomprehensible findings, the President's subjective assessment of the responsibility of individual holders of public functions or ministers, the subjective summaries of certain witnesses, some of the content included in the final report, is not related to the subject matter of the investigation. However, all of this relates to the findings following the adoption of the interim report, the final report proposes a single decision imposing on the National Assembly to forward the documentation obtained to the National Investigation Office and the specialised State Prosecutor's Office. The Commission of Inquiry has already sent records and a magnetogram of evidence to the National Investigation Office on the basis of the decision already adopted, and criminals have also been informed of the documentation in the National Assembly, regardless, we will confirm the proposed decision in the Group. In conclusion, I will say this as many times as we point out, we do not have any intention in the Modern Centre Party, and even less reason to disclose bad practices in any way to impede, protect the interest of no one, and at least the one that would have been involved in any kind of corruption in both health care and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u13	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Fellow Members, a nice greeting, and a nice greeting, I also assume that you are students on the balcony, well greeted. See, the work of the Investigative Commission on Vulnerable Restraints has exposed all the misery of Slovenian health care in the area of material acquisition and has also exposed quasi efforts for public health and patients. The interim report and the final report we are considering today have highlighted the key problems of Slovenian health care, the flow of money and the carelessness of the governing structure and some of the leading public health institutions. We have warned about all these issues in the Slovenian Democratic Party since the beginning, in addition to several requests for extraordinary meetings on this subject, we have also submitted two interpretations against Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, in which we have received inactive work in the field of persecution and the restriction of health corruption. Of course, interpellation of the coalition or at least part of the coalition, I am thinking of the SD and Desus you did not support, but today from the mouth of some Members of this coalition they are praised that they have been for a long time or that you have for a long time warned of the incompetence of the Minister and of her work and even that you have demanded her resignation. Well, let's take a little fresh look at the work of this investigative commission up to the mid-term report that we discussed in November 2017. Thus, in 2016, an Investigative Commission was set up on our initiative in the field of vascular resistance. During this time of her work, the assumptions about corruption in Slovenian health care have only been confirmed. On the basis of the documents collected in the proceedings and on the basis of witness statements in the interim report, the Commission found that the vascular resistance in Slovenia was expected to be approximately 5 times higher in relation to known data from abroad in 2013-2014, according to the price of producers on the foreign market. The Investigative Commission also concluded in the interim report that there is a suspicion that the tendering by the contracting authority should have been arranged, that the suppliers responsible should have personally called on them to apply for certain tenders, that suppliers, through the Chief of Procurement Service, had influenced the later decision of the Calling Commission, that cartel arrangements should have been negotiated and that there had also been a breach of contractual quantities or value under the Public Procurement Act. Furthermore, the Commission of Inquiry found that there is a suspicion that suppliers to responsible persons in certain hospitals, in addition to paying for education, should also cover the costs of different travels and holidays for their family members. In some cases, it is also suspected that suppliers should hand over various material goods or even direct money to the bank accounts of the private companies of these doctors. In some cases, however, there is suspicion, beware, there is a suspicion that money should be served by suppliers on hand. The Commission of Inquiry found that the most frequent infringements occurred in the company Mark Medical d.o.o., which is also a supplier of vein support for the Slovenian market. The supply by Mark Medical d.o.o. of vein-resistance supplies is expected to be a 50 % share in UKC Ljubljana between 2006 and 2016. The largest share of sales in UKC Ljubljana reached this company in 2009, namely a 91 % share, a 91 % share. In the course of the operation of Mark Medical d. o. o., based in Sežana, the financial assets of this company, which it also obtained from the sale of medical material, are indirectly transferred to Vega Finanz’s bank account in Luxembourg. Although they did not want to have witnesses before the commission of inquiry, they were not supposed to be able to answer the question as to who owns Vega Finanz. The answer to this question is particularly important in terms of the possible financing of the company and individuals in Slovenia, or in terms of possible and possible other transactions to bank accounts in Slovenia. However, the President of the Board of Inquiry Kb1909 said that Vega Finanz was to recapitalise the company in Italy with its money. The owner of Kb1909 also owns Mladino d. d. The President of the Board and the Supervisory Board are also on the board of Kb1909. It's not a coincidence. On the basis of the testimony before the commission of inquiry, it is clear that there is a suspicion that Kb1909 is supposed to purchase the share of Mladina d. d. just when Mark Medical recorded the biggest jump in his income. According to the testimony of individual witnesses, so publicly, without the presence of the public, the testimony of hidden witnesses and the examination of the material examined, the investigative commission, in the interim report, proposed a declaration of offences against individual individuals under several articles of the Penal Code, namely, Dark Zorman, Matjaž Bunca, Vojko Kanič, Dragan Kovacič, mag. Simon the High and Gregor the Beer. The Commission also proposed in its interim report that the competent authorities investigate the possible suspicions recorded in the report for individual companies such as Mark Medical, Bormia, Vasc-Med, Animus, Castor, Salus and KB1909. However, the conclusions adopted by Members at the time of the adoption of the interim report were that this interim report should be submitted to the National Investigation Office, the Specialized State Prosecutor's Office, the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Agency for the Protection of Competition, the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures and the Court of Auditors. And all these conclusions were realized. Now, however, the Special Prosecutor's Office and the National Investigation Office are on the move to investigate, dismiss or file criminal charges. So much for this interim report we adopted in November 2017. Well, today we have a final report, which covers the interim report and the work done from the adoption of the interim report to today. This report also covers the testimony of the former and current Minister of Health and the testimony of the directors and presidents of individual institutions. The Commission of Inquiry notes in this second part, on the basis of the testimony, that there is also an irregularity in the Slovenian health system in ordering medical material in the sense of conscious - conscious - repeated - violation of the Public Procurement Act. This should also involve concrete corruption and damage to public funds. However, the Commission notes with concern that, despite the individual findings of the institutions, the responsibility of individual holders of public functions or the taking of responsibility, both subjective and objective, should not be determined. Since 2013, they have also been involved in irregularities in the field covered and investigated by the Commission of Inquiry at the National Investigation Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. And the result of their five - year work is unknown or missing. At the end of 2015, the National Investigation Office sent a report to the Special Prosecutor's Office that the investigators of the National Investigation Office did not detect any criminal offences. The re-investigation was requested by the State Prosecutor in the first half of 2016. The National Investigation Office has not carried out a more detailed investigation in any way. This raises a reasonable question as to what is the cause of this, whether it is a shortage of personnel or whether it is a lack of knowledge or knowledge of this matter or whether there is a lack of interest in an in-depth investigation. The Commission of Inquiry has collected and provided sufficient quality material and evidence to help with a faster investigation. Of course, the National Investigation Office will also have to extend the investigation to cooperation with foreign law enforcement authorities. The flow of money from Slovenian hospitals through Slovenian suppliers to enterprises abroad and from them back to Slovenia will be necessary or necessary. However, the specialised state prosecutor's office, despite the fact that, in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, should allow the investigating committee access to the documentation they have at their disposal to do so. They were of the opinion that the transfer of certain documents could jeopardise the investigation procedure under the Special Prosecutor's Office. You could call that a very mild, good excuse. It is also interesting that the Agency for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the work of the Commission of Inquiry and the interim report transmitted, did not detect sufficiently high levels of possible irregularities in order to begin collecting evidence or by investigating. In fact, the Director of the Competition Protection Agency, on the question of the President of the Investigative Commission or the Agency, according to the investigative commission's local report, either has initiated any proceedings or has not agreed “no”. That no specific procedures had been initiated, he mentioned that because the agency introduced the procedure only when they were convinced that all that someone had said was true. I don't know how they're gonna make sure of what's real or what's not real, unless, for example, the documents of the commission of inquiry that they might not have asked for. However, the President of the Court of Auditors said that the Commission of Inquiry had done a great deal of work. The local report they received helped the Court of Auditors to highlight certain interactions and is also based on the audit report issued by the Court of Auditors for UKC Ljubljana. All of these witnesses, which I have just mentioned or these witnesses to the institution, have been in the same hearing as in the fact that systemic changes are needed. If I stop to be responsible for the ministers of health. In most cases, all ministers have stressed that greater responsibility for irregularities in public health institutions on the part of the management of the procurement services and members of the boards of institutions. The majority of ministers also pointed out that different interests and lobbying should be strongly present in health care, which should prevent the normal development of the Slovenian health system and should also prevent the adoption of system laws. Pressures are supposed to be in terms of managing the situation. But who are these people who issue pressure to the Commission failed to find out or the Commission did not get an answer. It was interesting, however, to accompany the testimony of the Minister of Health when she left. In her testimony, she first stated that it was the task of this Government to defend the zero level of corruption specifically in the field of public health. The Minister started some activities immediately after the term of office, but these activities were not carried out in the right areas. Of course, before the investigative commission, the Minister testified a little confused, for example, that the prices of the ventricles fell during her term of office, due to her systemic measures, which, of course, became complicated in her testimony when she found that the prices of the ventricles fell or fell in 2014, she said before her term of office. But we all expected the Minister to react or react immediately during the hearings, but she did not, and so the investigative committee's instead proposal that Minister Kolar be subjectively responsible, she knew, and she did nothing. In view of all the above, the Commission concludes that the objective political responsibility for the non-admission of health legislation to the Health Ministers over the entire period covered by the Commission of Inquiry is to be subjective to the current Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to suspend the measures to be taken towards the removal of individuals for whom the Commission of Inquiry has made a statement of suspicions of crimes from situations which, of course, enable business decisions or decisions to be taken in public calls. To ensure that the RS Competition Agency does not act in accordance with the law and in the past should not do enough to determine the restriction of competition and domination by certain Slovenian suppliers of vein support and multinationals. Next. The Commission of Inquiry found that all three branches of government were being carried out and proposed to hold a debate and to prepare possible legislative changes. [[…]] Next. In view of the proposed material, and entirely by the witnesses interviewed, the Commission proposes that the competent authorities investigate the suspicions of a criminal offence in the service of a criminal offence, the taking of bribes for Harry Furlan, the head of the specialised state prosecution, the criminal offence of bribery for Borut Miklavčič and the criminal offence of damaging public funds and the work of the bride in the service of Dr. Peter Weissensteiner. At the end of the investigation, the Commission also proposed that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, following its consideration of the final report, adopt or order the National Assembly of Inquiry to order the Commission of Inquiry to submit to the National Investigation Office and the specialised State Prosecutor all the documentation it obtained during the parliamentary investigation, with the exception of the documentation it received on the basis of the court orders. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have today tabled an amendment to this report to investigate the very suspicions of the crime of the guilty confession of Janez Zemlaric. An explanation of why and why this amendment had already been submitted in its opening position by a colleague of Jelka. I'd say this investigative committee has done a lot of work. The work that the institutions and the authorities responsible for this should have done long ago has not been done or has failed. The final report is based on witness statements and documents, and there is hope that something will happen. Of course, this depends largely on whether we accept this report today or not. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the final report with the key findings and we will also support the amendment and the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u15	The word is given by the Desus Group, a magi for her. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Desus Group will support the final report on the parliamentary investigation carried out in the area of the identification of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the area of sales and purchase of vascular restraints and both additional final reports in this area. The investigation was determined on 30 March 2016 in view of the suspicion that the procedures and transactions were conducted in a non-economic and non-transparent manner in order to produce the consequences of such behaviour and the suspicion of the presence of health corruption in the field of sales and supply of vascular support. The investigation focused on the period from 1. January 2003 until the date of the parliamentary investigation. Following the oral report adopted, the Commission of Inquiry heard 16 more witnesses. So together 51 Witnesses were interviewed, and two more Witnesses were confronted. The Commission of Inquiry also carried out all the conclusions adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of adoption of the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry. The excessive burden of Members working towards the end of the mandate has caused some minor problems with the conclusion, but by improving the coordination of the meetings of the Commission of Inquiry, this has only been resolved, so that the Commission of Inquiry has successfully completed the investigation despite the early resignation of the Government on 14 March this year. The excuses of those who seek not to adopt the report are self-explanatory. At the very beginning of the work of the Commission of Inquiry, the exchange of information and documentation was initiated in cooperation between the Commission of Inquiry and the state institutions responsible for the detection and prosecution of corruption. These institutions are a national investigation office, a specialised state prosecutor's office and a commission to prevent corruption. However, cooperation between those mentioned has taken place in the end, but we can see that the Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly has already done the work they should be doing on the basis of the same anonymity for this purpose by the competent institutions. These, in particular, met extensively, exchanged information and often referred to their limitations under their jurisdiction. However, the Members of this institution did not submit the necessary amendments to the legislation so that the restrictions to which they referred would not be in the future. So far, almost no significant achievement of their work in the field of health corruption has been known. It is concerned that both the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and the National Investigation Office have investigated the area in question, but so far they have found almost no suspicion of crime. They had some discussions with some doctors, buyers, and suppliers and concluded that there were no irregularities. We can even conclude that the suspects identified by the commission of inquiry by the suspicions of corruption were largely neither treated nor interrogated by these institutions. We can therefore ask ourselves how the fact that we have a bunch of official institutions in Slovenia that should prosecute crime and corruption cannot even achieve the level of investigation of their cases, as the group of Members, amateurs and our investigative colleagues of the National Assembly has discovered in this area. The supervisory authorities and administration bodies of the system at state level, at the Ministry of Health and in public health institutions were also denied. The fact is that official investigative institutions and law enforcement authorities, as well as those responsible in public institutions and ministries, have for decades not taken appropriate steps to put serious obstacles to the corruption of many health corruption actors. In order to ensure the effective functioning of law enforcement authorities, supervisory authorities and management bodies in public health institutions and the competent ministry, some witnesses before the commission of inquiry have demonstrated their innocence by referring to the previously empty corruption proceeds of the Slovenian official institutions responsible for detecting and prosecuting corruption. The investigation also showed that the short statutory limitation period was a breach of public procurement procedures. We would also like to draw attention to the specificity of our penal code, which allows some unusual transactions to be punished only if they are proved by slander, which is almost impossible to prove. The obligation to prove intent has thus become a legal instrument that effectively protects those who violate laws. The mass production of new laws, which are produced by officials of ministries as under the current lane, especially before each election, as well as by some Members, can be well hidden in laws, even from those Members who would never knowingly support such laws. In order to avoid the adoption of harmful laws, we believe in the Desus Group that the number of laws adopted by the National Assembly should be severely limited. It should also limit the possibility of enacting laws following an urgent and shorter procedure and during extraordinary meetings, as the latter also represent important corruption risks. These laws are usually accompanied by completely imprecise procedures for the preparation of legislative proposals, mostly without adequate public treatment and cooperation of the professional and lay public. There is also a great possibility of lobbying the content of the laws, even when it comes to the parliamentary laws that they put before the elections. The Desus Group requests that the declaration of zero level of corruption finally be transformed into practice. Corruption has bad consequences for society as a whole, having a negative impact on health, social, legislative, political and economic aspects of social development. We undermine confidence in public health, state institutions and the rule of law. It reduces the integrity of society as a whole and the importance of integrity as a social value. It reduces the budget of countries and local communities in favour of the private interests of the perpetrators of corruption. It unlawfully places other citizens in an unequal position and restricts them in the exercise of their fundamental rights. It causes inefficiencies in administrative, judicial, police procedures related to public procurement, employment and the like. The consequences of health corruption are also less efficient use of public funds for treatment purposes. It causes a lack of public funds for treatment, insufficient public health services and too long a waiting period, affecting poor human health and less quality of life for citizens and citizens. Some of the leading individual institutions, some doctors, surgeons who worked in public health institutions as public servants, and others also worked in their essays, parts, private societies and or operating in other countries at the same time. Although the harmful nature of medical work has been known for a long time, this is the sitting of doctors of public servants at the same time in public and private health, which, according to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, raises corruption risks, the Minister of Health did not want to or could not stop these harmful practices. Moreover, at the hearing before the Commission of Inquiry, she considered that, while as Minister, she was responsible for preventing corruption risks, but that corruption was only blamed on health institutions, and that appropriate changes were made to prevent corruption systematically, but did not. In the Desus Group, we warned the competent minister several times about the corruption risks, as a result of the health care system of doctors, but there were no changes. We hope that the next government will carry out the task that the Minister of the Modern Centre Party, Milojka Kolar Celarc, did not know or wanted to carry out, despite this political party's different commitment to the coalition treaty. We also heard witnesses confessing their contacts with suppliers. One of the witnesses even warned the competent person at UKC Ljubljana of any conflict of interest, and because of his contacts with a particular manufacturer, he remained a member of the expert selection committee in one of the contested tendering procedures. Some public servants, mostly doctors, should be compensated by suppliers in different ways, expensive luxury trips for them and or for their neighbors, with money per hand, education and the like. If public health institutions were to put in place controls, take care of work and train healthcare professionals in a fair manner, hospitals could buy life support and or other medical devices at a significantly lower price, and the overpaid money could remain for the treatment of people and for the reduction of waiting types. The consequences of corruption were therefore felt by people in the form of long-term waiting types and poorer health. When we read the report, we can ask how it is possible that there are still a number of conflicts of interest in the public health system, although many individuals and the Commission have been alerting us for many years to the corruption risks posed by such conflicts of interest. Interconnection between public and private and the absence of internal controls, rules and controls has once again proved to be a possible breeding ground for corruption risks. While trusting in people is both encouraging and positive, it is important to take care of controls and measures to prevent corruption risks in particular. Experience has shown that there are people in responsible places in the public sector who are greedy, egotistical, inclined to seek privileges or abuse the health system for private benefit. It seems that no one has learned anything from past medical affairs or that they do not want to learn. Most of what the Commission of Inquiry has discovered could be prevented by proper organisation of work, by monitoring, by preventing conflicts of interest and by immediate suspensions from the responsible places of those who prove that they are not trustworthy. The investigation found that there was a suspicion that some responsible in UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor would harm public resources, act illegally and illegally in 2007 and that their actions would indicate a suspicion of corruption. There is a suspicion that certain suppliers of vascular resistors have made it possible for them to have a dominant position on the market. In 2007-2014, public procurement contracts were to be drawn up and implemented, which did not follow the procurement rules, acted unlawfully and repeatedly violated the public procurement law. There is also a suspicion of cartel negotiation between suppliers of vein resistors in Slovenia. The Investigative Commission has identified and reported the suspicions of a number of offences due to the unjustified use of foreign property, offences of fraud, offences of acceptance of gifts, offences of tax evasion, offences of damage to public funds, offences of non-disclosure in the service, offences of taking bribes and offences of guilty testimony or confession, offences of abuse of official status or official rights, and abuses of position or confidence in economic activities. The bank secrecy, business secrecy and internal marking, while allowing for the concealment of part of the results of the Commission of Inquiry from the public, are available to the competent authorities, as are the results made available to members of the National Assembly under certain conditions. I hope that the documents obtained will allow further investigations by the competent authorities and institutions, which, in the event of sufficient evidence, will be able to initiate further proceedings against the persons for whom we have decided in the commission of inquiry to notify the competent authorities of the existence of suspected offences. The Investigative Commission has proposed to the National Assembly a number of conclusions to help reduce future corruption risks in the health sector, so we will support them in the Desus Group in a united manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, following a debate between the Members and Members on the final report, the essential findings and on the proposal for a decision and amendment by the SDS Group of Members to the draft decision. For the first time, the representative of the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mrs Jelka Godec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to thank all the members of the committee of inquiry for their proper work, including for presenting their views today, I would like to thank you, of course, for not having succeeded before, even the professional services, which have also contributed greatly to this final report. However, it is clear from the views of the members of the groups that this opposition to the final report itself, the findings of the commission of inquiry, the work itself and so on, is now on the part of the Left side of the interim report, and it has been said, of course, that they will not cooperate at all times, that my proposal, which is not official now, but I am also expressing it to the President here, but to the next President of the National Assembly, that such members are simply not taken into account or excluded after a few missing meetings, because it is non-productive and also, it is also considered to be the end of the conclusion of the Commission itself, but, of course, this is the decision of each investigative member or of the parliamentary group, namely their legitimate opinion or decision. However, once again, I point out that this can also lead to incontrovertible meetings. Now, of course, in Levi, I would expect to see what kind of shouting it is against this investigative commission and, against the findings on the other hand, their campaign against corruption, livestock and so on, so that they might read these things a little bit more, a little bit more, and then we could legitimately discuss how they talk about some business reports that I don't know if they have read them or the findings that are written in their business reports, let's say the business report Mark Medical Slovenia and Italy, then KB and also the Youth end of the day. Now, to say that you are fighting adversarial and anti-corruption, you are pressing against the investigative commission in the sense that it is a political account. Here, of course, also by SMC and Mrs Verveg, who said that there were some witnesses who were Czech that said in anonymity that they were politically selected. [[…]] I'd like to ask for evidence that these are politically selected witnesses. In fact, Mrs Vervega's colleague was present at all the meetings where the decisions will be voted on. She even proposed certain witnesses herself, and if we were to act politically, then, frankly, tell everyone here in public, then if the SDS were to act politically on an investigative committee, Mr Ferjanc and Mr Pivec, who were or were members of the SDS, would not be called. So, it's not my fault if they were heads of public health institutions and ministers from this political option and we had to question them after this or they testified because they were directors because they were buyers because they were doctors. We have called everyone, you know, or in our conclusions, we have also had a debate on whether to call ministers who have been fully responsible, so this four years or four years has hardly been the case, or even those who have been v.d. or were performers of duty, as was Mrs Bratuškov's. [[…]] So we have given everything and now I am asking you here for proof that this parliamentary commission of inquiry has acted politically. Evidence. Because what we have been researching or witnessing, even on the basis of an anonymity that the NPU has since 2014, and the SDT, we have been checking with documents. All these allegations of suspicions of crime, all of these proposals, everything that is recorded in the report, both in this open and in the additional and other additional, which is secret or internal, elephants on the basis of documents and testimonies. Even if it was an anonymous one, it was checked. Therefore, I ask once again evidence that none of any of the public figures responsible for public procurement was put in the conclusion as a witness because of the political functioning of the commission of inquiry. They were all in there. Until the mid-term report, there was no problem with anything, and then things began to get tougher, mainly by the largest coalition party. One of these issues was, for example, now that in 2012 high prices in the Republic of Slovenia were already to be pointed out. I'm asking you for proof. Where, when, who said it publicly? Because the first warnings came in mid-2013, after the Polish supplier started supplying vascular support at three times lower prices in Slovenia in early 2013. In 2013, the first articles were in Finance and Portal Plus and then the research journalists who did a great deal of work, I agree, November 2016 with that show that revealed these things. [[Incomprehensible]] Therefore, please do not deceive members of the commission who have always been with you with such statements. Tell me in particular, which, when in 2012, because you were aiming at the second government of Janez Janša, tell me, let me prove it. I can prove to you with the articles in 2013, anonymously signed in November 2013, with the final report of the KPK, which received this in hand, I think 8. 11. 2013 So it all goes to 2013, end of 2013 and then decommissioning. Yes, colleague Gantar, then minister, said that they had a health council or that they discussed these large overpaid venous braces, and it is not true that nothing happened. That's not true. This doctor who warned there is Dr. Night, yes. And it's not true that nothing happened. This Dr. Night was then on the committee that achieved [[?]] UKC Ljubljana to lower prices which reached the lowest prices in the Republic of Slovenia for vascular resistors. However, what, nothing happened in UKC Maribor and Celje which did not lower prices. They didn't lower them. In Ljubljana Titan 400, in Maribor 900 or a thousand 200. And the Minister says, because of my systemic solutions, the ventricles have fallen. Well, run away, now. At the beginning of 2014, this Minister had not yet been to the Government. It shows a graph in which it misleads people, and then when you tell it, now read when it came down, and it says, in early 2014. Come on, when you talk about some things, you know that these are sensitive things, people have allegations of crimes, we've made proposals to investigate these institutions, and we need to talk to the documents in the back. And what you're saying, Mrs. Vervega, I would really ask you to tell me, because then I missed something. I'm surprised you didn't say that earlier. The interim report was supported by the SMC, but after apparently someone had read it a little bit more in the SMC, it was already at the very meeting of the National Assembly of mirages, because you did not do a good job, said some in the hallway, you were not a guard dog that didn't go any further. Now, as far as the anonymities we received after the interim report are concerned, it's interesting that after the interim report, look, I'll show it to you. One anonymous woman came in my name, a handwritten envelope that says exactly what Mrs Vervega said we did not hear Mr Grucan. I don't know, but you were watching. We interviewed Grucan. Then it says we didn't question Mr. Feryan. We interrogated him. Then it says we're not Peter Weissensteiner. We interrogated him. It says here we're not Mr. Yukic, who I think was Director Tommy F. E. We interviewed the principal. We had Mrs Koželjevo inside as a witness, also from Nova Gorica. I have said that we are not able to reach the UKC Maribor, Ljubljana, which was also the largest user, more than 3 000 500 vein braces per year, against the like of Nova Gorica, which has 200. Hence, certain Witnesses did not come to the fore, but at any time, any member of the congregation could say that date. It wasn't there. It wasn't there. In this anonymity, which is signed by hand, and if I go down to the secure room right now for UKC Ljubljana, I'll tell you exactly who wrote it, I'll tell you exactly who wrote it. And inside insults, interestingly, just for me as president, and members of you were all looking away. But I didn't answer these things, but I wrote the article publicly because interestingly, they're inside, the anonymous person is public, look. You know why? Since this anonymity has been sent to members of the Parliamentary Commission, to the President of the National Assembly, to the President of the Government and to the Minister, to the President of the State, to the Constitutional Judges, to the Slovenian public, to the voters, to the journalists, you cannot trust the Constitutional Judges. Now I'm wondering who had an interest in sending this to the Constitutional Judges. The one who went to the Constitutional Court that we didn't get the paperwork from his companies. You can read who it is in the report. This is Dr. Bunc, Head of the Departmental Laboratory in Ljubljana, where colleagues were surprised when we began to draw out his companies, esps, society, association and so on. And since there were some indications, documents, travel orders, where it indicated that Mr Bunc had received it, I also asked in public, but he went on some trip or education, I apologize, the travel order was from UKC Ljubljana and the bill was paid in the back of the hotel, and it is written above that Bunc paid the cardiology of Espe. And I was just wondering if these things were standing or possible, there was a double payment, anyway, a purely innocent thing, but because the KPK also found that the problem was that doctors have espionage and associations, that money comes from the other side. And we have asked the gentleman or he, as the legal representative of these companies, if he can hand over the documentation, but only travel and donations, nothing else. Mr Buntz went to the Supreme Court, to the Constitutional Court, not to hand it over. He was rejected by the Supreme Court twice, I think the county, supremely, all of which were rejected, stopped at the Constitutional Court, where I asked several times if they could expedite the case because an investigative commission is running. Well, after a few months, I think three, four, have informed me that the matter is ongoing and that it will be resolved when it is resolved. And this anonymous woman went to the Constitutional Court. I don't know who'd be interested. I don't know, Dr. Zorman, Mr. Uranus, who? I mean, that's the kind of question you're asking. And in this anonymity, only two doctors were blacked out, no one else, Dr. Blaž Antavalje and Dr. Marko Noč, two who made clear before the commission of inquiry that it was overpayments, that it was also possible for corruption. These two are despicable if one is currently on the run abroad, Mr. Antavalje, who was walking through Ljubljana on Twitter and Facebook on the day I got it, and I don't know where it is, and I don't know where it is in the criminal investigation - I don't know - Dr. Night, too, that he's in the investigation and so on. Only two doctors were blacked out, no one else. And indications of who else we should have and who we didn't hear. So, all with one purpose - perhaps, I don't know, I mean, such questions are then asked - the discreditation of the parliamentary investigative commission and its findings, with only one purpose. However, in order for all those who write such anonymities to try to prevent abuse in the Slovenian health system, or those identified by us, or those identified by the Court of Auditors, or by any other, but not, no, everyone bears responsibility, to each other. We've listened to the ministers who said, we're nothing to blame, they're all the board of directors and the board of directors. Only one said, no, like I said, it was - Mr. Miklavčič. He said: “As I told a member of the institute’s world, so it was. I set Mr. Verkhunc, yes," he said, "I am." And how? “Yes,” he said, “there was a call and we set it up.” He was the only one who said, "Yes, you can influence, and I influenced." The others also talked about the lobbying, the pressures, no one told the public what those pressures were, as Mrs Bratusek said, and they kept hearing about the pressures, and no one told the name or who it was. That's not what you're saying. They also said that they had written laws, and they stayed in the drawer because there was no political will, whether the elections had been held or had left before, in fact, in one case the President of the Government was not in favour. Earlier it was said, yes, one of the ministers could say, "I didn't know about the overpayment." Like I said at the beginning, every minister can't know about every account. But when it starts to escalate publicly, as it has in recent years, and the Minister does nothing, he does nothing in UKC Ljubljana and Maribor, ma, nothing! In four years, from 2014 to today, it replaces four directors and leaves this chaos in the UKC or even more. So, from Mr Vrhunc to the experiment with Mr Baricic, Mr Kopač and now Mr Šebeder, who, look out for information from the media, should even allow Mr Uranus to be the business director of the Pediatric Clinic, Mr Uranus, when now the sparrows are chirping about the fact that he really needs to be searched or examined because he was the head of the procurement service. And that's the prize? This is the prize for all where the Court of Auditors finds in two years, 2014 and 2015, 70 million past the public tender, and he says it is nothing! It's nothing! You also spoke of financial, such and different responsibilities. See, EUR 500, the judgment of the people, for half a million past the invitation to tender in UKC Ljubljana! 500 Euros! People are laughing. I get 500 euros when I'm speeding my car. And he pays and goes for half a million, passing public contracts, 500 euros. The hospital pays, too. And that's all the tax money, all of it. The Minister of Health, current Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, said on the investigative committee that vascular resistance is not important because it represents 0.75 per cent of all purchases and that it was never a priority to go to joint public procurement. Under pressure from the public, the media, the commission of inquiry, of course, etc., the matter was triggered and it went to a general public order, where it came to the fact that everyone offered higher prices, if you go to watch, if you recalculate, if only to Excel you gave the numbers, finding that the two suppliers literally agreed on 30 cents, they combined things, here I sign up, here you are, and we'll deal with it. But the Agency for the Protection of Competition in 15 days doesn't find out the cartel deal, okay, they don't have any evidence, we put them all on the table, the director says he knows that it's supposed to be a monopoly on Mark-Medical to find out from the media and our investigative commission, and he doesn't do anything. Nothing. We write to him that one of the suppliers' representatives said that two suppliers agreed, one sale in Ljubljana one in Maribor and they are not competing on a public invitation to tender and AVK finds nothing. For a treat, a terrible, sad treat, you will find that the Director of the Competition Agency, Mr Matos, does not even know what his legal powers are. He doesn't even know he can handle the procedure. He says the statute of limitations is 10 years. That's not true. Five years is a statute of limitations. But if a procedure is initiated, then ten years. So, look, it was obvious to me that I had just proposed or proposed the current Minister's subjective responsibility. From this point of view, too, that this minister is setting people up, those whom we have dealt with, to the leading positions, by Mr Klemenčič, the minister has told you that he would never do so, and that he has even warned about the government. Why? Because that's how you reverse the integrity of the institution, how people will look if, say, Mr. Uranus really gets the position of business director of the pediatric clinic. Aren't you ashamed of yourself? It's no shame that you set up such staff as directors who then do it in hospitals. And these are the excuses themselves, and then you say that I went even further and give the address to the reporter, where it says that the Minister is subjectively responsible. Did I write this address? Am I responsible for what the press write? I'm saying to the reporter, look, the last time it was on the press, I made it clear that we were material that would prove that Mr. Janez Zemlerič was falsely testifying, we should not have, we don't know, gotten when the final report was already in the reception phase. [[…]] And that's why I suggested there on the committee that this be investigated, not by us, but by the competent authorities, because if we know something, we have to say, as a citizen, as a Member, I have to say. And we made this proposal. You didn't vote. Okay. That's exactly how I say in that press report that it wasn't voted out, the material is, if it proves it, it is. I don't know if the competent authorities should investigate this. And what does the journalist say that I filed a criminal complaint and now, and you're telling me, the address of the reporter, if I went any further, and I wrote it in the reporter or something. Well, don't make fun of me. Then let the reporter pay me for these addresses and for these reports, I mean the articles. Mrs Vervega, I would like to ask you to let me prove all these allegations, politically who was the one who was politically treated and because I was politically impartial, Mrs Vervega, from the threats to my family, to me, and something else, because I will not expose here because it is not actually right, which is why I have experienced all of this. And today, please, because it's not political, I'll say it again, if it works out, I'll tell you again who should be called as a witness. Who and how? And those today who have zero tolerance for corruption in your mouth, zero tolerance for language corruption in electoral campaign papers and onwards, you can't go out with your head up if you don't vote against it or not. You can't go. We propose and agree, mostly everyone, I say, except in the final report, once again, there was no more this consensus to turn everything over to the National Investigation Office to investigate, confirm, reject, anything. We think that with the report, the report that was given a huge amount, we have reviewed the material that, perhaps now it is in the middle of, I don't know, it isn't, before the investigative committee have witnesses who I think colleague Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has also told them, they haven't, and that's why we're putting it all there. And once again, after talking to the NPU, you don't think that these preparations are easy, and then when you ask people, they're not easy, and these records aren't easy, but if you have paper in the back, a plane ticket for your wife, what do you want me to do? Let me say ah, maybe they made a mistake. If I have proof that someone's got computer equipment to put up a call, what am I supposed to be quiet about? If I see in the business report KB1909 that the possibility of the money being transferred from Mark Medical to the Italian part and then to KB and then back to the companies that Mr. Peric said that the money that went from Mark to Vega Finance was supposed to be spent on the recapitalisation of Italian companies, are you not worried? You can't say that it's nothing if you look at all those KB business reports from year to year I think that 2006 forward until mid-2014, there were so many. And inside you can see that Mark Medical Slovenia was set up for a bad loan, Mark Medical Slovenia was supposed to be set for a bad loan that was taken by KB1909 at Adria Bank Vienna. They stopped the supplier of the veins, not just the ventricles, because Mark Medical probably had something else, we didn't go into it, he supplied. Set up to take a loan that his parent company or financial union should take this loan to Adria Bank in Vienna, nothing special you can say, or now that the bank holes are cut a little bit more here, there is nothing special. KB1909 was a member of the board of directors. [[?]] when it was decided to take credit on Adria Bank Dunaj and bet on Mark Medical. Apparently, Mr. Peric didn't know, I don't think he knew exactly how to say that he was supposed to be eliminated, that we don't have a record of this meeting, that he was supposed to be eliminated, but then what? Mr Child, the next day, I now caricature, fly to Vienna, sits on the chair of Director Adria Bank Danube and approves this loan where Mark Medical Slovenia is set up. You can find this in the reports yes, which are down there or no, these reports were even public, as I said, they're gone today, they're gone online, but we have them in the archive as material, so you can still go look at it. Because of such things and, say, I mean, see Mr. Repovž said, Mr. Peric, the chief of management of KB said that 2007 should give 200 000 euros to Mr. Repovž, who in that moment bought part of the Youth from one other company in Luxembourg, so that 200 000 would have received from KB as a loan and immediately, now or the same day or the next, mostly this share handed over by KB, and nobody cares why the KB didn't go to Luxembourg alone to buy this share, why did it need Mr. Repovža in between? Was this about any transactions? I don't know who it is, I mean all those who sent you this, to search it, but not to cover their eyes, that it's okay, we haven't heard it, we haven't seen it, and then you're talking about zero levels of corruption. Taxpayers’ money overpaid vascular support is expected to be more than 6 million at Mark Medical because of errors or errors, exceeding contracts on these veins over 6 million. And now you're saying it's nothing. In order to save more than 280 or 200 operations a year. And that's nothing?Oh, my God! That money obviously went from Slovenia also from this area to Luxembourg to Italy and that it was likely to return or return for the recapitalisation of various companies, both in Italy, this was said, perhaps even in Slovenia. Maybe even for the recapitalisation of the Youth or some other company. A distriest who also has a seat in the Sežana, which is the owner of it anyway. But look, that's the problem if you have any other evidence that there's somewhere else you can go with this. But not just hitting it through an investigative commission, how it didn't do anything, but how it worked politically. Show me where she works politically, which witness she wasn't interviewed, and she should be, because she's, I don't know, not politically defined. However, I wonder who writes such anonymities and sends them to the Constitutional Court and to the cloud of precisely the one who warned of corruption, precisely the one and no one else. Dr. Bunc went to the Constitutional Court, you have this material, you have it in my separate opinion, you also have it in your report, you also have it in your own report, to the Constitutional Court, not to hand over travel orders and donations. Do you have to think?Oh, my God! And then one wonders why. Yes, Dr. Bunc is Mrs. Violeta Bunc's brother, and this is politically now shown directly. I think it was interesting just to watch this whole investigation committee process, including from the point of view of political games. Until the mid-term report, all right, I was fixing, yes, I agree. I may have been too harsh, and on the basis of all your comments I have been correcting, I have also gone so far as to suggest the coalition's possible suspicion of writing a possible suspicion, and I have written in a separate opinion that I do not agree with it, because there can be no possible suspicion, not doubt if you have proof that you have paper on which you have proof of an act, an airline card, bills and so on. Any suspicions, at least, which is ridiculous. From my point of view, I don't know how and we just did it somehow, that this, without being adopted, was the conclusion of the interim report, conclusions. [[…]] Some clenched the tail between the legs of the session and refused to expose themselves, but then it started what it was. I have also informed the public, through the public, about indiscretion, opposition to this and that, but I must say only on one side, as has been made clear in my views today. Cancer yes, I think that, once again, a lot of work has been done, indicated, demonstrated and also confirmed by certain parts of the Court of Auditors and also by the State Audit Commission, which has spoken on the stand itself, so that I believe and hope, and above all, I hope, in view of who we have at the Summit of the Special Prosecutor's Office, that this report will be well reviewed and that all this documentation, which will go to the NPU, will also be well reviewed. I think that each of us has it in us, so that these things are cleared up. But once again, I think some people really want it, but some people don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u19	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, I must commend my colleague, who has now spoken before me, and I think that, indeed, every honor is to her and those members of the Commission who have participated in this investigation in a fruitful manner. We have this report on the table for work done today before the end of our term of office. First of all respected colleagues and colleagues, I am sure that, at least here, when we all find together that there is corruption in the health system, we should find a political compromise. And we should never have allowed ourselves to talk about one party, talk about another party, talk about third party, fourth party, fifth party, it doesn't matter. It is a matter of concern that all parties sitting here in the National Assembly, in particular coalition parties, especially coalition parties, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the media, as the fourth branch of government and all the authorities responsible in this company for the fair functioning of this company. And I kindly and sincerely ask all further debaters to avoid political disqualifications and to demonstrate before the end of your term of office so much dignity that you care about people, that you care about people and that you place a political definition on the other side. Together, we have found, through this report, that corruption is in health care and that it is necessary to react immediately and start solving this problem. I could also now turn my words around and say that the United Left is to blame or the Left is to blame for such a situation, but I will not, because it seems to me irrelevant and, I will say, unacceptable. At this point, all Members of all the Members of Parliament and Members, as the government and all those elected from the Slovenian people, must and we are obliged to do everything in our power to investigate these bastards, that these bandits, the criminal society, the first-class thugs, should be brought to the place where they belong. To take away all the property they have, they return to the budget or health system, so that we don't have any problems, and because of these big pigs, we have so many long waiting lines today. For this money that was stolen from this system could be purchased I don't know how much sanitary material, reduce waiting types, quality equipment for operations, then build health infrastructure, raise nurses' salaries and so on. And we those of us who have the opportunity to do so, along with all the bodies that I mentioned earlier, are now talking about this, yeah, that party is guilty, that other party and we're throwing pollen at each other's feet, politically, we know who's responsible for something. We know exactly what kind of people are the ones who are responsible for all this bullshit. We know exactly, but we are not investigators, we wanted to draw attention to this mess, and to those authorities that have the power to make decisions, we gave them the relevant data, i.e. the Commission of Inquiry, as it said today, that they would then be able to respond appropriately. I think that we should have done this before, essentially, essentially, this investigative commission should not have happened at all. Because these pigs and such thievings on a cubicle as they do here, and as we now see, they shouldn't have happened in some normal, legal state, it's unacceptable. This is extremely unacceptable and it is no wonder that the poor Slovenian people, these second-class citizens and citizens in this society, say, look, we can no longer be trusted to anyone. We just can't trust anyone anymore. And recently, a few days ago, I was solving a problem, but through some health-care private institution, where someone should wait for a dermatologist in the waiting line for 6 months to even come in for a review. Under the “emergency” leaflet. I mean, then someone else here tells me that those who were in power and those coalition parties were doing everything they could to make things better. They didn't. Just because where the move was supposed to take place, nothing was done to cut the mess and these places out of the health system. And these chains, which are connected to each other and because someone stole in one place, are placed in an even better position. Yes, what responsibility, moral and I don't know what else, is the face of this coalition and government? What's that? If these same people look at what's most interesting, let's say what stabbed me today, what I wrote down. [[…]] Mrs Muršič from SD said that, only that, but I am not exposing the party, I am exposing the problem that I see. She said: “The management of these clinical centres, hospitals, is still incapable of doing their job. Nor are the saints of the institutions unable to do their work.” That's what you said literally, ma'am. And what, I'm asking you, what have you been doing in the government for four years? I'm asking you. What did you advise the minister if the coalition put these people in this position? And you can't make a fool out of the Slovenian people. You put people up, and now you're here talking about them not being able to do their job. Yeah, I don't understand. A simple man with a healthy farmer will say: “Look, lady, there is something wrong with you, not with me.” Since you speak one thing, you work another — that is a vital problem and we must not afford it and should not afford it. Look, I'm begging you, I don't like and I don't want and I didn't want to provoke you to go here in Parliament on this issue into a political conflict. In our field, we must do everything in our power to stop this mess and that these people are responding with their assets and to lose their jobs immediately. They must immediately lose their jobs to those who are suspected here. They have to lose their job right now. Now! That'll cut the chain. You know what that means. And these people will no longer be able to call the one and the fourth and close the circle into which they will not even let the judicial branches of power. Well, that's not normal. What a corrupt society we live in. Today, a colleague who discussed said: "In Slovenia and in this system we have a typical example of systemic corruption." Here in the background is the government's responsibility, including the fourth branches of government, as we call it, the media and especially all those bodies responsible for persecuting such pigs. But if they are still included in this chain, which is highly likely, then, my dears, we must ask ourselves what Mafia country we live in. If there is no change in politics and the Slovenian people, I ask the Slovenian people before God that in the next elections they no longer give votes to the people who held the stand to do so. And then, my dear colleague wrote in a separate opinion what she mentioned. “Possible suspicion”, was written down and signed under it by Desus, SD and SMC. Possible sum. There's a whole bunch of evidence in here where there's a clear suspicion. I mean, how come you're not embarrassed? How long are you going to lie to the Slovenian people? Tell me how long you will lie and deceive this poor nation. And why would a man not get angry and be in a bad mood when he sees such a mess, and such lies as you are exposing here? On one side you say one thing, on the other side you do the other. You are responsible for the establishment of the saints of institutions, you are responsible for the appointment of the presidents of administrations, and so on and so forth, on the other hand, you say that these leaderships are not capable of doing their job. I really look, I don't know if I'm crazy, whether I'm in a madhouse and those people who voted for me, even if I don't understand things. [[…]] Believe me, this will not be the first to hold, because in the next election, I am sure that those who speak one thing and do the other will experience their fiery baptism, I call it. I am sure that Slovenians and Slovenians will be able to choose, not what Slovenian regime media impose on them, but what a healthy farmer tells them, and this is that they will cast their vote for honest and responsible people, from whom they also expect to work in their interest, not for their pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Vice President. In fact, I am pleased and pleased that we are in fact at the end of an investigative commission, although I will then point out in the debate one detail that will make it easier for me to vote if, of course, the proposer says something in this direction that we are at the end of the work of this investigative commission, why? Because today I can really talk about the things that I have warned about at the time of its establishment and, of course, no one has had a very serious hearing to deal with it, because everyone has been in a hurry to just set up an investigative commission and to start to find out the guilt, responsibility and what was actually created by the act of establishment by the Commission. Let me point out, above all, that we will know then also in the course of what we are actually talking about, the Commission is, in fact, with its report, which, as a matter of fact, has written down a series of certain hearings that it has conducted with all the actors it has assessed that they need to be called as witnesses for one purpose, to find out who is actually responsible for the situation in view of the act which says that they need to find out what is really wrong with these unfortunate stentis. Why am I talking to the unfortunate walls? Because, in fact, the subject of the investigation was so narrow that at the very beginning of the establishment, we had warned that it would be extremely difficult to establish political responsibility, especially if we knew that political responsibility could be borne out to the Minister, the Member, anyone elected to the office of executive power, the President of the Government and the like, but certainly not to the Director of the Office, who was primarily responsible for all public procurement and the Minister had never before dealt with any stenti, these were also key warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service, which had made it very clear on the four sides that the problem in question of the investigation was that the problem was, to the extent of the investigation, of course, the problem of how they would identify political responsibility and that these matters should be clearly and very clearly defined. I pointed out at the outset that a kind of parliamentary precedent had taken place [[?]] , because one hour before the beginning of the college where it was discussed or it would be included on the agenda of the National Assembly itself, because you know that in the parliamentary committee, the inquiry committee does not vote, but on the day it is listed and the debate is held is automatically also set up, it is very important what happens in the college. In view of the College, which, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, made clear what needed to be corrected, it was only a notice by the SDS Group's leader, who was the proposer of this Commission of Inquiry, that the corrections had already been made, that no one, except that they had seen that they had been submitted, did not know what they were like, nor did they see them, nor did the College simply accept that the matter was ripe for the parliamentary debate. It was not until later that we found that, in fact, any serious corrections were not actually made, and we also note this during the debate at the founding itself or in the debate on the establishment of this commission of inquiry, and we find that this parliamentary commission will actually have a serious problem. Did she, from that day forward, at least make an amendment to the creation of the act, an extension? No, because she estimated that in a way that was established she would simply be able to work, that is their opinion, their view, and, finally, their right even though we have actually released a committee through the door, which in fact had already made it clear in advance what its conclusion would be. Today we have a report on the table, and the report shows more clearly that political responsibilities have not been established, because if you look very precisely at what they have found out from the joint conclusion of the commission of inquiry, it says as follows, as is the result of the additional material obtained for additional implementing evidence, and then that I do not read to you because it is more or less clear to you, they will come, say what I was interested in because I was interested in what political responsibility I would be interested in and read and write that the current Minister of Health, Milojka Kolarc, would be subjectively responsible for the suspension of measures, and then says in the conditioner why they should take them towards the removal of individuals, the removal of individuals, the removals – the Minister removes whom? — for whom the Commission of Inquiry has submitted a statement of suspicions of offences from positions allowing for business decisions or decisions in public procurement. Please, the Commission's findings, which are not even confirmed, are in fact the basis, because this is only a suspicion, because the Minister has to do something, because there is actually no basis at all, because we know who in this country actually identifies illegal matters. It's just the courts. And that is why I have one serious problem, and I will not go into the details of this, the Commission's conclusion, that I expected this investigative commission to find out very clearly, the political responsibility to do so and that, or otherwise, it could not have found political responsibility. This is the only thing the parliamentary practice of the commissions of inquiry knows, because this is its main purpose and nothing else. Everything else she came across, what she found, what she was investigating, what was her path and where those findings were made. The Parliamentary Commission has neither been trained nor qualified nor has a legal basis to find out that someone has done something illegal. But if he finds out, he has to report it, he knows which organs. By comparison, you'll know, because we talk here a lot, and then each one explains a little bit about what's right and what's wrong. I will read to you what the conclusion of 3 looks like. 5. 2011. It was a parliamentary investigation, not from the previous period, but from the previous period, that there would be no misunderstanding that I deliberately took it from the previous period, because I was a Member at the time. In order to ensure that the Commission of Inquiry, which has in fact established for a period of time deleted, is responsible for preparing for the implementation of the figures so-called deleted in 2003 and 2009, because of the suspicion that the results were officially published were tailored to the political needs of certain holders of public functions. Finally, she concludes and says that she did not find political responsibility for the adjustment or political motivation of the count deleted during the period 22 November 2008. This determines political responsibility or reveals that someone has not been responsible. Everything else, I'm sorry, is a political game. To put some sentences and so on, so that someone could refer to something, Parliament has confirmed or confirmed what the parliamentary commission has found. And the title itself, the joint conclusions of the investigative commission, the conclusions of the investigative commission and the conclusions, I apologize that, of course, a very unusual picture of how this was accepted. The other thing that seems crucial to me in the debate itself, of course, is that I do not mind if members have a separate opinion that we will not get things wrong. Why not? Of course they can. And in the final stage, this is no specialty or novelty. It is interesting, however, that the President of the Commission failed to convince any member of the Commission that she could have written this in her separate opinion. This, of course, is a kind of indication to me that one is wrong. The third thing that I find extremely unusual is, I think, I don't think it comes to my mind that my members of the commission of inquiry in, I'll say, some way I'm trying to bully the parliamentary debate just because they're from another political option. If this is so, the investigative committees are set up not to look at who is from which political party, but, of course, they are created from a variety and collage of all political parties, unless they do not want to participate, so that this, in fact, is ensured, I will say, impartiality, independence, so that not everyone would actually do what they want or even manipulate. I believe that, in the past, political investigations have been made or I apologized wrongly, and that investigative commissions have been able to set up and abuse many times because of political manoeuvres. I believe that the purpose of this commission of inquiry was extremely sincere, given that everyone who, of course, began to find out what might be wrong with these vein braces, that of course it had come to the conclusion that something had to be done here, but what I had warned at the beginning and what I am telling you today was more than clear that the Commission of Inquiry had been wrongly set up from the very beginning. You know, I will be very happy if we can really talk about political responsibility, but today some serious debates about political responsibility, because today I see also in the presentation of the positions themselves, everyone has talked about the veins, not the medical material, ordering, all the average and general, and then there is still a little waiting kind of health system wrong and we have made this investigative commission a practical problem of Slovenian health, which is entirely. Sorry, that's why this committee didn't have a mandate, so no. Then the health committees are mentioned and I do not know what else is just to suggest that the average citizen does not really understand what we are actually investigating in this investigative committee. The work of this commission of inquiry was easy to do, they had a lot of meetings, they had a lot of hearings, they found out a lot of things, but forgive in their own way, too, if they went like that I could say awkwardly, if not even unprofessionally. In some cases, I can even directly say the incompetence that shows that all the time we want to do a comparison with the vascular walls from 2003 to 2016, but we all know that the walls have actually started to be installed in 2008 and mass 2010 and therefore making comparisons from 2003 is extremely silly because we will not get these real serious comparisons at all. In fact, the price of the vascular stent has calmed down in this mandate and, in fact, have become some kind of foundation. I personally believe that in five, ten years, these prices will be even lower. It is a fact, however, that at a time when some of the most expensive were actually what catastrophic findings this report does not make. He's just talking about how someone didn't want to do anything to bring it down, but not really, it did. Certain standards have been set. Notwithstanding the fact that the invitation to tender failed, the technical rules and technical requirements have in fact remained valid and are valid in any case. Therefore, the reduction of €500 of vein support is, on average, a tremendous amount of progress. Would you like to have even lower prices, of course, because they will also absolutely and there is no particular doubt here. I could have, then I could have asked, "What happened in 2012, when the highest prices were? It is known who was then the Minister and no common conclusions in these conclusions on the common conclusions that the name of this Minister would have been mentioned that at that time nothing had been done for it except that we were reading the hearing, because all the ministers were being heard how nothing could actually be done, how corruption itself was blah blah blah, I am not saying what they were actually saying. This is the work of the Commission of Inquiry or the main findings of this Commission of Inquiry. Let me say one more thing that seems very important to me. Today, we have received an amendment to the updated proposal for a final report on the parliamentary inquiry, which I will say in advance that I will not support if the President is not prepared to correct this amendment. I'm not talking about the content of this amendment, I don't mind, I absolutely agree. If anything is necessary to determine in essence whether it was any such or other suspicious transactions or the use of individuals, let it be determined. And I don't have any dilemmas here. But if you read this amendment very carefully, you will see that I have a serious problem because, you know, it usually happens or parliamentary practice is that the work of the parliamentary commission ends with the adoption of the report, and this is supposed to be today. But we accept something else with this amendment - to the supplementary proposal - The final report on the parliamentary inquiry into abuses in the Slovenian health system adds to the proposal for a decision for a DZ meeting: "The National Assembly imposes on the Commission of Inquiry that, according to the evidence examined by the witnesses interviewed, it proposes that the competent authorities investigate the suspicions of a criminal offence under Article 284 of the KZ-1 for Janez Zemrič." Excuse me, the National Assembly is ordering the investigative commission - how to order this to the investigative commission if it is no more if we accept the report! Now I don't know if it's a mistake, if it's a mistake, if it's because the President would like to work heartily until the last day as president of the commission of inquiry - a little higher pay will be for those 80 or 100 euros - whether it's a lack of awareness that it's actually impossible to accept something that you can't do. Of course, I agree with the decision to do so here by the National Assembly, that is no problem, the National Assembly must do so, not the Commission of Inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the Commission of Inquiry, and that is yes. And the Commission, for God's sake, should finish the job because it has been working for two years, but it has come to the conclusion that there is not really any decision on political responsibility. None. There's no such thing as being politically responsible, not being not. And that's the problem. However, today that it is said that there is nothing done in the field of public procurement, forgive me, we have already accepted public contracts several times in the National Assembly, in the previous term and so on. But I will give one example of what we really want - we want the Public Procurement Act to be so detailed that corruption can no longer occur. I tell you, we can do no such thing as the Public Procurement Act, there will always be a sieve and a hole that will adapt to it to do so. And secondly, if you read the report of this commission and read the hearing of the former Minister of Health, who says: "The law is too detailed, it should be more general, and if it were more general, then there would be significantly less corruption." If anyone understands that, I don't. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Jelka Godec, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u24	You know what's weirdest? It is most surprising that the largest coalition party demands the establishment of an investigative commission in the National Assembly to identify irregularities, a bank hole, and I do not know what it is, but it does have a justice minister, a minister of the interior, and a minister, and it is an investigation. That's weird. And then to extend the commission of inquiry to the NKBM, that's even weirder, because that's already, we'll say, politically. So, Comrade Jani, we have had debates about what is responsible for the inquiry commission, what is not, but this is really the strangest thing - you are in control of everything in the country, and you are finally setting up an investigative commission in the National Assembly to blur everything out. And talk about professional work - about professional work! - when you order witnesses that are key for an hour [[advertising in the hall]] I can't read all the laws concerning this man who will testify before the commission of inquiry in 15 minutes. And that's what we call expertise. Yes, of course, it is necessary to hurry up, seven months of work, and the final report must be written that no one is to blame, and here I expect this. And if you expected our investigation committee to do "copy-paste" to take a final or interim report from previous investigative commissions, then what "copy-paste" did, you made a mistake. Because we worked according to our plan, following the creation act, under the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, and we did not mix the fog, as some do. And we're the first investigative commission -- because it's obvious to her that she hasn't found political responsibility, and if she's found any deviations, let her report it -- and she's reported it. Before the interim report was reported, we were read, you know something, say something, don't report anything, give it to me, report when we did, but there was a problem. [[…]] And if you know something, if you have, once again, evidence in your hands, not as a citizen, but even less as a Member, you must not close both eyes, but you must hand it over to the competent authorities. And no one will tell me this here, not to the other members, at least to those who have cooperated properly until the end, that they have kept their mouths shut and shut and that they have not announced what is necessary. As far as the commission of inquiry is concerned, if it ends today, do not expect us to draw conclusions or to do what is in the conclusions. Mr. Jani, you know when it ends or when the work of the commission of inquiry can be completed. We have some work to do because you will not believe, UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor has given us all the documentation original. Why? Because they thought that this would remain in the National Assembly, we will not go out, we will say nice, we have nothing to investigate, we have nothing to hold onto, they have nothing to hold on to, so we agreed to continue working after the adoption in the sense that we scan them and give them everything back. And we're not gonna finish today. If anyone's worried, we won't. We don't throw everything in one basket from 2003 to 2016, no, no. If you read the interim report, you'd know exactly how we separated, from those BMS stents that were untreated to Desa1, to Desa2 and beyond. It wasn't all thrown into one basket. Prices and tenders are specifically broken down. So, once again, what you said about what we were doing, and we didn't, but that we didn't propose, you had your own representative, never and never heard from an investigative committee. If you were so smart there in this House, I would give Mrs Vervega instructions to say something, but sometimes she had instructions, and we wouldn't be able to do that if we didn't do it to write it like that, and that wasn't it. You've been waiting for the fact that you can, once again, as I've already said, mix the Ljubljana fog. It is strange, yes, that SMC Mr Jani, who is terribly more qualified than all of us, is studying the bank hole or, of course, only one part that needs to be investigated, but that you have, I say again, all the institutions in your hands. And we wouldn't need such an investigative commission. But I will not go into this work in terms of expertise, as I said, no, because it makes no sense, you will show your final report, you will be told by Members or those working on it by Dr Logar and others. But here I don't let it be said that we throw everything in one basket because we're not. We didn't do that. As for political responsibility, yes, the Minister called on the people we announced in the mid-term report to her expert committee on the common public procurement tender, which was due to pressure from one doctor and the public. And that's what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u26	Yes, thank you very much. Of course, I will only replicate in the part where my colleague misunderstood me. In particular, I will release the Ljubljana fog because I can see that the Ljubljanaers are going terribly on her nerves, but the fog, even poetically speaking, is an integral part of the continuum, so I don't know why it bothers you so much. [[…]] What seems important to me is, above all, that you are aware, I will now say something to my colleague Godec that you will understand that it is not meant to say that you were wrong, that you were not working, that you were not working, that you were far from it. But the report, without dying, I will now say directly, is not well written and is talking about the way you chose to handle it. The Logar interim report, look at it as an example, is your fellow Member and I have no comments at all. I personally have also accepted all the reports in the interim for one reason, because I think it is right that the Commission finishes the work first and comes with the final results. However, it is necessary to know that the only way to talk about correctness is to know that I am looking from my perspective as a Member and I have the right to debate and just say what I think and know. What are you members of the committee to do, but look, it's only right for you to make a deal on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u27	Ms. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u28	I used to say that, well, once again, the creation act is what it is, it was written down, the points are. We worked by the same hoof essentially procedurally, the same, so conclusions, the same and the third. But, look, I said earlier, Mrs Vervega did not say one thing against it when it was necessary, but at the same time she objected, I don't know, not to write it like that, not to write it, not to say it by name, why we are now exposing it. Well, it wasn't constructive, maybe suspicion wasn't constructive, and I wrote it in a separate opinion. When the final report was at the investigative commission's own meeting, Mrs Vervega made it clear in the beginning that she could not support it, because if my personal records were inside, she did not agree with the conclusion that everything was going to the NPU. But when I said, but now I am asking you specifically for your opinion, and if the reputation of the investigative commission is impaired because of these anonymities and some articles in Youth, which I have asked for in particular, I have not received a specific answer, so it has always been something other than that, and let's not give it that, but not that. Soften things. It's not working. But when you ask, now specifically say, please, what bothers you, what bothers you, and then silence. Specifically. In the interim report we've been writing for so long, the other members can say, I think three times or how many times we've got to fix it, but I've also agreed to that, that you said, a possible suspicion which then your colleague, as president, made me laugh here at the National Assembly, if you've signed it. Yeah, because I could, or else the midterm report wouldn't go through. I'll tell you what. I don't think so. Because when you had the plane ticket, the ticket for, I'm not gonna say who, you said, maybe. Don't joke! They paid him whether they were her or how it was. But I'm saying, we had exactly, that, that, that, that, you agreed, you agreed. Let's go in one order. Political responsibility. Nothing was said. Nothing. And that kind of thing surprises me. Tell the director, but not now to account and talk about how you are, I mean, then a colleague comes along, not even Mrs Vervega discusses it, but a colleague discusses it instead or how. And then those words you hear on the interim report, accepted, and then you hear at the commission of inquiry. Each member is autonomous, of course works with the parliamentary group, but I say, we had, in order, like all investigative commissions, the law was behind, the Rules was behind, the act of establishment, and now everything is wrong. But, look how this is fog mixing. It's that fog mix. Now we are talking about whether the commission of inquiry has gone after the “regl’ci” by law or what it has found and what this means for the health system, what this means for Slovenia. You were at Mr. Miklavčič's testimony, you were down there, you were listening to things, you were disgusted at the testimony of a hidden witness who brought evidence and told everything. Today you're telling me that's not true. You've been repulsed. Yeah, we were all embarrassed when we heard that. This should be discussed, about 136 million thrown out the window by intervention law, because it was for suppliers and not for patients. We should talk about this today, about how this sort of thing reduces the money for operations, and you'll say it's populism -- no -- you collect the stoppers for incubators, or you collect people for incubators here, and about 6 million 900, as it wasn't. Let's talk about this, not as my colleague Jani says, I warned, I don't know, May 2016 that this is wrong. It's just mixing fog and wasting time and discrediting the investigative commission, all of us members, not just me, all of us. And that, Mrs Vervega, I'm going to ask you once again, it would be right to stand up and say, no, I've been working, I've been working, and I'm not going to let a colleague mutilate the work of an investigative commission. But, no, you smile cynically because you think it's just for me. No, it's about all the members. For everything! Because we worked hard, one more, one less. Not at all. That's what we said. And we should talk about this, once again, that our health system is complicated by corruption, that we are on this small segment that we are seeing today, on a small segment, because it was much easier to reveal exactly what the Court of Auditors said in its audit report. That's exactly what I'm talking All the way down to the bottom, almost. We've gone so far as to look at where this money is going, as far as we've been allowed these bases that we have are legal. And now you're talking, it's nothing. It's nothing because there's no political responsibility. You are politically responsible, the coalition from 2014 to 2018, which protected the Minister on two interpolations, even because of such matters as we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Ludmila Novak, to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Corruption is everywhere where there's a lot of money going around. I have heard this many times before, and even when we are discussing the problem, we are always finding out how much money is turning in health care, how much money is not enough, and unfortunately there is a lot of money going wrong. Probably just the tip of the iceberg or one of the cases. I have to admit that I knew virtually nothing about the veins before, because I don't have these problems, and rarely knows anything about these resistors if there are no such problems and there are no experts in this area, and now we have listened to these topics. I thank the commission that investigated this, found out a lot of things, heard a lot from the testimonies, found a lot, but I hope that the continuation of this will follow. The Commission in the National Assembly is a political commission that identifies something, but in the end it is up to the investigating authorities, those who are set up, called upon and have this responsibility. We Members talk a lot about this. People hear us talk about this, and in the end it happens that we are the ones responsible, why it doesn't come to epilogue, why nothing changes, why nothing happens. Therefore, I do not think that any of us Members should protect anyone, any minister from our own or any other party, but that we are all responsible for transparent business and if someone is guilty, if they have done something wrong, especially if they have done something illegal, they must be responsible for it. No one should cover for anyone, because in the end it's our fault that we didn't do anything. It's particularly sad when I hear nurses sometimes say they have to save money when they're in maternity care, they have to save money in diapers, many times in pencils, and on the other hand, money goes out the window in these real pockets and yachts, and so on. Indeed, for how many operations have people been deprived or for how long have they been standing in rows, and the situation is thus getting worse? How many working days have they lost because they have to wait so long? But I believe and I know that a lot of people lost their lives because he had to wait too long to get there. This is really a sad story of our health. On the one hand, we sing it how great and well arranged it is. Indeed, a number from abroad have already said to me: “You do have systematic well-ordered health care.” I agree with that, but only when I listen to where the money runs out, but I think our health care could really be great if it wasn't for that kind of thing. Unfortunately, this is most often the case in state institutions, where state money is divided into various commissions and so on, and so on, so some are against private health care and everything that is private. I've never heard of a private person receiving, I don't know, being involved in corruption if he has to make sure that he gets the material as good as possible, as rationally as possible, and takes care of his patients. So, the most corruption is in state institutions, and it's not because doctors, nurses, are guilty, but those who are involved in procurement, who are calling, who don't know what they're doing to make such irregularities and corrupt cases occur. So we can't throw everything in the same basket. Many health - care workers work hard, work responsibly, but unfortunately, there are always dark and similar stories that we have heard here, because of corruption, because of irresponsible conduct, because of the greed of individuals and related lobbying. Yes, several ministers have been exchanged in this department of the Minister of Health, and several parties have been responsible for this. Unfortunately, I have heard individual cases that I, of course, cannot prove that some of the government's presidents have been alerted to the situation, but when their minister was in that position, they calmly listened, overlooked and put them in a drawer. So when we are critical of the health situation, we need to think a little about whether all governments have really done everything in order to get to the bottom of this. Then I hear cases of someone wanting to change the medicine, which is very expensive for cheaper, and it's just as high-quality, and there are threats of knowing where the children are in kindergarten, and then the cases of some equipment being broken down, and the doctor is quick to browse the Internet and might be able to get a replacement at the right time, and they tell him it's a public order and the procedure is transparent and longer, and, of course, the machine is a few times more expensive. And so we will soon, or we will deprive our patients, deprive our citizens, after all, of ourselves by failing to carry out their task. So we must not protect anyone, we must all demand that the business is transparent, and that those responsible for their actions are responsible, and that the assets they have acquired in such an illegal way will also be returned. That's what our people expect. Yeah. And when all the institutions are actively working on this, not just the committees in the National Assembly on this or that case, then one day we can get to the bottom of it. To protect no one, for in the end we will be blamed for such a situation. And remember how difficult Slovenian health is, because it is always because our population is always older, a long-lived society, my colleague Trček reminded me that I must not say an ageing society, but a long-lived society, and of course this will also bring many health problems, so we still have to take care of our money for health. Thank you to the commission, but I hope for a follow-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Mr Jan Mahnic, to prepare themselves for the Mag. Branko Grimes and mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! This meeting is clear evidence, as well as a reflection of who in Slovenia supports corruption in health care, who in Slovenia supports the health mafia, who opposes it and works to expose it, found out what they are doing, and, of course, on the basis of these findings also properly sanctioned. It is quite amazing how two parties, in particular two parties in this Parliament, to a parliamentary group, one is Levica, the other is SMC, demean the work of the investigative commission, oppose what the investigative commission has done, what the investigative commission has found and is trying to bring the whole story to somewhere else. But both the Left and the SMC do it for a reason, because each one defends his own interest, which, of course, is linked to this health mafia. Left defends the Youth Week. We know that the money from the veins, the money that was overpaid, as well as the report of the said commission, went to the company Kb1909, which is owned by Mladina. Young people know that the weekly house is the party of Levic and all the other customers who always follow their ideology for so long. And this is the main interest of the Left in this story, that of course protects Youth, its owners and co-owners. However, as far as SMC is concerned, the Minister of Health in this story is so strongly involved, because at the beginning of her mandate she did not cut off corruption because she did not do the right thing because she did not oppose these lobbyists, but rather submitted herself to them that it was necessary to defend and defend this. This, too, may have led to the referral of an MP who did her work as she did. He probably knows a lot more in the SMC in this area, and he is also much more involved in this story, and he would have a lot more to say, but especially much to ask, and he would certainly have made a better contribution to this investigative committee, but he was not nominated by the SMC Group, or by the SMC Group, and so today the loud, President Jelka Godec is a clear politician, an obvious dishonest work of the Commission, he sees an unrealistic report because he believes that his work, his words, his statements and his views are the only ones to be saved and correct in this National Assembly. I believe that colleague Jelka Godec has done the maximum that can be done today and, above all, what needs to be highlighted, with the cooperation she has received from other parliamentary groups. We know how some parliamentary groups, or their representatives, participated in this committee or, rather, did not participate in the hearings of the commission of inquiry, how often the Commission was inconclusive, what problems were encountered by the adoption of the interim and final report. And the result of this is, of course, also in the joint conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry and conclusions. And that is why it is only logical that the President of the Commission, my fellow Member, Mrs Jelka Godec, has given a separate opinion which contains all that should be in the conclusion of the investigative commission in conclusions and conclusions, but is too burdensome, too direct, too explicit for a certain report to be adopted, of course. And when you say it's not clear political irresponsibility, irresponsibility, I think it's all said by a line where the current minister is the only one of the ministers of health, the former, who is also exposed to a name and surname. And it says here that, according to the additional material obtained and further evidence produced, the current Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc, is subjectively responsible for the suspension of measures that should be taken in the direction of the removal of individuals for whom the investigating commission has made a statement of suspicions of crimes from situations that enable business decisions or decisions to be taken in public procurement. It is clear from this letter that the Commission has also identified a specific person bearing a specific political responsibility, and this is current Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc, who has done nothing to oppose this health mafia, which would otherwise be sufficient for the quality and effectiveness of Slovenian health care to make this money go away and that it is not, of course, opposed to them because she has not taken the appropriate measures, that it is her fault, as well as that of Desus and SD, because they have supported it twice at the time of interpretation. And now look at these social democrats' programming conferences, which speak of self-confidence in Slovenia, but at the same time they make it clear in their document that the last decade, a decade of missed opportunities, in the last decades, when the Social Democrats were eight and a half years in the government, say frankly that these years, which were lost for Slovenia, today at these programming conferences about their documents at every meeting, criticise the health minister in every press statement, criticise the long waiting years, criticise the general health situation. And it is precisely because of this duality of the Social Democrats, who were key in their votes or whether Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc will survive the interpretation or not, that the situation in the Slovenian health system today is the same as it is. But we know about the links between the Social Democrats and Borut Miklavčič, between the Social Democrats and Janez Zemljaric, the real Social Democrats are protecting and enabling such a health situation in Slovenia as it is now, but before the elections they are making themselves beautiful, innocent as if they were never in the government as if they were not in the government in recent years when corruption took place at the highest possible level and, of course, citizens and citizens are selling fog in terms of mandates 2018-2026 we will put things in their place in health, ladies and gentlemen, where have you been so far? Where you were in all these years where you were in the four years when you were silent when you supported the health minister, with the interpretations, you are responsible that today the health system is where you were, because you were no longer, I will not say about your own chairs, because even if you went the SD party out of the coalition, the government would still remain, but because the Social Democrats are one essential, for every way in the coalition, because at a time when the social Democrats will no longer be in the coalition, this party will no longer survive, because both they and their members are so attached to many ministries that I am not talking about the centres for social work and so on and so on, and this big machine, this big network needs to be maintained, but you can only sustain it financially. As a result, the Social Democrats were not able to vote against the Minister of Health, they became engrossed in the state of health, they were concerned about the existence of this coalition, a coalition where they could do the utmost for the benefit of their party and for the benefit of their own Members. Thanks, buddy Duck, only five more. Because you knew that in the opposition we would have a difficult or impossible competition with the United Leviathan at that time, today the Leviathans, because we would literally eat you and we know what would happen in the next parliamentary elections. Not so much SMC, the Social Democrats of the lady and gentlemen were the ones who maintained this state from the beginning of this coalition to today, why? Because of your own interests, because of the interests of your client. And don't sit down now by saying how in health care they're going to make order, how everyone is now throwing up at the largest coalition party, the SMC has 36 votes, they didn't have to keep the health ministers themselves if you didn't support it at the interpellations. And these are the facts, and the Commission has found political responsibility, the Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc is written as the one responsible for not cutting it off and then listening to the President of the Commission of Inquiry regarding the fact that she is investigating a billion people in the New Ljubljana Bank for the purposes of the terrorist activities of the Islamic Republic of Iran, how Jelki Godec has been manifesting that she has had this commission for two years, and now she is obviously suffering from pay, that she still wants to draw. You know why she had an investigative committee for two years - because the hearings took place seriously and responsibly and because colleague Jelka prepared herself for every session of the commission. What does Jani Möderndorfer do? In one day he calls ten witnesses, ten key witnesses, and each sets twenty minutes for the hearing. Which work is then irresponsible - the commission that is researching and reporting for two years, as I said, would point to this report, so that it would be as it was written in a separate opinion, so that it would be included, but we know why it was not. And now it is clear to this committee that it has worked for two years, while apparently someone intends to close in six months to present the conclusions on why a billion euros could have been washed in the New Ljubljana Bank. That's not serious, ten key witnesses, each set twenty minutes. Look at the time when individual Witnesses were interviewed on this committee! Look how long the hearings of the committee led by Ange Logar took place! But the thing is known, isn't it, the group has a denominator, a common point - and that's Harry Furlan. It's not in Slovenia that the bigger mess is going on, where you wouldn't find Harry Furlan's name, let it be here, let it be in the billions washed in the NLB. He was in a position everywhere where he could stop things. But in the case of a billion laundered for such and other reasons. Justice Minister Klemenčič even praises him. These, I tell them, are obviously friends of the Iranian ayatole, which made it possible because they allowed billions to be washed with their failure to act. And here's a direct link to Harry Furlan's brother. And, look, at the end, when you look, the circle ends. And those in positions of self, self, family friends, and relatives today will not look into it. However, it is up to voters and voters to decide whether they will be given a month and a half later to give them a mandate to explore themselves or, rather, to do so, not to explore themselves. / advertising in the hall/
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, debate. [[advertising in the hall]] Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I don't know now, President, whether you've listened to this debate by Comrade Mahnič. I don't think the election campaign has started yet. It's not time for us to talk about client programmes in the National Assembly. Today we're talking about an investigative commission for vascular resistors. I certainly think that there is no place for political accounting here, and I would like to ask that the political focus be focused only on the investigative commission and not on political accounting among political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u35	Well, political debates are just like that, and it's hard to separate, pre-election or not. Here you go, Mr. Jan Mahnic, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u36	Thank you, Vice President. My procedural proposal is to allow, however, a debate on the agenda item. We are talking about corruption in health care, in particular, the case of corruption in connection with the veins. And, Mrs Bojana Muršič, the electoral campaign has been ongoing since 1 August 2014, when we were given a mandate by Members and Members. Those who take their work seriously have been engaged since the beginning of their term of office in the tasks he has as a Member, not only during the official election campaign. Thank you for coming by, however, for simply acknowledging the responsibility of the Social Democrats. The next time you answer, at least protect your client by giving me counter-arguments or to answer just one of my questions - what I said is not true. What I said didn't hold? When you answer that, Mrs Bojana Muršič, then I will believe that your client did not have the role I attributed to her. And I think I've attributed it to her much smaller than she actually has.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u37	Although I did not hear the procedural proposal [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] There's a mag in the debate. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll talk about the vascular cords investigation committee. I think I'm a constructive fellow Mahnich, or you can sit down. [[…]] Okay. I must say, the investigative commission has done a lot of work. I also participated constructively in the discussions. All were asked approximately the same questions on the Commission of Inquiry. Even though actually professionally, I'm going to say we weren't backed up, but I think we've done a lot of work. We've established known facts. At the NPU, the SDT is that these facts that we have identified are either discarded or confirmed. That is why my attitude was the same as ours. The Commission’s aim was to detect irregularities and to cut down on procurement illegalities, which, of course, must be carried out in accordance with the principles of the Public Procurement Act. Procurement services must do their utmost to ensure that procedures are conducted transparently, without any negotiation or bribery, as well as those documents that we have, which the investigating authorities will examine or are authentic documents or not, and will reject or not need to be verified. Of course, I fully agree, it is necessary to draw up appropriate legislation that will cut off these misdeeds. Of course, as you mentioned, of course we were Social Democrats or we were in coalition. We sincerely hoped that we would draw up appropriate legislation in this mandate. Some things didn't go in the right direction, but we were, I'll say, unnecessary or whatever we call it, the coalition factor would work without us. We didn't agree with a lot of the Minister's business. We also called on her publicly, and we also agreed in closed parts that certain things had been corrected. Some things we heard about, some things we didn't. The undeniable fact is that we have also found that there have been doctors on the call boards who have been preparing the basis on which these contracts were then concluded. Otherwise, the NPU didn't detect any irregularities, but our documentation is clear. This was also clear and must be sanctioned, in order to exceed the estimated quantities of venous cords and to obtain over calls for proposals annually. It is also sad that in Slovenia there is such a system that manufacturers do not respond to tenders alone, so they have intermediaries and this is a broader systemic problem. Even having someone get a computer, there are documents. That airline tickets were bought for the family, that's what the Stans were getting lost and giving away. [[…]] Comrade Pojbich, please, if you can stay in the hall. In the beginning you also mentioned that, and I will quote you: “Mrs. Muršič SD said, only this, I do not expose the party, I point out the problem I see. The management of these clinical centres, hospitals and so on are not capable of doing their work, nor are the sacred institutions capable of doing their work. That's what you said literally, ma'am. And what I'm asking you is what you've been doing in the government for four years. Now I don't understand it, I hope you know that I'm not sitting in the government, that I'm an MP. At first, he said he didn't expose the client. That's the problem. This means duplicity, or that colleague Pojbič, who is already four mandates in the National Assembly, does not understand the legislative and executive branch of the Authority and the third branch of the judiciary. So here I think we know that Members [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We're not. But as much as a colleague may have any clue as to how this is done, we ask for a day with a word. Because, I think so, I take my post very seriously, and I know that I didn't have a single word on any of the recruitments, and I didn't even know who was named in the Holy Offices, who was the director for [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The director of UKC Ljubljana was informed from the media, so there are quite a lot of things open. The investigation covers a very long period from 2003 to 2008 [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbich, the replica, I conclude.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u40	Yes, Mr. Vice President. I will be very brief, but I must say that I am very sad that they are sitting in the National Assembly of Members and Members such as Mrs Muršič. Unfortunately, I have to say this. Mrs. Muršič, you are in the coalition and you have appointed a government. And it is clear who in this society bears some responsibility. Clearly, you have set up a government and you can call it off at any time, and it is the government that is responsible for this, who has recruited someone. And you Members have appointed this government. And don't say nonsense, perfect, don't sit in Parliament anymore unless you know the basics of how and what really needs to be done and known. I'm very sad and disappointed. It is very clear that you have set up the government. Coalition - SD, SMC and Desus and do not say that you do not bear direct or direct responsibility. Of course, you wear it, in any case, and you know a lot about staffing. Don't tell me that. Go to social work centres and ask a few people who sit in social work centres, 70.80% of SD members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I am also joining some of my colleagues and colleagues who have praised the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. Of course, thanks for all the members, and when I was at the meeting with the President of the Republic and we were talking about possible dates for the elections, I said that it was a key, crucial task for the National Assembly in this composition to consider and adopt reports from all four parliamentary investigative commissions. There has been a lot of effort here and a key mission of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, each, is certainly this, and in particular what we are now looking at to define the names and surname of those responsible for abuses in the health system, which she has made very clear in the position of the New Slovenia Group also by colleague Iva Dimic. The responsible must be given a name and everything else is actually an infertile act. And secondly, it is very important to put forward a parliamentary inquiry to propose solutions. Solutions in this direction that such abuses will no longer take place. And I regret that with this health system, as we have it, some of you are very pleased with it, that you are applauding it, that I am not among those who would applaud this health system. And if we look at the statistics, if we look at the measurements. We in Slovenia spend 72% of our life as healthy. The European average is 78%, which means that the average European citizen, here the EU-28 is thinking, spends 6% of his life more in good health. And I also regret that today someone may be discussing everyone who is involved and everyone who is our health system and all the years in fact critical. I'm not among these general critics. We have great doctors, we have great nurses, nurses and so on, and the system sets up the state, the government sets up the system. And we have already received some warnings from the OECD, which says that in the history of the independent state of Slovenia in the field of health we have done nothing, which means that we still have some socialist elements in our health system. So when will there be less corruption? When less money will flow into private pockets than today in this system, some data say it flows into private pockets up to €500 million per year. 500 million euros of money for health, for health, which is our greatest value, is leaking somewhere in private pockets. Today I will not mention any particular names, many of them have already been strung down and we simply see that there are people from some previous system moving around UKC Ljubljana, etc., etc., and that they appear to be the main suppliers or, if you want, perhaps the main procurement referees. That's not allowed. And then I wonder how much corruption there is in a private person in Prekmurje who has invested 600 000 euros of his own money in his own, I call it, a micro-clinic. How much corruption is there? It's nothing, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing is euro because he has invested his money, he is investing his work in human health, but you say, stop private. We're for public health. New Slovenia is for public health, but private capital must also be included in this public health sector, because it is simply not enough money. We're not for privatisation, as we are here with a lot of people who don't understand our concept. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u44	Yes, Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially the President and all members of this Commission of Inquiry, whose report is today at the table of this National Assembly. I say, and I firmly believe that in this area, which we are already talking about, great progress has been made. Great progress, of course, for the future in the field of health. But we still are, but we're still missing a lot. Why do I say that? When the President, colleague Godec had a report here in the Chamber today, I am firmly convinced that if she were a normal Slovenia, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice would be sitting in the Chamber. And when Godec's colleague finished with this report, she had to stay and give her hand. To congratulate the President and all members of the Committee and also to thank them. Unfortunately, all the tables dedicated to government representatives are empty all morning. That is why I am saying that we are still far from a better future in health care. I spent some time in the hospital alone in this mandate, unfortunately, and I was dealing with my health. I have heard what they want, and I have heard what they want, so, of course, I have followed this investigative committee much more closely, which, of course, we have confirmed and voted on. I was happy to confirm it myself, although, on the other hand, with sadness, it was confirmed in this National Assembly, because it seems to me that when such a quality Member as Godec is elected, we could probably be dealing with anything else in this mandate — laws that are not the best in this country to fix them, and of course also to adopt new ones. Unfortunately, we live in a country and a mandate with four investigative commissions. I am firmly convinced that these committees, in particular the three, Godchev, Logar, Hanzkov, will produce results. And I think the time will come when we don't speak in the National Assembly, or maybe we'll do someone some wrong. Let's be more restrained, let's not talk about accidentally getting hurt by any of these rascals, I don't think anyone will blame me for listening to this meeting of the National Assembly, but how much injustice has happened to our citizens and citizens. Hundreds, thousands. But we're even aware today of how many people had to die because the rascals were rotting away. [[?]] The money from Slovenian health care? This is a fact and I think it is also right that the people accompanying this committee, this National Assembly, are commissioning all the time to finally understand what some of them are doing in this Republic of Slovenia, so thank you, President, thank you to all who were members and members of this Commission. I, because there is not enough time, will not go to discuss what someone has done on this committee, but we must be aware that this commission gives results that will be visible in the future of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President. I too am joining the discussion of the predecessor, who spoke about the fact that we should be grateful to this commission, which has discovered a lot, and in the meantime many have also woken up, and because of the work of this commission, the situation is slowly getting better. The walls are cheaper than they were before the work of this commission started, but it's still a fortress that can't be broken and things are still going for the most part as they have been for the last few decades. I, too, think that today the Minister should be here and listen and identify herself or should be grateful to this committee for what she has done. I, too, have recently been in UKC as a patient and especially because we are dealing, especially with the opposition, with these situations, I have also observed and come to certain conclusions – that these doctors, experts and other staff are doing miracles, performing operations and other parts of them that are nowhere else in the world, but with what equipment? 87% of all equipment is for write-offs, but they still have remarkable, extraordinary success. When one of the patients in my room wanted to paint certain things and give the situation, he said he would put on the social network, and let people look at the conditions of the patients, under what conditions the medical staff are doing, I told him not to do it because it would be embarrassing for those employees there, but they can't do anything on their own. When I asked, because it's really operations going on every day, Saturday and Sunday all day, they just change operators because there are so many patients and when I asked, they told me that they can't do an investigation for all patients as they should, because they have to operate before all the investigations are done because there's simply no capacity, they don't have the equipment. And if it isn't sad, when we find out, on the other hand, that 500 million dollars are lost each year, how much equipment can we replace with 500 million each year? Does anyone want to know? When I was in the hospital, they were on the same day as the desert, and they were strikers, and it was interesting to watch, but what joy there was, and even though the strikers knew nothing to strike, they all did their work as a normal day because they couldn't strike. They can't strike with the right attitude towards patients, no one. So I think there has been a lot of investigation done on this committee, and the question is what will be the consequences if the other authorities do their part and if something improves. But I'm surprised how the position has been held all this time, and the entire mandate has been advocated by a minister like this entire team, when incompetent and incompetent people come in charge of these institutions, and nothing is done, nothing is done. I hope that with the new government, which will be different, something will also begin to take action.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, we only have 10 minutes left in the parliamentary group, so I don't want to steal my colleague Tank for a few minutes, I'm going to be very quick, I'm going to try to figure out the essence of all of this. Before the year, in early 2016, we decided on the basis of some courageous journalists, especially those in finance, not others, we received the first letter, we can say the columnist and also the lawyer of Mladina, Mr Dina Bauk, who threatened all of us in the SDS Group first, to the extent that, in particular, he and his colleagues will look at every word of the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and that they will immediately file any civil action against us and against the one who will do so. With this I will tell you all about how the state works and how the parallel country works in the Republic of Slovenia. Part of corruption in the health system is part of it, we can say part of their suction, part of their survival through media connections, in which case we found Youth, through the former Udbovska company Safti, which set up for the first time a financial octopus called Kb1909, through the financial octopus of Medical engineering and other companies and then exhausted the Slovenian health system. Only then did we investigate through this, through this investigative commission of colleague Jelka Godec, i.e. only the ventricles. Where are all these other drugs, all the other devices in the health system? Then we can identify the millions, maybe 10 million or 100 million, of the Slovenian health system. Today we will also talk about the final report of the TES 6 project, later we will talk about the final report on the money laundering investigation and, of course, the bank hole led by Dr Logar. Everyone has, we can say, the same substance that does not work in Slovenia, does not work “checks and balances”, as they say, so the system of brakes and balance does not work. It is sad that this must be done by the parliamentary investigative commissions, that the specialized state prosecutor's office, and the criminal police, can also say that the normal prosecutor's office in its entire hierarchy, and above all the judicial system in Slovenia does not work and is not therefore investigating. They're mostly investigating only chicken thieves, and those systemic corruptions aren't being investigated. Unfortunately, colleagues, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I remember going to Dr Jožet Pučnik's grave several times, then I always ask myself, at least personally, what is more important in life. Is it important as a policy not to engage, not to stand out, to be a better part of some collective thought, or to be an honest and principled citizen and, of course, a principled policy more important? It seems to me that this life philosophy on the long term of a person who lives, to be principled, to be honest, to be a person who steps out of the average and stands out for the common good that this is the most that he can achieve. That's why people like Dr. Jože Pučnik, like maybe my late father, my role models and other citizens, are ex-exposures. Personally, I will always expose myself to justice, injustice to people, and, as my good colleague said a few minutes ago, Mr. Janez said that if banks are the banks that steal banks, it is the people who are going to live worse, it is the genocide of Slovenian citizens, especially those who are sick or who died because of health corruption and the waiting types of health care they did not have the right time to see a doctor. Because they did not go to the doctor, perhaps their disease has progressed and many citizens, like my father, many of your acquaintances are likely to have died, which could still be among us today, could still be alive today, could still represent Slovenians and Slovenes, only because you have not angered this health corruption and are still doing so. Milojka Kolar Celarc has been a health minister all this time, coming from this system. You put Mr. Harry Furlan back on top of the Special Prosecutor's Office, and that's how it goes. I hope, as my colleague said, I personally have been elected for four years, for me personally the elections are all the time and all the time I work for the Slovenian people myself, just like my colleagues. Comrade Jelka Godec, thank you for your courage, especially your courage, because people don't know what kind of pressures, threats and everything else you've been getting all this time. Thank you for exposing yourself. Joze Pučnik would be proud of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u49	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, we may be somewhat surprised that the coalition, despite the very indisputable findings in this report as regards the overpayments of vascular resistors, still so actively defends the conduct of this mandate carried out by the government coalition. Now, if I say otherwise. In the case of a 4-fold overpayment of the venous cords, it means that one-quarter of the price for the ventricles and three-quarters of the price for those who have landed on these veins is said to be the supplier. Now, if we extend this case to other cases, the talk is also about these hips and the like, then we see that the vast majority of the money we collect through a health insurance company in health care is gone for purposeless use. And it must be said that the purposeless use of the collected health money has already been noted by this entire mandate. The Investigative Commission has raised a number of questions, and a number of questions have also been raised at individual emergency meetings of the Health Committee, but the coalition has done absolutely nothing, not by the Minister of State or by the President of the Government and not by the former Head of the KPK, Mr Klemenčič. Nobody's doing anything at all. When we put in an intervention against the irresponsible conduct and work of the Minister of Health, the coalition has always covered it, a coalition in the Government and a coalition in the National Assembly. And what is the realization of this mandate is that we cannot talk here only about the objective responsibility of the Minister or the subjective responsibility of the Minister, but about the objective and subjective responsibility of all the coalition Members you are here. You are the one who consciously held “stango”, that this could be done, even though we knew that this was happening, it was still happening, past public contracts, with the extension of contracts and so on. You've known all this for a long time and you haven't acted. You have not supported any concrete proposals, nor have you asked the Prime Minister, who has done nothing. Since the beginning of the mandate, the issue of overpayments in the health sector has been raised with a question from the Prime Minister, precisely in this case. But you obviously felt it necessary to close this topic, keep it up and allow it, knowingly allow the money to continue to flow out of the health system. And now those who have participated in these operations are also running for new functions in the healthcare system. Or those who did nothing, even though they knew it was wrong and were under official duty to act, you re-appointed for the next term, even when we are talking about the Special Prosecutor's Office and so on. In short, what you are doing means a conscious decision by members of the government coalition, not only by the government, but also by you, members of the government coalition, that still in the vast majority of those matters that are being paid in health, it goes to a quarter, up to half of that money for interventions, for operations, for orthopaedic aids, for medical materials, and from half to three quarters of that money, depending on the case, is spent on overpayments for the purposeless spending of money. That's the conclusion of this commission. [[End of discussion warning sign]] And the problem is, despite all this being known, no one did anything. The former President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has certainly taken note of health problems and similar matters, has done nothing; he is now sitting in the government as the Justice Department, he has done nothing. The President of the Government, who spoke or spoke of the rule of law, did nothing about the rule of law. Which, in other words, means that all those who opposed our proposals supported, knowingly supported corruption and criminal acts in health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u51	We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which she will be given the floor by the representative of the proposalr, Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u52	Vice President, thank you very much for your word. The Commission of Inquiry has given the responsible name, face, surname, and it is sad that today some of us must defend the report of the Commission of Inquiry, which is the product of the constructive work, most until the mid-term report, after the interim report. Indeed, from this point of view, as I have said, because we have given the responsible a name, we have also shown and requested or proposed to the competent authorities that the suspicions of crimes and irregularities that have taken place in the field of sales are also being investigated. This is probably the reason, because in Slovenia today we are still at this point, that no one assumes responsibility, that no one feels responsible. However, if you point to a certain person or institution, you can take immediate responsibility for someone else and talk either to laws or to inability to act or anything else. If today it were a legal state, not today, on November 22, 2017, when we adopted the interim report, then the competent authorities should have reacted more strongly than they did. We don't even know how they work now, because they say that they are predictive procedures, but it is obvious in the public that neither in these institutions nor in this area has it changed the wrinkles a little bit, at least in this sense, if we look, as has already been said, Mr Hari Furlan, whom we are also charging now in the final report, that on the basis of what we have obtained through an anonymous letter, which is very extensive, where it says in the beginning that Mr Hari Furlan should receive 200 000 euros from Mr Borut Miklavčič, so that this area is not being investigated, so we suggest the investigating authorities to investigate it. However, even here in the interim report, and according to the testimony and the links, family connections, with Primcel, which dealt with the sale of hip prosthetics in Novo Gorica as the only and most expensive supplier in Slovenia, already in this area or here, the competent authorities should react, both the Minister of Justice and, of course, the others. However, Mr Fari Furlan continued to be the head of the Special Prosecutor's Office today, with this backpack, although I stress once again, Mr Klemenčič, as the justice minister on the investigative committee, said that persons who have any suspicion or any bad badge would not put on prominent posts, to the responsible places, that he had warned that he should also warn the Government and that, therefore, it seems to him that it is not, I will say, in terms of increasing the reputation of a certain institution, but on the contrary, the reputation and credibility of the institution is diminishing, so today Mr Hari Furlan is still and will probably be for six years at this point. We are therefore wondering whether the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office is acting objectively or acting in the direction of detecting corruption in the detection of those who cause or who by overpayment of medical material or by arranging public calls take advantage of or not, or whether it is only to protect corruption and to continue or protect all these irregularities within the health system, if you want to, not only on the veins. For the Court of Auditors, once again, found that in UKC Ljubljana, for example, there was an irregularity, even in other areas, so not only in the field of vein support. It was said that there were no solutions. I think the testimony itself has provided certain solutions. And if the coalition were to be a coalition, it would be aware that, or if more actively accompanied by the Government, the minister and the ministers of the witness testimony before the commission of inquiry, today everyone would be happy to confirm this final report, and today we would have or would probably have adopted any legal changes that would make this impossible. So today, once again, I also find that the government is not that these chairs are empty in front of us all the time, that statements by the minister appear in public, that it is personal revenge. Now I don't know who, whether it's the investigative commission or me personally. I have to say no to this place because we haven't dealt with anyone personally. Personal things are personal things. However, if we intervened in his personal life in the sense that we asked or also found out how family members benefited from it, that is something else. Indeed, you are well aware that it is unacceptable for someone to obtain in return for launching a specific invitation to tender or to favour a supplier’s invitation to tender in order to obtain a counterservice, one way or another, or financially or materially, this is unacceptable. However, to join in paying family members, this is even more questionable or criminal. So in Slovenia, we say or say that the prices of the veins have fallen today. Yes, they fell to about €170 in UKC Ljubljana, perhaps a little more, but now they are not accurate, but because of a handful of doctors or doctor Dr. Night and Dr. Strevljeta who launched this first in UKC Ljubljana; because (in quotations) of Dr. Night’s doctor’s fluidity, who also insisted in a general public order that the highest price, which he also worked on the professional commission from 2013, was set up, and also helped to lower the prices of vascular cords, and Dr. Strevljet, who brought or helped to obtain a Polish supplier who was immediately, after three months, stopped by the supply of veins but only one, sold two, but was stopped by sale only in an area where Mark Medical was supposed to compete, d. o. o., and not in another area where they were clearly kept selling. At that time it also began to be pointed out in the public that vascular resistances in Slovenia are overpaid five times. If the prices of venous braces have fallen in UKC Ljubljana today, the question is whether they have also declined in other hospitals in Slovenia. According to my information, no, at least not at this level, and there is also this responsibility of a minister who has not insisted on unifying this market and that prices are the same or that suppliers or hospitals are procured at the same prices. But we are also asked one other question, which was also obvious to us today, is that we have taken a narrow area and that we should look at things more broadly. I have to tell you that if things were to be taken out of the way, so that we could look at, in addition to the venous braces, for example, the hip prosthetics, the cardiac valves, all the other 19 thousand 999. [[?]] materials, then these conclusions would not be reached today. Definitely not. The work would be done not superficially, but superficially, and in this case we have also shown what can happen in other areas and according to the information you have in the media, where research journalists have already found this, there are the same overpayments, and there should be the same disadvantages in other acquisitions. I say, once again, the Court of Auditors has shown this in the end. It saddens me that today we must defend ourselves so much that we have given the responsible name and surname, rather than all Members supporting the matter in the sense that it is now the end of the matter for the health care of overpayment of material, that these overpayments go both for corrupt actions and for the money to flow out of Slovenia. This money could be directed both for patients and for doctors and nurses, i.e. all health workers, but not for the hospital directors, Mr Vrhunec, Director-General of the Public Health Committee, to boast that he was working over a public contract, past a public invitation to tender, and to commend himself, in the end, after the Court of Auditors and the Commission of Inquiry have proved these irregularities, and he smiles and says that it is not his fault to get 500 euros in fines, because things have passed public procurement. Regrettably, then, all those who are somehow responsible in this work, or subjectively or objectively, should today, if not by themselves, at least the Government or the Ministry should call them off, be held accountable if they are not already reached for forgiveness. But no, the minister sets them up for the director as well; the procurement manager, who is proven to have these suspected irregularities in the field of public procurement, is even, according to recent information, setting up for the business director of the Pediatrics Clinic. Paediatric clinics — Why? These may be mere guesses, but there have been major irregularities there, and there may also need to be a re-protection of the operation at the Paediatric Clinic. But this is a completely different area. So the question is where did the money end up? We have shown on the commission of inquiry, indicated, and now it is on the investigating bodies to investigate these suspicions, that the money has therefore gone both to Luxembourg to Vega Finanz and to Kb1909, which is a financial company from Italy, which has in its group an area ranging from medicine to the media and the press and other areas, and that this money has been leaked there and there are, of course, also suspicions that there has been funding for various companies, both in Italy and Slovenia. As set out in the creation act, until Mladina d. d. However, once again, this is on the investigative bodies, the documents exist or these business reports are, and with a more detailed investigation, the competent authorities may also investigate this. The question is also who owns Vega Finanz, a company that owned Mark Medicala Slovenia and then bought shares from KB. For we have asked Luxembourg to give us to send us information about who owns it, so that we can see what they are then so as to follow the flow of money. Unfortunately, to this day we have not received this answer and, of course, it is now, in fact, once again at the investigative offices, the authorities to continue here. Once again, Mr Peric said that this money was also leaving, that it should also be used for or spent on recapitalisation of companies in Italy. Once again, I must say, there is a big question and it is pointless to close your eyes on what is also happening in the area of other material. Once again, from the area of cardiac valves, these hip prosthetics and other material, not to list everything besides medicines and so on and should also be examined there. I believe, once again, in the light of the Court's final audit report, that the competent authorities will do so. I am very sorry that a family has also been created in public or that all doctors are corrupt and that everyone works in essence in terms of personal recreation. I must strongly deny it. It is not true, but it is sad that because of a handful of doctors, handfuls, percentages, maybe not yet, it would not be appreciated, it would not be hoped, the dirty names of other good doctors, good nurses, good professional teams, and I think that those doctors who are doing well, who do not use a variety of machinations within a common, I think, public procurement or anything else, should point to this for themselves. We should launch this debate in public, as it was triggered by an intervention cardiologist, Dr. Night and Dr. Antava. Unfortunately, there's a lot of silence, the reasons are different, I say, I wouldn't guess about it either, but when you hear it like that after you talk, a lot of people say, I have a family, I have a credit, I have kids, and I'm not gonna deal with it, but, I think that everyone in Slovenia should say, report, and like my colleague Breznik said, there's not a lot of pressure on me, like the president of the commission of inquiry, but I'm staying on principle, but I don't think that all the other members who have confirmed these things at the meeting, that if you know something, if you have some documents, if you have some indications, that you should open up and say, otherwise, I don't have to say, I don't sleep well, if I don't have to shut up all these things, hide them from the public documents, and my opinion is that you have some kind of an interim and final report should be public. So everything should be public, shown to people, so that, after all, we may have a slightly different discussion at the meeting of the National Assembly itself. This does not mean a lynching of individuals, but, once again, this is our money, this is taxpayers' money, and it is not right that the money that is intended for patients goes into private pockets, private businesses. I believe that in SMC, now Desus, SD, New Slovenia, the unrelated Members have already confirmed the interim report. However, I hope that those Members who have confirmed the interim report by the SMC, Mrs Ban, Urška Dolinšek, Marjan Ferluga, Marko, Grošelj Košnik, Horvat Mitja, Kolesh Anita, Korenjak Kramar Ksanja, Kotnik Irena, I have written others, Mrs Počak, Prelog, Ranc, Škodnik, Krajnc that they will also confirm the final report because there are some, I will say, no major deviations, the interim report is an integral part of the final report, which we have added, that is, the objective responsibility of all the ministers who have run this sector so far, because they have not adopted legislation that would prevent such matters in health and that the subjective responsibility of the Minister, who has not responded to the report, even confirmed, appointed certain people to prominent and other places, although there are still suspected irregularities for these persons. The Commission also notes that it is necessary to investigate the bribery and bribery of Mr Furlan and Mr Miklavčič, to investigate this and to add an amendment from the SDS Group, which therefore proposes that the investigating authorities also investigate the possible false testimony of Mr Janez Zemljerič, namely, that I must say that the material to prove this has been obtained from us at a time when the final report has already been submitted to the Commission of Inquiry, i.e. at the stage of its adoption, and that it has also been impossible to verify these matters, or in any way to recommence the hearings. However, it seems fair to me that given that we have received the material to prove it, once again you cannot remain silent on the same principle as for everyone else, and we have just handed it over now with the amendment and the competent authority. However, it is now up to the competent authorities to investigate, so to reject or confirm all that we have handed over to them, I hope that with all this documentation that we will send them, with all the findings, calculations and so on, we or will help to make this study run faster and that they will do their work as necessary. I put it on my heart or whatever, or else the government is on the move now, but the next government, the staffing you've done in this government is absurd over absurdity, and the director of the Competition Agency doesn't know what the legal basis is, but I don't talk about the gentleman again. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u53	All the advertised debaters that you wanted to get your word on. However, there is no interest in a closed-circuit debate. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I note that no, so I conclude the debate and I note that the National Assembly took note of the final report on the parliamentary investigation carried out in the area of the identification of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the area of sales and the purchase of vascular cords. The assembly will decide on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry and on the proposal for a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members to the proposal for a decision today, within the framework of the 15-minute period following the end of item 2 of the agenda. This concludes the first item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, IT'S ON THE CONSTITUTION REPORT ON INVESTMENT IN THE TEST-6 BLOCK. The final report was submitted to the Council by the Commission of Inquiry to identify the political responsibilities of public officials in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. An integral part of the final report is also an additional final report, which is marked by the level of business secrecy, the protection of personal data and is therefore inaccessible to the general public. Since the additional final report contains only a summary of the part of the hearing of the two witnesses, it was agreed at the 126th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly that the State Assembly should consider the final report in full at a public meeting. If anyone would like to discuss an additional final report, please inform me beforehand. In this case, in accordance with the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 101 of the Rules of Procedure, we will interrupt the meeting and the meeting, but after all the pre-declared debaters have received the floor. We will then continue the meeting in closed session, at which the discussion will be possible as part of the remainder of the meeting. At the opening of the meeting, all measures will be carried out in a comparable manner to those taken on the basis of the treatment of materials marked with an “internal” degree of secrecy. I therefore ask all the debaters not to mention in the public part of the debate the information contained in the additional final report, which is not available to the public. We are moving on to a debate on the final report on the essential findings and on the proposal for a decision and on the amendments of Ambassador Maruša Škopac and Ambassador Saš Tabakovic to the proposal for a decision. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Matjaž Hanžk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Commission of Inquiry has already adopted two interim reports in the course of the parliamentary investigation, which have already been examined by this National Assembly. This time, the final report on some less than 500 pages presents only a summary of the main findings that we have made on the basis of a series of documents, some of the analyses that have been made on the basis of these documents, notes and a magnetogram of the hearings also, of course, of media writing. In the course of the investigation, the Commission obtained a wealth of material, documents, hearings of witnesses, records from which it created an appropriate picture of the developments in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant and the role of individual actors. [[Incomprehensible]] Because of the mass of information, the Commission had to focus primarily on its basic objective, which is the political responsibility of officials, although we have also seen a lot of irresponsible work, even the suspicion of corruption and crime. Therefore, this final report summarizes only the essential part of our findings, which, according to the Commission, is sufficient for a general picture and gives sufficient evidence for the final arguments. Clearly, this leaves a number of things unanswered, which we leave to the competent authorities. This is mainly what we mean by the police, the prosecution and the courts. In researching investment management, we have also identified some other weaknesses, not to say, the irregularities of various experts, as well as state institutions, which should report problems from the outside. In doing so, we cannot avoid warning of the sometimes highly unprofessional work of some experts who have more confirmed what investors expected of them than their own expertise. We believe that some professional associations should also take their stand on such behaviour, but we believe that the investment in Block 6 is not the only one. They also mainly remained silent about the problems or even confirmed the wrong decisions of the various public service, the Directorates, the board of institutions and so on. I and the Commission are particularly interested in the systemic problems we have identified in this investment, because if there were no systemic gaps, individual abuse, corruption, crime would also be more difficult. However, with the investment in Block 6, we have followed two types of systemic weaknesses and specific abuses that have exploited the poor functioning of state control institutions. If I sum up the key issues and problems arising from the way this investment is managed and could be very much a warning for all other state projects, we can narrow it down. The developmental issue, the decision to increase the production of energy from fossil fuels or renewable sources, is not a matter of saving or rational use of energy. [[Incomprehensible]] Slovenia consumes almost half of the energy per unit of gross domestic product from other countries in the European Union, which amounts to almost one Block 6 TEŠ. With the thermal insulation of the building, several thousand jobs would be opened and the investment in Block 6 could be reduced or even halved. It is an eternal issue of continuous new investment or the prudent use of what we have. The second question is how development plans are being made. If we follow the hierarchy of documents, a national development plan should first be drawn up which would contain all the essential areas. This must have been accepted by the National Assembly. The area, for example, energy, should be integrated into this integrated development plan and individual investment should be included in the sectoral development plan, but in this case it is apparent that the energy lobby has passed over the national development plan and has led to amendments to the resolution on the national energy problem. The show, which was adopted by the National Assembly and the investment in TES, stood above the will of the National Assembly. The TES Assembly adopted a decision on the inclusion of Block 6, the development plan of the company on the day it entered into force when the resolution on the national energy programme, which was published in the Official Journal 15 days earlier, entered into force. The company's development plan planned almost double the production of electricity in the Shaleška Valley, from 3.55 terawatt hours in 2004 to 6.70 terawatt hours in 2012. Contrary to the megalomaniac project TES, the resolution on the national energy programme foresees the restoration of Block 5 and the upgrading of gas turbines and maybe four. In this way, the TES Assembly stood up to the National Assembly and the Government, which proposed a resolution and to all experts who participated in the drafting of the resolution. Next item, corruption, crime. We are already already in the previous report Avoiding orders, changing prices, no controls in the planning and implementation of investments, and the next major problem that threatens the functioning of the whole country is not just TEC. [[Incomprehensible]] TER 6 is one of the major cases. The constant change in size and investment, and thus its prices clearly point to planned corruption. Exploitation with executed facts and threats to politicians and state authorities, we have also observed, state officials, are part of the country that has been kidnapped. In doing so, it is difficult to avoid the obvious that they did not know at first what kind of investment it would be and all adjustments were just manipulation. This also shows a continuous change in all parameters in environmental dependence and requirements. Disobedience of professions and NGOs, lying to the public, disregarding the warnings of the National Assembly is the following. Governments and decision makers listened only to experts, in Nakeków, who confirmed the usefulness of this and such investment, not to those who were alerted to the coming catastrophe. They also generated a warning from NGOs, as well as warnings from some of the questions sent before December 2009, when it was time for reflection. Here was an important meeting on 15 May 2009, with regard to the response of the President of the then government to the question of energy development, where the Government in this area more or less learned what was wrong and all the proposals went on. In doing so, we cannot go beyond the responsibilities of experts involved in the process of giving professional opinions, which have often changed their decisions depending on the desire to invest. This is very accurate in some of the minutes, some of the expert committees, which, at each meeting, also the opposite point of view, have confirmed the professional position. Deception of members of parliament. In the event of any other deception, lie or adaptation of input data, there has been public fraud by Members about the acceptance of the guarantee credit. None of the signed commitments given by the Government and the National Assembly to the Management of the Coal of Velenje Termoelectric power plant Šostjanj and Holding of Slovenian power plants. Exclusion of decisions, continuous blackmail with already executed activities with a lack of time so that we can start again with some analysis and so on. Block 6 was implemented even before all the essential decisions were made before the final financial structure was made, I personally doubt that, even now, blackmailing that too much money had already been invested was a constant, and these are also things that we find very often at the time of the meeting of this National Assembly in some investment because it seems very important to someone in power. And, of course, the demonization of those who warned. Seduction of the local population. They talked all the time, and if they don't, the people of the Shale Valley will be out of work. In fact, the mine is already almost on the verge, preparing sentences and so on, even as a result of what happened in TES. Ignoring Eles' warnings, which did not object to an increase to 600 megawatts, opposed the increase to 600 megawatts in one piece, and he wrote, for a small energy system such as Slovenia, from a safety and quality point of view, more suitable and more recommended construction of multiple production sources with less power. And there's a problem, and then we had to make a new 400 kilowatts and so on. [[Incomprehensible]] Incomprehensible change in investment, investment prices of TES. Because of the never-ending completion of the financial structure as a result of unrealistic planning, there has been constant change, so in the end almost no one knew how much it cost at all, and I don't think we know exactly how much it cost us. The policy of facts and the time constraints I've already talked about. This was the case with severe pressure on the Minister for the Economy of Vision in 2006 on the second energy permit, because they constantly attributed the entire investment to him that it was more expensive because he was stalling, which is pure, that I would not say stupidity, false, because they invented it immediately after they got the 500-megawatt block, and the 600-megawatt block is not much more than 500, but it is a completely new investment where all the additional information needs to be obtained. The same thing is an excuse. We've invested too much money to stop anything now. This was very often said in the case of those 25 million who were paid to invest in TES. These 25 million were paid because otherwise you could not really come to talk to any of the manufacturers of such objects because they had too much work at the time of the conjuncture. And it wasn't an ara, as usual, we gave an ara that was later charged at the payment, but it was a payment to put yourself in line. And the moment it was paid, it was lost. But then they manipulated it all the time, and we have to move on, because we've already invested 25 million. The 25 million were lost, and the 25 million were much less than the billion that was then lost, or whatever, 50 million, 40 million annual losses. Manipulation with a private-public partnership, where they kept saying they were going to find a private partner. If I remember a little while ago, it was said: "If the state does not give, private investors are in line." No private investor, of course, wanted to come anywhere near. However, coal handling and the change from 500 to 600-megawatt block, which also required coal imports, is a service for coal importers. Unfortunately, at a time when all the prices in the investment were rising, mainly they were rising up, if you look at the table, it was always argued that the price of coal would be 2.25 euros for gigajoules and it was supposed to be valid until 2054. No one really thought about it. By the way, all I can say is that it's very easy to calculate the price, 100 million, 110 million, 100 million, about the round coal mine needs to work. The 6th block of TES will spend 3 million if it works with 3 million tons of lignite, which means about 30 million giga joules per year. We're dividing 100 million by 30, and we get 3.33 euros for a giant jule. This has been known all along, but the directors have signed that 2025, although it will go deeper and deeper and more expensive, will come and more and more. That's the key problem. Why is that? Because if we knew that it would be more expensive, the investment would not be economically justified. I think Coal Velenje himself wrote to me that after 3 million and so on, but this is the thing ahead, I don't have enough time to go into details. Coal manipulation was key to investment. [[Incomprehensible]] And here's the problem with coal mining. The manipulation with “best available technology” is also why they chose 600 megawatts. This is an expert commission set up by Rotnik in 2006 to confirm that it is not, 520 megawatt block previously planned by TEŠ, but must be 600 megawatts, claimed that less than 600 megawatts, some people still claimed at the hearing that less than 600 megawatts could not achieve “best available technology”, which is not true. The representatives of TES told the expert committee that even those 520 could, but it was different, that it was decided not to. In the world, 475 and the rest of it are also being built. Then it's a disregard for the Public Procurement Act. We've already talked about public procurement today. Then Alstom, who was very quickly and toe-elected as a privileged bidder, conflicts of interest because they were not sanctioned, the same people were doing the program, the same people were or all the people from the same company were on the professional commissions that were overseeing and so on. I've already counted the commission's problems. We can talk later. In addition, blackmail and the role of the TES union, which has in fact been extended by the Director of Rotnik. This has already been seen in other cases, especially when Director Rotnik was replaced, the unions did not strike due to poor working conditions, poor wages, but because they suspended that corruption director. Politics and politics, here somehow this part is systemic, there are others, politics and politicians could never have known anything about everything, because it has been talked about all this for a long time. For example, the Guarantee Act, which was written in HSE, is submitted to the National Assembly by Members. The question is, where is it here? I already know what it is. All governments, including 2004-2012, acted irresponsiblely or at least recklessly and subordinated to investors. Otherwise with different intensity from different origins and different interests. The year 2009 was crucial. There are several reasons for this claim. At that time, it was definitively known that the end of the conjuncture and thus the possibility of unbridled investment appetites. Almost all data were already known that planning and implementation of the investment was catastrophic. Finally, by December 2009, it was possible to stop or at least make a temporary moratorium or to think professionally about it. Indeed, a number of decisions had previously been adopted that supported the investment, which was a convenient excuse for this government in 2009, but no decision previously adopted was such that it could not be amended and should be amended. By then, only 25 million had been paid, and I've talked about it. In the context of the global recession and the reduction of demand for the construction of new thermal power plants, new negotiations with Alstom could include in the supply price of the main technological equipment, which is normal business practice. We can therefore argue that the highest political responsibility in the government is from 2008 to 2011. So, especially at the Minister of Finance, Dr. Frances Križanič, Minister of Economy, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, and Prime Minister Borut Pahor. In the case of Dr Križanič, it can be found that in the planning and implementation of the project, Block 6 was involved from the very beginning, as a member of the expert commission, in 2006 as a writer of one of the economic eligibility studies, as a member of the HSE Supervisory Board and finally as a minister. All of this confirms the fact that he knew all along and could have said something, in 2009. He now claims that he has been excluded from the debate and is determined. Me, my personal opinion is that the government is that the minister is part of the government, and the government has to rule and cannot be excluded from the decision-making of a minister, especially if he knows that everything is wrong and he has to warn everyone else, but not say so, and I'm not going to do it anymore if everything goes well, but okay, that's another thing. Dr. Lakhovnik did not listen to the warnings given to him by the director of the Energy Directorate, Janez Kopač, to whom he took all the mistakes. However, in 2009, the Prime Minister set up a Strategic Energy Council and thus indicated the possibility for experts to re-examine the investment, which they had 11 months of time for, but because of the pressure of the lobbying to invest, this professional body did not convene for more than a year, and things had already run out. All contracts and first instalments paid were definitively signed at the time of the recommitment. Between 2004 and 2008, the government has a political responsibility for making decisions that have not been well thought out and, above all, have followed investors' wishes for one and fascination with major projects on the other. They bear political responsibility in addition to the entire government, especially the Minister for the Economy of Magi. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Finance Andrej Bajuk and Prime Minister Janez Janša. The political responsibility of this government, as the HSE Assembly, was in December 2006, which confirmed the HSE development plan for the period 2006 to 2015, with a view to 2025, with 600 megawatts at the time of the priority investments, for 600 million, which is a normal price, other data was not left to the government and government agencies in charge of energy to make sure that the input data on which the investment is based. [[Incomprehensible]] In doing so, I am thinking mainly of the price and sufficient amounts of coal for the 600 megawatt facility. The claims that the smaller block is not enough to have bat technology, but what the expert commission has said is absolutely nothing and that the 600 magvatt block is typical, that is also one big lumper that experts have confirmed, exactly 600 megawatts is atypical, boutique and you can't control the price. The former, planned by TES, 520, is one that they did 10, 20, 30 around the world and you know how much the price is, 600 megawatts that built it, but the one that has nothing to do with it, and that's the expert commission, professionally confirmed that it's true and it's not. These data were essential for the entire investment and their true value could be established through the assistance of independent experts. However, anyone can be sure of the unserious work of the expert committee set up by the TEC Director by monitoring the minutes. This is the report. I won't do it again. Also, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has included a project block 6, a resolution on national development projects for the period 2007 to 2023 at a price of €6.2 million, with a public-private partnership that has never been taken seriously, I do not mean from the Government, I mean from investors, but the resolution on national development projects did not present any legislative act, which was later confirmed by the Constitutional Court, but informally the next government allowed investors to say: "Say, this is in a resolution on national development projects adopted by the previous government." In doing so, I can ask myself why, if they were so eager to defend Block 6, why not the other projects from the previous government. That means the island at Isola, the amusement park, and I don't know what else. They forgot about it. Block 6 was like it was absolutely necessary. The more important political responsibility of this government is also the adoption of the Public Procurement Act and the regulation by TES among state-owned companies that are not contracting entities. That's what we said in the second report. The political responsibility is also borne by Members and Members of the Group, who did not listen to warnings on 15 May 2009, but supported such an investment and attacked those who warned about the problems. Among them are the parliamentary groups Social Democrats, LDS and Reales. Political responsibility, however, was later changed, but in 2009, when it was decided, it supported. Members of the National Assembly and Councillor Bojan Kontič and Srečko Meh also bear political responsibility. The most prominent addition to these two Members is Member Cvetka Zalokar Orazem of Zares, who, at the meeting, transferred all responsibility to the previous government and did not recognise the possibility that there was still time for reflection. Statements, like Ma, I'm not gonna do that, that's all in the report. [[…]] Bojan Kontič also stated: "Any attempt to connect, make investment decisions by implementing the renewed national energy programme and including [[?]] individual investments, the programme is actually an attempt to stop the investment.” But they used to talk. [[?]] that it is first of all a national energy development programme. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also has political responsibility in 2012 because it did not convince itself of the reality and feasibility of the commitments made by Premogovnik Velenje, the Termoelectrica Šostanj, Holding Slovenian Power Plants before the support of the guarantee law. These commitments were made within a few months of the approval of the guarantee in the National Assembly. Finally, I should like to thank the Vice-President, the members and their deputies for their concerted action, both within the preparatory [[?]] investigations, as well as in the evidentiary proceedings. In the preparation of the first part of the draft interim report, I was also assisted by fellow professional staff members Boris Vrišer and Zdenka Bešter, who were particularly grateful to them. Thank you, too, Rodani Rožanc Krulčič [[?]] , Aneju Korziki [[?]] Lenki Pavletič and Mojci Batagel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u55	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, Mrs Violeta Tomić for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. The hijacked country is a type of systemic political corruption in which private interests have a significant impact on state decision-making processes for their own benefit. The hijacked country is created when ruling elites, lobbyists and the management class manipulate policy-making and influence the development of legislation and other regulations with a view to their own exploitation. The model example of the operation of the hijacked country is the investment in the 6th block of the Heat Power Plant Šostanyj. The highest political responsibility for this has been borne by the Government of Pahor from 2008 to 2011. At that time, it was already known that the planning and implementation of the investment were catastrophic. We could've stopped the investment at that time, but consciously they didn't. The main responsibility of ministers lies with the Social Democratic Minister for Finance, Dr. Franci Križanič, who has been involved in the planning and implementation of the project from the very beginning. First, as a member of the expert committee in 2006, then as a writer of one of the studies that justified the project, then as a member of the HSE Supervisory Board and finally as a minister. You know, he was very well informed about the state of the project and so he had to know about the machinations, deceptions and lies led by the TEŠ-6 project, if he had not already actively participated in it, which we cannot rule out. The next of the most responsible is Minister of Economy of Zares, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, who did not listen to the warnings given to him by the Director of the Energy Mag Directorate. Janez Kopač, in which he took all the mistakes of the project and on the basis of which it was clear that the project should be stopped immediately. The sink continued to support the project with zeal. As their superior and as Prime Minister Borut Pahor, he led and guided the work of the then government, coordinated the work of ministers and ensured the unity of the government's political and administrative direction. Although Pahor set up a Strategic Energy Council in January 2009, which was supposed to review the investment in a new way, this world was just a facade with which the public seemed to be doing something, but nothing was done. The Council had been convened, it had not been convened for more than 11 months, and when it was finally convened, all the contracts had already been signed. Of course, they also have political responsibility for all the other governments that ruled at the time of the decision to build a new 6-block thermal power plant in Šostanj until it was built, both by the Janševa Government in 2004 and 2008, which, as a assembly, confirmed the HSE development plan where the TES-6 block was among the priority investments. Here the government and government offices left the obligation to act when they failed to ascertain the reality of the input data on which the investment was made. Janševa Vlada has included the project TEŠ 6 in the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007 to 2023. Although the Constitutional Court later ruled that it was not part of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government gave some formal blessing to the investment with this document. In addition, the Janševa Government has adopted a special Public Procurement Act and the resulting regulation by which the TES has classified them as non-commitment companies. We have already discussed the consequences of this in the second interim report. The other Janševa Government, which was in power between 2012 and 2013, was not clear about the feasibility of the commitments made by the Coal of Velenje, HSE and Termoelectrica Šoštanj at the time of the adoption of the law. Political responsibility for a billion-and-a-half site for investment and then for hundreds of millions, which TES will create in the future, are also borne by members and members of the group, in particular SD, LDS and Zares, who have not listened to the investment warnings and have aggressively defended and attacked all those who have expressed any concerns. All of this is well documented in the report; in Levi, we believe that the commission of inquiry to determine the political responsibilities of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant has done its job well. The final report, which we are considering today, shows very clearly how the investment led, how they deliberately deceived and lied about the price of coal, coal stocks, meeting the requirements of best technology, energy independence, and so on, in the HSE Group. The only drawback of the report is, in our opinion, that it is rarely very clear that the involved were aware of all the lies and machinations that took place on the project. However, this is not that important for the work of the Commission of Inquiry, which identifies political responsibility. They bear political responsibility in any case. Even if they did not know everything, their task is to ask themselves, which would not even be so difficult, as non-governmental organisations are independent experts, and even some Members and Members of Parliament, in the course of investment and in the course of making the most important decisions, in particular between 2008 and 2011, have all the time warned of the disaster that investment in TES6 brings. But all governments and decision makers listened only to “experts” and experts in magnetogram pronouns, which confirmed the usefulness of the investment and all others ignored and even discredited. The story of the 6th block of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant is not yet complete with this final report. The Investigative Commission has examined the investment in the TES6 block, which has already started or is at least trying to operate in the meantime. TES6, which is intended to provide cheap electricity from domestic sources, is shown to be non-profitable, generates a million-dollar loss, made by HSE's roof company increasingly heavy, and domestic lignite is likely to be replacing Indonesian coal in less than 10 years. Energy lobbying continues to press for policies that are tirelessly seeking ways to cover the loss-making TES, and this government and coalition have proved willing to meet the interests of these lobbying. The Government of Mira Cerar wanted the loss created by TEŠ to be resolved first by introducing a special contribution to TES, which would be paid by all electricity customers. She finally gave up because of the pressure from the public. A year later, she came to the National Assembly with a new energy law that sought to introduce, under the cover of the transposition of European directives, a paying primary regulation that power plants provide free of charge for us. As a result, the network would increase and the left share of the money from this network would go to TEC. As if this had not yet been enough, this law, with the amendment of the Member States, attempted to introduce a cap on concessions for the use of water resources paid by hydroelectric power plants. In this way, HSE-owned hydropower plants would be able to convince MEPs and Members to vote against this law by means of money that would otherwise go to local communities and the country to cover the TES holes and fortunately by means of a loud warning in Levica. That the arguments on ensuring a stable and safe supply of electricity justifying the payment of primary regulation was attracted to hair, proves the new government novelty of the energy law, which is a cleared version of all these disputed provisions. However, that is not all, the final report of the Commission of Inquiry notes that HSE and TEC have been missing from the outset a state development plan which would only define an investment as prudent and, above all, as a necessity. Such a document should be adopted by the National Assembly and the Government of Mir Cerar. In March, the National Assembly sent a proposal for a Resolution on the Energy Concept of Slovenia, which is exactly that. While this is one of the most lame and substantively empty documents that this government has “scattered” during this term. The resolution on the energy concept does not provide for virtually no development of Slovenian energy. It is full of high-flying phrases and Floss about sustainability, energy efficiency, etc., but it is very specific and very specific in one thing, namely that coal use will end in 2054 at the latest. Years after the lifespan of Block 6 of Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj. After the investment has been conducted all the time without adequate legal bases, untransparent on the basis of fictitious data, lies, blackmails, even public, here in the National Assembly, when the Guarantee Act was passed and what we can also read in the final report, the Government of Mira Cerar decided just before the end of the term to give TEŠ what he was missing all the time, a state development plan that will finally concrete the rotten foundations on which the entire investment stands and will allow the operation of the Sixth Block until the end of his life. This would justify any further investment in TES 6, contributions on deposits, major networks, channelling money from hydropower plants, paying attention, diverting money created with renewable resources into a coal-fired subsidy and who knows anything else, and they will invent so-called Shaleski Lobi and every time the state will continue to smoke money in the boiler of the Sixth Block of Thermoelectric Šostanj. This is why it is all the more important today to confirm the final report of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica, which was set up at the beginning of this mandate on the proposal of the Left, and in particular to adopt the proposed conclusions. These decisions propose that State law enforcement authorities first take note of the content of the report and use all the documentation obtained in the investigation of suspected criminal services when investing in TES6. Another time. To instruct the Government in the role of the SDH Assembly to require HSE to initiate procedures to determine the liability of the management and control authorities in TES and Velenje Coal. Thirdly, the National Assembly as politically responsible for the investment in TEZ 6 recognises Borut Pahor, Dr. Franz Križanič and Dr. Mate Lahovnik. They either put the Republic of Slovenia or public funds at disproportionate risk due to the way in which the investment was financed and to the risk associated with the continued existence of a significant part of Slovenian electricity, namely the HSE Group, including Velenje Coal. We will vote in Levica to adopt the proposed recommendations. Their vote is particularly important in order to make it clear to all future governments, ministers, Members, members of the supervisory boards, directors and other members of the management boards, as well as to state private companies that in Slovenia we will no longer tolerate resorting to the benefit of some partial groups and individuals. Whether to take advantage of a political or financial lobby. Above all, it is important to report that it is unacceptable to spend any further euro on inherited investment in TEC, whose operation must be stopped as soon as possible. Instead of considering how to ensure the operation of TES 6 to 2054, it is necessary to start thinking about how the operation of TES 6 to 2030 will stop smoking euro and produce major losses every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u57	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – has the floor. For her, Mr. Jerney Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u58	Dear colleagues, a good day! Since 2007, when this investment has been included in the resolution of national development projects for the period 2007-2023, questions have been raised about its relevance, its environmental impact, the price of coal, the overhearing warnings of both policies and the professions, so that this investment will eventually become an investment, which we are witnessing today. Ladies and gentlemen, with the construction of TEŠ 6, we have set up a symbol of corruption and clientism in Slovenia. And what is the result of this investment today? He's making a loss. He's making a loss, and it looks like he's gonna keep making a loss. On this occasion, let me also stress once again that Nova Slovenije was the only political party that together in this National Assembly, as a whole of the Parliament, opposed the guarantee for TES on 6th in 2012. And then we realized that it was an investment full of suspicious circumstances. That's what all the data showed. TEM 6 reminds us, therefore, that state investment must not be pursued and that we must act in the future. That is also why we have to involve another investment that is now taking place in opposition to this kind of law on the second track, because it is very similar to each other. In New Slovenia, too, we have always warned that developed countries have been investing in the development of new, more environmentally friendly technologies for a long time. In Slovenia, therefore, an investment that was not focused on the future, but in the past, something that could have worked, worked 50 years ago. Although the project was estimated at only EUR 600 million among strategic national investments in 2006, the price of the project later went up to almost a billion and a half of the total investment. Just this fact, it is said that the whole investment has been splattered more than once, that it has become so irritable, that only this fact with the average citizen is setting off all the alarms and waking up in any doubt or doing fair and fair business in this case. Unfortunately, this issue is again addressed only by the parliamentary investigative commission. This, of course, is always welcome in each mandate, but epilogues should occur in police, prosecutorial and judicial procedures. There were big words, house investigations, criminals knocking on the door of suspected suspects; and what is the epilogue today, a few years after these house investigations? [[…]] There's no epilogue. And in New Slovenia, we really wonder if this is the right country that we call no one responsible for this kind of investment, once again, from €600 million to a billion and a half. And we fear that there will be a similar fate, that is, the issue of TER 6, that fate will be similar to those, first and second bank holes, when we have a problem when we realize that something is wrong here, we cannot, neither can politics nor law enforcement, take steps forward so that the perpetrators can find it. And what is the whole epilogue of citizens? Citizens no longer trust in institutions, in a fair country. Citizens because of such things, including tragedies, no longer trust that we live in a country where all the same rules apply. Nevertheless, this report, which is before us today, in New Slovenia, of course we support and hope that it represents a fraction of the effort that will be needed to find in TES 6 the culprits who have harmed taxpayers with hundreds of millions of euros a deep hole. It's time for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u59	Mrs Maruša Škopac will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u60	Respectable. TŠ 6 is the largest energy investment in the history of Slovenia, which has become the biggest fraud at the expense of the political actors SDS and SD, and the consequences of which are still felt by Slovenian citizens in particular today. Today we will therefore rightly wonder why the then political space in the colours of the SDS and the SD did not respond effectively to the warnings that pointed out that TES 6's investment is controversial from an energy, environmental and, of course, from a financial point of view. Probably only because the ruling policies of the tabulated parties, which today aim at a new victory in the upcoming elections, have put the interests of the lobby ahead of people's interests. Why and how they plan to ensure that they do not repeat the second episode of TER 6 is, of course, on them to explain today to citizens and citizens. So today we are going to talk about political responsibility, and if the events are going on, we cannot change. However, we can, of course, push our way into different practices in the future. And yes, even in order to prevent such crimes, it is sometimes necessary for large infrastructure projects to be adopted by a government law in order to allow transparency and public financial sustainability, not as in the case of TEM 6, when the law was needed only to provide funds that were then used just beyond public procurement. Let's go to the key years when the fate of the investment was decided and when questions arose as to whether we needed the 6 block at all and, consequently, whether the investment in TES 6 was justified or not. Various interests began to grow very rapidly around the initial price of €600 million. Very soon, major changes started to occur, followed by a strong leap in 2007 when the price of the project rose rapidly to a billion and to 1.3 billion euros next year. And on the political side, neither the then President of the Government, Janez Janša, nor the competent minister in the composition of his government, Andrej Vizjak, in the role of Minister of Economy and Andrej Bajuk, in the role of Minister of Finance. In the context of this political responsibility, the final report is well researched and presented. In December 2006, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia approved the HSE development plan for the period 2006 to 2015, in which TEŠ 6 defined as a priority investment through the holding assembly of Slovenian power plants. None of the government representatives, however, became convinced of the reality of the input data on which the investment stands. These data were essential for the entire investment and their real value could be determined at that time. After 2009, however, the events show political manipulation in all its dimensions, the ignorant attitude towards professional warnings, the reckless management of public finances and the irresponsible conduct of key political actors at the time. The price of the investment was slightly reduced in changed financial and economic circumstances as a result of the crisis after 2009, although HSE supervisors requested new negotiations on equipment for TES 6, but no one knew or wanted to take advantage of it. In view of the changed circumstances on the market, the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Borut Pahor, who was the sole figure of the Socialists, would expect responsible treatment of the taxpayer's money. This is, after all, the basis for someone to be legitimately able to carry out their function and yet the price of the project has cost more than €1.2 billion and eventually exceeded €1.4 billion. As a ruling party, the Socialist Party would, of course, be able to stop the horses, have the opportunity to clarify the circumstances, obtain reliable information in a timely manner, verify the estimated values and take appropriate action. Why isn't it? It was more than evident that, on behalf of the private interest of individual actors, the project was manipulated and the country imposed the idea that the failure to build TES 6 constitutes a threat to the energy stability of Slovenia. Nor did the then President of the Government, Mr Pahor, have acted further, several years after that, even replied at the hearing that he did not surprise the need to deal with this project and was pleased that at least one investment had been made in the investment extremely difficult year 2009. An interesting claim, especially if we are aware that the investment of TES 6 during the crisis represented 15% of the gross national product. So, if we visualize plastic, how many millions that we haven't focused on health, education or social? Thus today, we can find that the suspicions of a criminal offence of abandoning the course of duty or of the conduct of a bride in the performance of their duties are fully justified. Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, Dr. France Križanič, and Borut Pahor left their duty, which they already had after their duties at the time. The latter were not concerned with the assessment of facts, arguments and circumstances which could have a significant impact and would have changed the course of developments in the investment in TEM 6. In fact, we should require the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when the Assembly of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants is the latter as the parent company of the Termoelectrica Šostanj, to impose an assessment of all the elements of the said contract and any failure to comply with these. The latter could constitute a contractual non-refoulement and thus significantly strengthen the negotiating position in terms of global recession and demand reduction, which would have a positive impact on the reduction of the price of the project. But they didn't. However, the risk and adverse effects on the investor increased by the suspension of the duty. In these cases, the offence of the offence of the offence of a minor act in the service referred to in Article 258 of the Penal Code, which, by means of this final report, receives an appropriate epilogue. The number of these corruptions was certainly a guarantee law, which was passed in 2012, allowing the signing of EUR 440 million worth of a guarantee contract with the European Investment Bank. [[Incomprehensible]] It was adopted by 29 votes to 20. Where the remaining 41 votes of the 90th House of Representatives were lost is an interesting question. However, the fact is that the State has obtained a guarantee for its infrastructure project through the law of the Member States with very modest support from the National Assembly and has thus avoided interdepartmental coordination and has taken a shorter path. The networking of the interests of the Sage Lobby, the executive branch of the authorities and the Members of the time has therefore reached a higher level and is now becoming a learning example of how state investment should not be managed. Today we know that Members voted in favour of the guarantee law on the basis of misleading facts. As a result of this deception, among other things, today we are all Coal Velenje. The summary of the Court of Auditors’ audit report shows that Coal Velenje is operating at a loss due to an excessive gap between the cost and the sales price. These were raised by € 143 million in 2013, 2014 and 2015. Today, the players of this deception are citing that they were talking about the starting price rather than the maximum price. The second part of the story, referred to in the second interim report, is the shameful introduction to public procurement, where we have already found that direct political responsibility lies with the former ministers of the competent ministries in the field of finance and energy, Mr Andrej Vizjak, Andrej Bajuk, Franz Križanič and Matthew Lahovnik, and that the then Presidents of the Government, Janez Janš and Borut Pahor, have an objective responsibility, because they would have to investigate and take appropriate action in the light of the decisions taken and the many doubts raised by the professional public. It turns out that the two governments and the competent government authorities have deliberately acted in order to make the investment in a way that is untransparent, fiscally unsustainable and socially irresponsible. TEM 6 was removed from the list of public procurement debtors, which led to the complete failure to control the implementation of the project. The 6th block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj has therefore become the country's most receptive investment, particularly due to investigations into construction irregularities, the overpriced cost of investment and alleged corruption. A strong network of political, lobbying and other interesting contacts was managed during the period of implementation around this large infrastructure project. It is essential and socially responsible to answer the question of who is politically responsible for making the investment in the way it was. The final report therefore notes that from 2004 to 2012, all governments acted irresponsibly or at least recklessly and subordinately to the TEC. The Government has the highest political responsibility from 2008 to 2011, namely the Government of Social Democrats under the leadership of Borut Pahor, in particular the then Minister, Minister of Finance Dr. Franz Križanič and Minister of Economy Dr. Matej Lahovnik, a doctor of economic sciences, who is teaching our future graduates at the Faculty of Economics in the course of strategic management today as a regular professor. Today we cannot just close this new block because it would cause even more loss than ever. All we can do is prevent such practices in the future and, by investigating the politically responsible in this story, point out that such crimes are criminal and do not go unnoticed. This is absolutely necessary because of the fact that we need to do so in the country today and even in the future we will need larger infrastructure projects with which we will follow the most developed as a country, and that is why it is essential that the ENS 6 epilogue of the story is needed to make it known as a country that inappropriate practices will not remain unsanctioned and thus restore the trust of people that is not at this time. There is nothing more we can do from our position, even if we would like to, because the Members of the Modern Centre Party were not yet in politics at the time, and if they were, they would strongly oppose such decisions. However, the final report on the investment in the TES-6 bloc will be unanimously supported by the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u61	Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present. We now have a second report from the Commission of Inquiry at the debate, the TES Commission started its work on 25 March 2015, and all parliamentary groups were included in this committee. Only the report is very extensive, who has examined it can agree that it has summed up the key points, the fact is that we have heard more than 48 witnesses, that we have also faced witnesses because of different testimony as individuals, so that we have confronted three witnesses among ourselves, Mr Simon Tot and Mr Uroš Rotnik as the then director, mag. Darija Radič and Dr Mate Lahovnik as the responsible and responsible minister and Mr Gregor Golobič and Mr Borut Pahor are also particularly present at the meeting of the witnesses. I must say that the Commission has been acting on a professional principle all this time, we have not dealt with any political omen on the Commission in any way, and I must say that as a member of the Commission, I thank everyone that they have been constructive in this process, including in proposing both the witnesses and the hearings themselves, and also in addressing all the interim reports, and the same applies to the final report. Thank you, too, to the President who led the committee, I will say very neutral, very correct and also very professionally. I think we have set ourselves certain priorities and individual sets after which the Commission has also taken note of the key things that are important in investing in the Šostanj 6 Thermoelectric Power Plant. Now, at the beginning, we have somehow focused on the key starting points of the conditions that were presented at the time, and there is much talk about the placement of the facility itself on certain resolutions that were adopted in 2006, since individual projects were placed in national programmes, the same was true for block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power of 500 megawatts at the time, as can be seen from the permits of the time. As you know, there were many projects in this resolution that were not later implemented, one of them is the island off our coast and the third pier, and many projects that were in the tourist area. So one of the projects that went on was Block 6. The fact is that this block 6 also largely accepted the environment where it was being built with some consensus. I think there was very little opposition in the local environment, we can say that 100 percent supported it, which is not a negligible situation for such projects. The key thing that has disturbed the Commission in the initial phase was the price of coal, which has been defined throughout the period of up to 2.25 euros for gigajoules, despite the fact that, through the individual materials available to us, so-called novel investment programmes, we have found that this price has been determined on the basis of the envisaged works that should have been carried out during a certain period, and none of this has simply been implemented. Therefore, questions were raised as to how this price for coal could have occurred in all the NIPs from 2006 to 2012 and later in NIP 6, which was definitely not yet adopted in this National Assembly. However, the price was fixed to 2.25 euros for gigajoules and the Commission then found that there was simply no serious basis. Even through the testimony, there was simply no serious argument as to why this price was set and the Commission's conclusion was that this was a speculative assessment that ensured the long-term viability of this project and that the real price was now close to EUR 3 per gigajoule. It is also true that this price was adjusted to actual electricity consumption and that the price was practically agreed I would say the fact that this price was negotiated between HSE as an electric energy supplier and Velenje Coal as a supplier of Termoelectrica Šostanj. [[…]] So he hasn't actually had any real grades. However, the fact is that there was an export shaft in the NIP as a key argument to lower the price in the sense of coal transport, thus, of course, also the price of the gigajoules, but this export shaft, which would reduce the price over a long period, has never been implemented and is not yet. The fact is that later we had a lot of attention to the expert committee, which had defined what block to be set up, and it was quite interesting when this work was being considered, because even more power was emerging in these materials than it was actually put in the end. That's 600 megawatts. These discussions also referred to 800 megawatt blocks, with a lot of pronunciation and conclusion in the final phase on the basis of the need to ensure or choose such a block because it is a typical block and because such a block fulfils this condition of BAT. [[?]] technology is called a technology that meets all the conditions. Later in the research of this work it was found that (first) this does not hold that BAT [[?]] The technology can also be provided by smaller blocks, it has also been shown that 600 megawatts is not a typical block, that typical blocks of less power, even greater power, but 600 megawatts was a unique block, and similar things. Thus, in all these areas, which have been explained so far, it has been found that all those who have been heard speak differently and that it has been easy for anyone who has decided to do so at that time to be misled and misled in some way. In the end, this expert commission unanimously chose a block of 600 megawatts and the story began to unfold. The fact is that the government was the HSE Assembly during all this period, but it was not the Assembly of the Termoelectrica Šoštanj, which in fact led to the moment when HSE decided or the management decided to issue the parental guarantee to TEŠ. At that time, however, the matter became essential, much more connected, but it could be said that it was linked all the time because certain people formed either in the decision - making work of individual societies or in their supervisory councils. Thus, the Government functioned as the HSE Assembly until the practically end of 2010 until October when the AUKN was established. The fact is that, at the end of 2008, or at the beginning of 2008, the situation on both the electricity market and the actual market of individual equipment manufacturers changed considerably, as the prices of certain services and materials were very high and therefore there were warnings from both non-governmental actors in 2008 because it was said earlier, as well as by the professional public, that this project should be reconsidered. The fact is that the end of 2008 was elections and a new government took place. Many times it has been said that the contract was signed in 2008. It is a fact, and we have been made aware of it. However, this Treaty had a lot of time-consuming conditions that should be fulfilled in order for this Treaty to become effective. These deferral conditions were recorded as of December 2009. So, throughout 2009, when a large number of meetings of working bodies took place in this National Assembly, from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on the Economy and later from the plenary meetings of the National Assembly on the subject of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj, all these facts were somehow exposed, but apparently they did not come to the right ears, if we say so. Moreover, even in this National Assembly, ministers were appointed in 2009 to ensure that this investment could be reduced, that they would make sure that it would be reduced, given that they actually had the ideal tools to stop this investment at that time, that they would go into new negotiations with the supplier, because in 2009, there was a lot of, I will say, these planned plants fell out and this order also changed significantly with the manufacturers of this equipment. Most of the other countries that had similar projects went into contract changes, including time and financial ones, and there was no reason for our government or even then HSE to go into new negotiations and thus probably to reduce the contract that was signed. The fact is that this contract entered into force with the signature of the parent guarantee by HSE Teš and the payment of Alstom's first meal of 85 million Circus. What was interesting for us on the committee is that in this payment the management and the responsible did not ask the government anything, but it did. However, when the next meal was the second meal, which was just over 20 million euros above the level of the circus, HSE's management asked the government whether to pay the second meal or not. Why can you create a picture of yourself in such a strange situation? Thus, the deferral conditions were possible until the end of 2009. In that contract, it has cost you both partners, both TES and HSE and Alstom do not owe anything, it remains, of course, in the lease of these 25 million, I will say, some payment of order in the process of building or supplying this equipment. The fact is that we were actually misled in the National Assembly when we decided both in 2009 on the committees, in 2011 and also later. For all the time by the management of these companies, which were involved in this project, and not least by the then ministers covering these areas, has been spoken in the direction of paying extremely high compensation. At the time, it was said that the project needed to be continued. Otherwise, we will pay more than a billion, which is more than a contractual amount, which was to some extent incomprehensible, but they have stood and I think that Members and probably no one else has had any insight and a clear picture of this as a pure deceiving. And now that the contract has entered into force, it has not actually been possible to withdraw from it, and in 2011, when the first guarantee came into force, this procedure was stopped in the home work committee where no continuation of the procedure was voted out, and later in 2012, it is necessary to know that in the Block 6 project there were practical investments up to 96% and something else, all the contracts have been practically signed and at that point there was no better alternative than in my opinion the acceptance of the guarantee, because, otherwise, TES or HSE would have taken credit as a state company, which would certainly have had poorer conditions of repayment and would have already significantly lost the country, but not least at the end of the time would have always been the government or the state with its assets, because, as it is said, both companies are in 100 percent state ownership. Now, as for the report itself, as I said, it is very extensive, in fact, through all the hearings everyone can create an image, and the fact is that the project was very poorly managed from this corporate and technical point of view. I think this part is being explored by other authorities. It should be known that prior to the signature of the guarantee, conditions were laid down for the management of both HSE and TES to be fulfilled in order for the guarantee to be issued. At that time, a cap was also placed on the value of the investment, which unfortunately is not being implemented. Back then, HSE and TES complaints were also made for individual responsible persons, but the epilogue, as you have all identified, is not yet available in other cases. Now, some facts stand, it is necessary to know that in 2009 the Strategic Energy Council was appointed, or at the end of 2008, to the new Government of Mr Borut Pahor, which is also supposed to take some decisions on and energy concept, and in particular was appointed with a view to identifying it also until the investment in TES 6, but this Strategic Council met only once and then virtually one year no reference was made. In the meantime, as I said, all these things have unfortunately gone wrong and the project has run with its course. That is why we, in the Group of Members, will confirm this report. As I have said, there are many facts, arguments that stand and through hearings and other documents, but it is necessary to know that all these documents have been made available to the investigating authorities and all the other institutions in charge of other matters in terms of investigation and also of the issue of specific decisions. At present, some concrete conclusions have not been proposed in the background of the report itself. At the last meeting, we have drawn up three conclusions that we support in our Group of Members. We will also support the amendments tabled by the SMC party to this report, so that I hope that you will also support these reports and give some clear signal that similar practices will not be able to take place in Slovenia. However, I would like to draw attention to something that is often mixed, this project is not comparable to the second track, because in the case of the second track, the Ministry, the Government, an investor in some infrastructure, in the case of the TŠ Block 6, was an economic operator, which was bound to its rules of the game, that is, the Termoelectrica Šostanj only later subsidiary Holding of Slovenian power plants and the problem had landed in the National Assembly or to decide at this level only when the financial structure of the project, in indications, to a large extent to the private investor due to changes in the market, but the fact is that then certain authorities should take a more serious view of the changes in the market and also of the changes that took place on this project, as a school for the following projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u63	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman! Respected and respected! I will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia on the final report of the Commission of Inquiry on the project Block 6 of the Termoelectrica Šostanj. In March 2016, an investigative commission was set up to identify possible irregularities in project management and the possible political responsibility of public function holders in managing this investment. As we know, the Commission of Inquiry has presented an interim report and today we are discussing the final report of the Commission in the National Assembly. When, in fact, all of this began and how the construction of Block 6 in the thermal power plant Šostanj took place and, of course, the essential findings of the investigative commission dealing with the entire course of the TES 6 project are as follows. The start date is 2003 when the HSE strategic conference on this project took place and the investment price was presented around EUR 600 million. The 2004 Resolution on the National Energy Programme states: "Blank 4 and 5 will end life and its technical life will expire in the next decade and older power plants will need to be replaced with more technically more modern, environmentally acceptable production blocks, and the location of the TES will allow for the construction of replacement units or an increase in power of the power plant. The total necessary power at the power plant threshold for the supply of the market for the period until 2015 shall be approximately 600 megawatts." It also states that it is necessary to maintain domestic production of lignite and to find a compromise between meeting the Kyoto Protocol's obligations and achieving the economic conditions of business that would enable Velenje Coal to reach the coal reference price of 2.8 euros per gigajoule. However, it is true that those responsible have claimed from the outset, and this has also been recorded in individual DPAs, that during the entire period of operation of Block 6 in the Šostanj Termoelectricarium the price of €2.15 for gigajoules will be provided, which is why the Commission of Inquiry has proved that this distortion has been from the beginning. This made it impossible for this project or investment to be interrupted or stopped. The second major moment, or doubtless a major irregularity, was that the investment in Block 6 of the Heat Power Plant was unduly excluded from the public procurement obligation. This gave an opportunity or an open road, which indirectly allowed the price of the project from the initial estimated EUR 600 million to increase to the final EUR 1.43 billion. The conviction is that if the thermal power plant of Šostanj led the investment through public procurement, such an anomaly could not have occurred. It is also important that in 2005 a pre-investment design and an energy permit was granted for only 500 megawatts and not 600 megawatts. Uroš Rotnik provided or defended a block of 600 megawatts, then experts in 2006 supported a 600-megawatt block and then adopted it. The Commission also concluded that it was not maintained in the technical characteristics that the energy facility would only be capable of starting, without external tension and an auxiliary source, which proved to be unrealistic. The Commission also found that if a 500-megawatt block meeting the requirements of the Bat Technology were to be built, this would be sufficient for the Slovenian electricity needs, in which case a larger number of suppliers capable of building such a facility would be 500 megawatts, while only two 600 megawatts were chosen in this case as Alstom's exclusive provider. The key finding of the Commission of Inquiry is that, in fact, all governments have acted irresponsiblely since 2004 in the TES 6 project, and among those with the highest responsibility for the Termoelectrica 6 project, according to our Commission, the government led by President Borut Pahor in the then government was Minister of Finance Franc Križanič and Minister of Economy Matej Lahovnik. One of the most important decisions of this government was the adoption of the Public Procurement Act and the Regulation, which included TES among state-owned companies not bound by public procurement, since in 2009 until December there was still power without any consequences to stop the investment, since until then only EUR 25 million had been paid for the reservation of the Alstom project itself, and these EUR 25 million had been lost in one way or another, regardless of whether the project stopped or continued. Unfortunately, however, the government did not do so and the price of the project later escalated to an incredible €1.43 billion. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia unanimously supports all three proposals for conclusions proposed by the Commission of Inquiry to the National Assembly for admission and presented in its opening presentation by the President of the Commission, Mr Matjaž Hanžek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u65	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u66	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Political responsibility, even if it is not identified by the Special Commission, is of course important for all those involved in politics, but it is important that, in particular, in such a large project, which is an important experience for all the future investments that this country will still need and will have to carry out in the future, this Commission has also been able to clear up all or at least a large part of the circumstances that have led to the question of the responsibility to carry out today in this assembly and that it has been necessary, or has been, to deal with, for three years. Allow me to express, on behalf of our Group, my thanks to Mr Hanžk for his correct leadership and to the Slovenian public, at least the work that was publicly presented how and how this project was carried out. The basic conclusion is, of course, that the policy was faced with wrong information, which was clearly distorted from today's point of view on the basis of information that was signed by people with academic titles, and studies of legitimate and professional institutions have, of course, also come up with political decisions that were what they were. One of the most important findings that follows from the Court of Auditors' report is that, of course, the holders of the investment Holding of Slovenian power plants, the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj and the coal mine Velenje led the project not transparently, not economically and in particular ineffectively. It is for the law enforcement authorities to determine whether the management of these companies did so on purpose for their own benefit, whether this happened under the indications solely because of the extreme lack of a culture of corporate governance and the ability to manage it. Perhaps, unfortunately, it may happen that we will find out and that the law enforcement authorities will also find out the first, for example, at one of the hearings we were able to hear that the price that was set and the key problem of this story was actually agreed at one of the meetings in 2007 between Mr Zagogozno and Mr Dervarič, this was a telephone conversation. When we asked the members of the active project control group, one of the later directors of the Termoelectric power plant Šostjanj also came from this group, the latter were unable to answer us either what their tasks were or what they were doing as an active control commission. And despite the fact that, in critical years for the installation of this project, also by policy, if I say directly by the Council Group of Social Democrats in Velenj, questions and doubts have arisen as to whether the project can be made viable at this price, all concerns have been rejected by the profession as unfounded and not relevant, I repeat the sections as arising from documents which are in the archives and which the police will have to examine with the prosecution in very detail, signed people with academic titles of Slovenian universities, both by the economic and by the mining profession. Why policy, at least in a significant part, believed that, on the basis of expert analyses of this project, it would be possible to achieve greater coal efficiency, stable and cheaper supply of electricity, and not insignificant or much more important, cleaner environment in the valley, which is already so degraded due to the presence of the thermo-energy and mining industries, of course, can remain a rhetorical issue, but the fact that rarely anyone wants worse for his people if they offer them better. We will, of course, support the report, because it is also important to point out that it is not only enough to identify political responsibilities, but that responsibility must be substantively and criminally demanded of those who have actually led and implemented the project, from management and from various lobbying groups. As has already been said, the report concludes that the first price information was agreed or commissioned at the Zagozhen-Dervarič meeting before appropriate confirmations in the form of expert analyses were obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u67	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interim report on the essential findings and on the proposal for a decision and amendment by Ambassador Maruša Škopac and Ambassador Sasa Tabakovic to the proposal for a decision. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor. Prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and Mr Jan Škoberne. Don't you? Then Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor. Prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u68	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So, as is clear from the reference, today we are considering the final report of the Commission of Inquiry to identify the political responsibilities of public function holders in the case of an investment in TES 6, where the National Assembly on this ten-year saga, which the public knows primarily as, regrettably, an infamous investment that has cost us a great deal because of the policy of all citizens and will, in view of the results of the report, also stand in the future, finally put an end to it. Based on the final report, which was also a public observation day, we can say that only research work was done correctly by the Commission. It is up to all of us Members of this call, regardless of what our political provenance is, to think carefully and to reason on what the final content will be, that is, what will actually be the final epilogue of the investigative work, which will manifest itself through the conclusions tabled, as well as through both amendments to these conclusions. So what will really stand before this peak that the National Assembly will give in its name today? This seems to me to be something that the public from us is certainly expecting. The objectives of the Commission were very clear at the beginning of the work. They examined the actual circumstances of the public procurement of the investment in the TES Block 6, the circumstances of the increase in the strength of the TES Block 6 and the price of the investment, as well as the analysis of the supply quality of the coal price and the stock of Coal Velenje, which were, of course, also the basis for the investment to the extent that we know today. Here, of course, the question is whether these analyses were taken into account, for what purpose they might not have been, whether they were even adapted and what the final response of the then policy was, that is, the then government or then the Prime Minister, the competent district ministers, HSE, TES, Coal Velenje on the one hand, and, of course, also the ranges for decisions and developments within the then State Assembly on the other. The key findings of today's final report are in fact incredibly disturbing and only confirm the assumptions that have already emerged in the public past through various media. The most significant facts revolve around the price and exploitation of coal. This was certainly a fraud, which has also fundamentally changed the results of the calculations in favour of the economic or economic investment in TEM 6 even though there were reasonable doubts at all about the sufficient amounts of coal that would have to be used in the future, unfortunately we know this today, even by imports. Of course, the question arises as to how much this investment will continue to cost us in the closure and rehabilitation of Velenje Coal Mines and what role has the coal status and stocks played in the final sense of the investment itself, and what status have individuals actually had, perhaps even members of the supervisory boards of companies directly involved in this fraud. To manipulate, we can say that the report also shows that the most misleading around the coal price itself, which has increased remarkably soon after the adoption of the 440 million euro law of the Member State. Yes, of course, we do not talk about the work that touches the environment and its inhabitants. When a person reads this report, he sees that in reality all the deceptions around the meaning and eligibility of the investment to the public as well as a certain part of the policy have certainly been deliberate and well thought out, and I can personally define them as a type of economic crime that has certainly reached the highest peak of the policy at that time, which means that the farce around TES has certainly not happened by chance. It is sad that the consequences for the time being are not so much the ones who are directly involved in this story, but unfortunately the citizens and citizens who are going to have to recover this story from their pockets, as of course if we look at it more widely, even those who may once have good intentions in politics, will be very quickly burned because of such stories that we are witnessing to them today, but that all politicians are the same. It seems to me to point out that not all politicians are the same, and even if we agree on different issues, that in different political economic affairs, everyone is guilty, then there will certainly never be anyone to blame. Therefore, it is also necessary to be very precise in the search for responsibility. As you know, the Commission, at the initiative of the SMC, voted or proposed three conclusions resulting from the final report to inform the law enforcement authorities of their competences immediately of the final report due to the suspicion of criminal service in connection with the investment in the TES-6 block. Similarly, the conclusions proposed the initiation of procedures for determining actual liability for the conduct resulting from the report itself and, as a consequence, to the extent necessary, to apply for the recovery of the damage caused. The two conclusions endorsed by the Commission are, in fact, the logical continuation of the work of the Commission of Inquiry, which will be taken over by law. A decision has also been proposed to establish the direct political responsibility of the three holders of public functions, Mr Pahor, Mr Križanič and Mr Lahovnik, because it is clear from the report that the three were designated politically most responsible for this inheritance investment in the light of the circumstances. It is true that the project was created in the time of the government of Janez Janša, so it is also recorded in the final report, because it certainly did not give the project much thought, but when we discuss the circumstances, we must not ignore the fact that economic growth was positive at the time and, of course, this political fascination over major state projects is also understandable. After all, investment has also been included in the resolution on national development projects, but we must not forget that the value of the project was somehow estimated at €600 million in terms of public-private investment and the maximum price of €2.25 per gigajoule. This is because the circumstances then changed dramatically in 2009, and of course there was an economic crisis in which the country was not prepared. Similarly, the country's credit ratings have shrunk to the bottom and, we can say, also because of these circumstances, there have been some sort of political instability in the first place, and yet, here we have to be precise and correct, but later two Members, Mr Kontic and Mr Meh, from the types of SD with the guarantee law pressured Mr Pahor's government and the National Assembly to adopt the law. Now, if I can somehow understand that Members' wishes and political appetites are usually greater, of course, the government, headed by Mr Pahor, Mr Lahovnik as Minister of Economy and Mr Križanič, then the finance ministers, as the project's executor, who were actually entrusted by citizens with the management of state property, can be said, in the light of the report, without specific professional consideration and also the commitment to work for the benefit of citizens, to support a project which then grew to 1.4 billion euros out of these planned 600 million. This means that both Mr Pahor, Mr Lahovnik and Mr Križanič, as holders of public functions, can also be said to have bowed down under various pressures, perhaps lobbying, I don't know, as well as possibly the wishes of individuals and, at the final stage, to all citizens and citizens, with an investment which unfortunately will remain a bottomless bag, which shows already, if we look at it, an estimate of the coal that has now risen to almost 3 euros per gigajul. Why is that important? This is important because all the indicators in 2009 actually rang the red alarm that the project is financially questionable or that the financial structure is questionable. There was much to be said that it was necessary to reconsider the project, and then, of course, they made a loud warning and also opposed the direct part of the profession, and the investment process also continued for the approval of the Government or all three of them. Why? This is, of course, a question for law enforcement authorities who will have to investigate this fact. In fact, Mr Borut Pahor's Government at the time knew that this was a missed overinvestment, but, as the communication put it, it relied on the contractual fact that Slovenia could lose 25 million in the event of a break-up, which was paid for the project and, of course, at this point, I wonder how such two prominent economists, both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, really understand some basic ratio of 25 million to 1.4 billion euros. I think that's actually a scary fact. It is frightening that they continued to invest in such a way that they did not actually return later. It is frightening because Mr Pahor is now taking up one of the highest functions in the country, and the other two are still somehow trying to be a “opinion of the Maker” about the economic and economic behaviour of the State, which I think is a complete absurd and hence the final conclusions that require the political responsibility of all three actors. Today, two decisions or two amendments have also been tabled for the final report on the investment in TES Block 6, which will be sent to the National Assembly for a criminal complaint concerning the investment in TES 6. I will, to be honest, admit that I was a little surprised by the statement made by the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Hanžk, at the press conference, which said there would be no complaints about the report. This is mainly because, for the first time, parliamentary practice is such that usually such calls are more in the President's domain, especially since, at the hearing itself, it was decided that, in order to give false testimony to Mr Dermol, who was the director of the TES from 2013 to 2014, based on the report, she testified at the hearing about the eligibility of the funds spent within the investment, that the construction or extension of the railway track to Block 6 was necessary due to the delivery of the 400 tonnes generator transformer, although it was clear from the documentation that transport in the TES area to the construction site was carried out on special means of transport in 2013, including when the railway track to which she had been cited was built or extended in 2015. This statement is, of course, a false testimony, for which it is right that a person should also be duly approached, but this statement is indeed a symptom. Symptoms that we actually get from the investment of TES 6 or for some form of system, how the funds in this investment have certainly been untransparently shared, how at some point obviously certain people were in fact very self-evident and also self-use of taxpayer money, of course, thinking that politics will probably somehow make sure that in the end everything will probably be OK, that things will somehow get under the rug. Thus, this decision, or this amendment, which I am referring to, has been voted on, the same decision was voted on at the hearing of the Commission of Inquiry on 23 March this year, unfortunately not yet implemented. Thus, due to the fear that he would remain unrealized, we have again submitted him to be judged by the National Assembly today. If, of course, one of the Members thinks that it is necessary to charge anyone else for false testimony, of course, to justify it properly, of course, in the SMC Group we will also be happy to support any reasonable suspicion. An amendment was also tabled if you would like a decision to be made by the National Assembly to inform the three public function holders who are justly suspected of unlawful abandonment in the event of an investment by TEŠ 6, based on the decision on the political responsibility of Mr Pahor, Mr Križanič and Mr Lahovnik, it is unlikely that such a decision can be a surprise. All three should and could, on the basis of the information available to them at the time of the Pahor government, be sure to avoid any adverse effects on the functioning of the State or at least reduce the public financial risk of investment. They did not want to, did not terminate, although the economic circumstances had changed completely and although as a HSE Assembly they had every direct opportunity to do so. So that both Mr Pahor and Mr Križanič, as well as Mr Lahovnik, were in fact appointed to manage state property, and perhaps they did not take their functions seriously enough. I think it is right for the National Assembly to state the suspicion of a criminal offence in service under Article 258 of the Penal Code, where, of course, all three of them will be able to explain to the law enforcement authorities why they did what they did or why they did not. I don't think the work of the investigative commission was convinced by their testimony. However, the fact is that we are members, members of the Commission of Inquiry or alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry, to carry out our work to the end and to adopt, in the light of the report, also certain decisions which must be duly substantiated and also put into a certain context at today's plenary session. I believe that it is only in this way that the integrity of this Commission of Inquiry can be protected, not only by this Commission of Inquiry, but also by all further investigative commissions and the National Assembly. In fact, we must never impress Members in the National Assembly, in particular if we are members or alternate members of the Commissions of Inquiry, that the Commission of Inquiry does not want to identify all the different types of responsibilities of the competent public function holders, but that it is solely to be satisfied with political only, which is certainly crucial, this needs to be stressed, but does not rule out suspicion on the basis of documentation of any criminal responsibility, at least under our existing legislation. By supporting the report in the parliamentary group, we will also support all the conclusions as well as the proposed amendment to the proposed conclusions. Hoping, of course, that the law enforcement authorities would do their work at least as correctly as the members of the commission of inquiry did, of course for the sake of [[?]] The fact that the public will not once again tell us in folklore that we are living in a country that does not deserve that name. I think today's vote on the conclusions and amendments to the proposed blind certainly is a mature test of what kind of political hygiene in our country we really want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u69	The text shall be delivered by a representative of the applicant, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u70	Thank you very much, President. I may have been misheard or misinterpreted at a press conference, but I didn't think I'd be making any special criminal charges, and there was one reason. It is that I, five or six years ago, did not hold me for a date, gave a criminal complaint against all these three politicians, and some other politicians, and I have already done it in some other function, I do not know why I would repeat this same act. Now all the material is extra. And on the basis of that criminal complaint I made five years ago and other charges, the police then began an investigation into TES6. And that's why I didn't see the point of preventing it. However, each member had the opportunity to propose to the Commission that we do so. Finally, SMC proposed and we did it. That's why I'm special, I'd say I don't mind or even support this other amendment, because this amendment just confirms what I did five years ago. I've been in the world a long time, I've done a lot of things, so sometimes I can let one go because I've done one in my old life. And secondly, Peter Dermol, we talked, I agree with that, the only thing is, in my memory, I can't do everything, I went through thousands of pages, and in the end I wrote 200 pages. I have a feeling that other than Peter Dermol has claimed the same thing about the rail track. And that's just a little bit of me, I'd say, a little bit of a problem for us to insinuate one, but not the other three. Not that we didn't charge him, but the other three didn't, which is why I'm more of an opinion that we do what we did, give it to the police, let it do. The police and the D.A. have been monitoring all our interrogations. I also got information from the other side that something was wrong, and so on. But above all, they know everything that anyone has lied to. Like I said, I don't mind, it's just a silly criminal charge if we give one lady and the others don't. They also lied, my colleague Škoberne has already talked about the price of coal. I think we've got ten people who can prove them wrong. On the other hand, I can remind us that this is very difficult to prove. Everyone says, I forgot, I didn't know, I really didn't remember. That doesn't mean we don't press charges, I just doubt there's gonna be a lot going through because it's hard to prove to someone that he's forgotten. But let's do it. And there are still some such things that each individual, as well as Members, and even if we are not Members, we can still make a criminal application. And I'd like to ask you a question. Here is more information, they wrote: “Because the decision of the President of the Commission of Inquiry is no longer to meet.” I really don't know when I stopped the investigation committee from meeting. I told you, I don't see the need anymore when we accepted. But if anyone else had the statute of inquiry, they would have called it in. Just because there's no one to suggest I didn't call her. But I didn't stop anyone. So please either explain this sentence or delete it with the next amendment because I did not prevent anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u71	Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. Yes, sometimes I agree here with my colleague Tabakovic, the problem is that at least at the declaration level, someone wants to bring things to an end, but not really clean. And then you use an intermediate route. One of these is that, say, you're suing someone, someone you're not. Now I can assume you didn't do it because you wanted to protect someone in particular. But to me, with everything we know and the conclusion of the commission, that doesn't seem to be a good way to go. However, I would also like to support the proposed amendments tabled by the SMC today, but I would rather support them by deciding on a stricter standard. As you know, the announcement of suspicion does not bring any responsibility for the one who declares it if it turns out to be false or malicious and so on. If a criminal charge is lodged requiring a higher standard, it also means that someone is responsible for the false complaint. You do understand what I'm saying, don't you? At some point, it is very opportunistic to announce something, and after it turns out to be unrealistic, I announced it in good faith, but it turned out to be unrealistic, the dogs will lay down their own, the caravan will move on. However, you may harm someone, but you may be able to prove excused, but it is true that by doing so we are criminalizing the suspicion of the crime of something that is already referred to as a report and something that law-abiding law-abiding law enforcement authorities are pursuing, but yes, this is one part of this folklore that will obviously not change for another time in our lives and this is a selective perception of the truth and this is a selective desire to get things to the bottom and to the end. Therefore, once again, what I have pointed out in my position would be right not only to identify political responsibility, but also criminal and material responsibility, and that it will not happen, for example, that there will be no response to the complaint or to the complaints made by Mr Hanžek five years ago, six years ago, that I do not say until when. It is necessary to know whether the epilogues are guilty or not. The worst part is that everything ends up on the level of slander. And political responsibility, I am a very proud heir to this chair to the two excellent representatives of the Shale Valley of Mr Kontic and Mr Mech. Their political responsibility to believe in the document under which Dr. Mining Sciences was signed, and Dr. Economic Sciences, who said that in the Valley of Shaleska, better air, more coal and more jobs will be used, and that, indeed, in their name, I accept this responsibility for this part, I would do the same, and I myself would say that in discussions around the second track, I am probably not an engineer, nor a tunnel mine, but to someone I have to believe and I have decided that the second track is important and that it is worth supporting if any investigator in the next term, but probably not because of the model, but because of what else, I will be required for the same political responsibility and for this political responsibility today that I bear it and that I bear it with dignity and responsibility and therefore I am here. Why we are now talking about a micro-detail of political responsibility, and we miss out on the fact that someone was a member of the Active Oversight Commission and couldn't tell what they were doing and what their tasks were, and then became the director of the Termoelectrica Šostanij, that we were not talking about why 2007 and who stuck the price before the studies happened. We can also ask ourselves why and how, in a letter signed by Bojan Kontič, when he asked how he would without a shaft, how at this price, we doubt that this is profitable, get the answers of the managements of three HSE, TES and PV actors that it is feasible that this is good that this is a great no. These people, with their academic titles and their responsibility as managers, bear some other responsibility than merely political, criminal and material. In the report, if you have read it, I believe that most of it is not, all of these stories are very detailed and political responsibility needs to be accepted, it will also have to be accepted today by the President of the Republic, in what way he will decide and will tell himself, but the fact that the project has not even started or ended at a time when he led the Government. That he specifically requested the establishment of a professional council, why and how he was not called will be told by those who ran it at the time, but this must never happen again, because the fact is that we will need important and large infrastructure projects in the country. And at least, as soon as possible, we will face the question of what to do with a nuclear power plant, including how to pay for its decomposition. Even before we ask ourselves whether we need a second block, it would probably be wise, as Faraday would say, to clean up the table and face this problem, including the question of why, at the end of all electricity contracts, we will be paying solarly 10 billion subsidies, and why, say, the installation of this produces 7 times less electricity at the same cost of installation as that of TES. Finally, if I were to rhetorically ask myself how much electricity would cost if we were to import it in the year after which, say, TES produced 40% of all electricity in the country. But these are just rhetorical questions, as it sometimes seems, the question of truth is rhetorical. I want to get to the bottom of this story and I want to make sure it doesn't happen again. And that is why, honourable amendment-makers, I would also use a more resilient standard. However, let a criminal charge be filed, and let it be said what act, when, where, leaving was done. Let us also take responsibility that there may be no sense of slander, no sense of dishonesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u73	Replica, Mr. Sasha Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u74	Yes, thank you very much. I have to take this. Of course, I don't have any need to protect anyone, unlike Mr Škobernet, given that he comes from a party that is actually responsible for this inherited investment that we are dealing with today. In fact, we are also interested in this sympathetic verbal exercise, when, of course, we try to compromise the proposer in some way today without the desire to make an honest definition of ourselves to the proposed conclusions and amendments themselves. I already told you. If anyone thinks that anyone else needs to be accused of false testimony, that of course they can, then every Member has this opportunity to propose it, of course, it must be justified accordingly. And in the parliamentary group, we will, in fact, if there is reason to believe so, also such a proposal would be willing to do so. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] They're backing us up. But of course I can't agree to this philosophy of watering, when somehow the guilt is trying to spread out somehow, because then the fact remains that in the end it's nobody to blame. And that's something that, of course, I'll never agree to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u75	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Commission has done a good job investigating the investment itself, and I am personally supporting the report as well as the final conclusions. Now, if I look at in general how this investment started with leadership, and the speaker in front of me pointed out certain comparisons with the construction of the second track, which is very good, in short, to put on the scale and make this comparison. However, I believe that these two investments are, indeed, somewhat similar in value, but this is an extremely, extremely significant difference. See, this building of block 6 was run by the economic company TEŠ d.o.o., which we know is in the 100 per cent state ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. The parent contract, this is said to have received the government's direct influence, was only made by a contract between TES and HSE in 2009, this is said through the supervisory authority and so on. And in fact, I can say that TESH has set up and led the investment. Now, I'd say "profession" here, because I'd run it differently. This is said to have been run by an economic company or I would have extended it a little bit, I would have called it the jesting energy lobby, because in fact a few gentlemen had to sit there together to actually justify this investment. Furthermore, the company has made a very good use of the Public Procurement Act, where strategic energy projects are not subject to public procurement as is the case with all other state investments. In short, there were no public orders here, so to speak. If I give only an example of All the biggest investments in the Republic of Slovenia as an engineer and as a consultant led the then state DDC, today the state DRI with the expertise of about 350 experts of engineers. [[…]] Do you know what the realisation of DDC at TES investment was? EUR 9,000 in investment is a billion 440 million. Nine thousand euros. The largest state-owned engineer who led the largest investment in the Republic of Slovenia except for energy projects. This is a very clear indicator of how public procurement was also carried out. Now I look at the second track. The second track, when the projects were not yet completed, was put by the Government at the second track construction bill. But here the government has strongly reached into the profession in an inappropriate way. Definitions of concessionaires and determination of value for the project when neither project documentation was completed. There are two extremely different approaches here, and in my opinion no one is exactly the right one, which would be optimal for the finances of the Republic of Slovenia. So, here these comparisons and of course these things in both investments with the way they are built absolutely, we absolutely cannot put on the common denominator because it is a completely different approach. A completely different approach. And of course then, it is said, it is the way and approach and then the continuation, of course, but then we are at a price. We know that the 5 investment programmes, the 6th was never confirmed, which came to a billion 440, the last 5 was a billion 302 million, and every amendment of the investment programme of the new item inside with new investment needs to ensure this financing and, of course, the same coal price, once with a new export shaft that we know was never made, then the second time with the construction of an import railway connection that was made before, which would not have been necessary at all. In short, only justification in such a different way to justify the growth of this investment. This is said, in a variety of ways, not ways to justify these investments, are, I would say, at the edge of some crime if you justify already such works and those projects that have actually been made, or are you sure that they will never have to be built. [[…]] This is in the context of all six investment innovations of the value of construction. Look inside at the content itself and, of course, grow from that 690 million to a billion 440. Then it's really hard to estimate what the real value of building a 6th block thermoelectric power plant is. In short, as I said in the introductions, the conclusions are good, I support these conclusions and, above all, with the confidence that indeed those identified errors that are indeed detrimental to the state budget and, of course, those responsible for actually giving clear answers to the table. In short, and that such actions and such investment management approaches are no longer repeated in the energy work.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u77	The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't really agree with the speakers in front of me on a whole series of things. Why? With your finger on it, it's professional. Here I agree, the composition of the expert committee, 8 people with a doctorate in science, probably also some professors, a master and so on. But respectable gentlemen! If anything has happened in this good quarter of the century in the Republic of Slovenia, there has been politicisation of professions in this deteriorating sense. If the professions weren't sold out, the professions, if they were critical, you stayed at the edge. I can talk about myself. Because sometimes I opened my mouth up and down, I almost signed contracts for six months, for one year, more resilient. [[?]] My ex-students have been regularly employed. In short, if someone from the profession pushed this down, you pushed them down by old policies. Now, we must not be waving a document here, the position has said, because the data is outdated, where we have, who in a bad decade has earned as a consultant, so-called profession, more than 200,000 euros. You have hired such, one, the other, the fifth, the sixth government, among them also in the most visible place of any lady, the first Minister of Education of this Government, you may even remember the name and surname she received, so much so that the lady should have at least 50 hours of the day, if not 70, to actually fold all of this. Now, there was talk of names. The purpose of the investigator is also to understand how this happened and how this was not to happen. Now, some of the old policies you're dragging out, the SMC here almost half a bit of an orgasm, but I apologize to you gentlemen, we had state forests, we had Magno, when as the MEP from Maribor I learned more about Magna in Austria, and in Hungary when I was told by the Secretary of State, Mr Trček, if we wanted, I would come and tell you something. We have this second-track accident, which is definitely for the investigator for the next reference. Now, from this somehow, as the SDS puts it, although I can understand their logic here, someone might conclude, aha, if some company is a legal entity in 100% state ownership, that's a little different, then almost politics is not that responsible anymore. And I wouldn't go to any DRI gentlemen who get drunk, and on Planica, they're going for someone's ass. And you know, for each literally, I'm going to say what I have at the end of my language, shit in Slovenia that's a little bit of a profession, and then politics gets confused. You set them up. There's a problem. And here the professions have also sold, which is what I call a little professorial, professional deontology. That's basically the ethics, ethics and morality Cerar likes to snore about. Now that I'm looking at these nips, you know what that reminds me of? Usually in Slovenia, most of you are crazy about cars. Reminds me of that Saturday paper, and when I open it, there are press pages, and it says, I don't know, this middle-class car, the basic price, I don't know, 35,000 euros, and we journalists drove that car for 55,000 euros. Probably every citizen, a citizen, knows that this car is the same name, but there is something very different. We have probably come to this when we talk about political hygiene, because of lazi politics, because politics is too curious. The SMCs were talking about what it would be like if they were me at the time, but I think if they had this on their wallpaper today, they'd probably have a Hanzek sitaril, and I'd be squeezing, and maybe someone else, when it comes to energy, would take a speedboat across someone like Mr. Mojet where, and I'm afraid that somehow that would be it. Of course, it's hard to be a serious politician. You slap sometimes together with exhaustion, but you have to ask yourself. Speaking of this lignite, Hanzek and I were talking, ex-wife, giving birth to a difficult, ex-mother-in-law surgery, and we ordered that lignite, and I was swearing like the last furman every morning before I went to bed, when I started working that ash I was throwing away. At that level, someone would be a little reasonable to ask, wait, is that really such a calorie value? Is this price really drinking water? But you obviously weren't so curious at the time, or if you wanted to, you weren't responsible enough to ask yourself that question. After the N.I.P.s have grown like that, because I'm not going to charge you, I'm not going to put that number here, because we all know, and obviously somehow it was drinking water. Now what comes out of this is, in fact, if a Spanish woman decides somewhere, how very easy it is to avoid Slovenian politics. And this is some key message for me. And that's some of the biggest problems in fact. Then you grab a little bit of good pear, you pump some people in the valley, how great it's gonna be, even though you're actually pulling buttons, and then you come up with some facts that have been done. And then you come up with this story that you put one, two lawyers on the side, on the other hand, Alstom has three global law firms that are taking you to the Scat, and there's a little bit of pierre jamming and we're where we are. And after almost four years in the National Assembly, I'm afraid we're not as important as we should be. But also the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest, if it were not for this Commission, because it is written as a stunt, if it were not for this Commission, with all due respect for Hanzko and for all the departments as it has done, we would not have done so. After all, we were also politically responsible in Levica alone. Now there is no more parliamentary group to prevent anyone from trespassing. I'm a little scared in some other parliamentary group, if someone went their own way, that they'd start guessing to destroy the investigator. Of course, we definitely didn't do it. We still love Hanzko. I can tell you the truth. One thing you've written here is uniqueness. We like to be insanely unique all the time. Sometimes it's nice to say, okay, we have a human fish, we have that exact human fish in White Krajina. But if someone starts selling you a story like that, if you're looking around a little bit to find out that it's something in the middle of something, that it's not a typical little, that it's not a typical thing anymore, but that it's a little bit to avoid, you might as well start thinking about. Someone would have to think a lot more seriously, because he was also part of the profession that was saying, what is the caloric value of coal, how would it be with the reconstruction of block 4 and 5 that would be produced there - how much Hanžek? - a circus of good 200 million, could pump this coal to the end, would not play the canpa and, of course, would also be thinking about the energy inefficiency of Slovenia, because we are also actually whispering a lot. All of this didn't actually happen. And the responsibility lies with the politicized profession, lies with the politics of swindled management and, of course, lies with some irresponsible, not inquisitive policy, which is very easy to play. Whom to blame, who not, we have a predictive procedure, we have a third branch of power. But I personally believe that after 30 years that [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] If not earlier today, Mr Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, should resign in order to allow for another and a different policy in this country. But, you know, before we nod our heads, I mean, fuck, we elect him people. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u79	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u80	I often wonder if we can even count in this country. Previously, we had a report on the purchase of vascular cords and we saw a bunch of errors, exceeding the price four times and so on, and also this project is about similar things. If the project was initially estimated at 600 million, then the price went up to a billion 400 million, yes, at first sight there is something strange. In Slovenia, we also have good experts who have proven themselves and proved themselves, and finally our economy is functioning, so this country can still operate. And I wonder whether politicians responsible for deciding functions really give enough words to the profession or are only looking at the current benefit of an individual in a certain environment or a party at some time. That's exactly how I feel about this project. The lobby of these valleys, which is often talked about, and also that some politicians or political parties have been in the same environment for too long. I have repeatedly thought about proposing that the mayor could only be two mandates, and I am very much in favour of the municipalities. I know that the mayoral function is a difficult function, a responsible function, and, on the other hand, it is always shown that where one option is too long in power, connections and lobbying are highly charged. And in a similar way, it also happened in this project, and those who want to fish in mud or benefit from it, of course, say that money doesn't smell, have also formed some unfair coalitions in the sharing of various projects or prey at the same time. And that is why such important projects should certainly have a very, very important role to play, of course, officials, politicians make decisions, decision-makers in the end, but without a profession such projects should never be decided and without a wider consensus. And it is sad that, again and again, of course, we can all be smart, back and again we can all be generals, but we have too many such sad stories in Slovenia, when we lost millions and unfortunately even billions. And mainly because of the irresponsible behavior of certain officials and related lobbyists, both in health care, earlier in the construction of highways, in banking, everywhere where there is money, there are too many people there who are interested in how to get this money into their pocket. Of course, this report is burdened mainly by three officials, the then Prime Minister, the current current President, Borut Pahor, then Finance Minister Križanič and Minister of Economy, Lahovnik, who are most responsible. And I remember exactly what happened at the time when it was repeatedly stressed that we cannot stop the project because we have already invested too much in it. It would probably be wiser if we stopped it when we put in a little bit and not when we put too much into it and we would invest in such a transport project, I fear that there is something similar in the second track and that if we decide on such important huge projects, I think it should be not only professional but also more political consensus if we want to keep this country, but we will always have reports of lost, missed, imported projects, in fact, of irresponsible behaviour.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u81	Yes, is Mr. Jani Möderndorfer speaking, or are we moving immediately? Prepare Dr. Dragan Matić and Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u82	Yes, I'm sorry, but I've heard that there are at least two or three more in front of me, and now I see that some have simply given up, given up, which is clear from this empty hall. It's hard to talk about things that happened years and years ago, but it's true that they started at the time, and then they just kept going. One of the reasons that, when the TES investigative committee was set up, was, of course, that and then, if you remember, there were debates about why this commission of inquiry had not been given a mandate before. Since it was the basis for this completely on hand, but it is difficult, if actors are still active and still working, to open a “case” for which they will not, of course, agree, then there will be no coalition, then virtually a lot of things would not go together. And that's why I'm not surprised, I'm going to say, very well-intentioned, but a very "polite" debate by a fellow Member of Skobernet, who in fact says in a way why he's proud, but I'm going to say why I'm not proud. I'm not proud, because at the right moment the one who should not have played, is the one who trusted him to run with state companies, I'm not proud of the Government that started this project without reflection, but it wasn't too late, I'm not proud of the Government that could have stopped this project and not stopped it, and more about it, I'll talk about it later when I'm talking about political responsibility and I'm not proud then, of course, of course, even the National Assembly, which was, when everything was already very deep in the whole story, I tried first with one guarantee law, then because I failed in the next mandate with the second guarantee law that we would actually be guaranteed to pay for things as long as those who should have paid them for what they were waiting for, of course they had to answer why it was problematic and why all the alarms should be ringing? Above all, it is problematic, because such important laws, I will repeat again, always submitted by Members, that was the 440 million euro Guarantee Act, and I ask you kindly, and this is never submitted by a Member, always submitted by the Government, the Government with some opinion, with some, with some documentation where it goes before Members and explains to them why it is necessary and why not. And the first such guarantee law, which was then filed by the mayor of Velenje, I always forget, Kontic, I apologize, has already fallen on the committee, but I remember in the previous term how this lobbying for this law took place here in the halls of the National Assembly when Mr Meh arrived, that everything would collapse if it did not. In fact, the problem that I intend to point out is this because even then all the alarms were actually ringing, but it was all against the end of the term, and of course there was a situation that we were all wondering where this was actually going, how much, ever, and how much more it would take to invest in this missed investment, of course. At that time, there was a discussion, and those of you who were in this mandate at the time, remember that the Austrians also made a nuclear power plant, and before it started, they stopped it. But we don't even know how much it costs or where it's going to go. Of course, we've been talking about the darkness in Slovenia, I don't know what else. Today, however, we heard the Member say he was proud that he was cleaner than air. They don't talk about the consequences, they don't talk about the damage that's caused, they talk about the fraud of politics, about the fraud of documents, etc., and I don't even tell him about it because there were no politicians at the time, at least at the state level, and it didn't, I believe, have an impact on him being able to work. Well, what's important to me is that when we discussed the position report, I put a very clear question to the President of the Commission of Inquiry, if a colleague remembers, I said the following, that this is only half of the work, that I was interested in what happened to the other half and what is waiting for us, or where all of these are responsible now, because, in fact, as I said at the previous point in the inquiry committee on the venous resistors, I asked when we would come to political responsibility, because the investigative commission has a fundamental task and we all forget this time in the investigative commissions that this is the main objective of the investigation, but everything else is for the background and the event and, of course, whatever happens, we know where the path is and who should report it to. Today, we have a proposal on the table that we will vote on the political responsibility of both the President, the former Prime Minister of the then term of office of Borut Pahor and, of course, the two ministers to whom the then President of the Government and the SDS parties are voicing that he trusted his two ministers. In fact, the President of the Government cannot function only on this point, that he trusts someone, trusts them, trusts them, does nothing, but does nothing and simply does not have any serious reflection, especially because even when he was no longer Prime Minister of the Government, he was one of those who supported the guarantee law for 440 million. So even then, he was convinced that this was really the right thing to do, and of course, nothing is questionable. I wonder, of course, what will end up with us from where we draw the line, and okay, we will vote today if we come to this, political responsibility, and what then. And then what? We already get "feedback" today and in fact in some way the answers, of course the journalists are interested in some things moving a little faster, and today we hear that I have already paid my price by not being elected to the elections when I was running again for parliament or for the party to form the government and I have taken political responsibility in this way. Now whether we are so high in political culture that we can clear up on our own when and what steps are needed, because I am sure that in very well-aware countries, based on a serious research article in the paper, people would actually give up, there would be no need for an investigative commission, but in any case it would later take place. We're talking about two more ministers, exes. Two ministers who, of course, are not anyone. We are talking about Mr Lahovnik, who is actually no longer an official today. What, in fact, can he do with this political responsibility? Mr Lahovnik is still a professor at the Faculty of Economics and teaches future graduates how to do right in the economy. Is that possible? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, then, please. It's what, in fact, is responsible to individuals in some way. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] President, may [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u83	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u84	My friend Han, I know you're in trouble, but let me finish up saying it right, and then you can discuss it yourself. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u85	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u86	Yes, thank you very much, colleague Han. Then there is Mr Križanič, former Minister, who teaches at the Economic Institute for Macroeconomics, evaluating current trends and predicting future economic trends. A man who keeps saying that he wasn't properly informed or that he was being deceived or that he couldn't do anything or that he couldn't do anything. I simply don't believe these things anymore because they appear too often in stories where they never really know anything. I have once debated that the worst thing that happens to politicians is political dementia. We have established a Society of Monuments, where they fight to alleviate problems for people with dementia, and on the other hand we have policies that promote political dementia. I mean, one thing just doesn't go together. I understand that, of course, everyone sees a certain situation from his own point of view and evaluates and thinks it is right, but, for God's sake, let's pour pure wine. It's not just a problem when we get someone in a bag with their hand or wet their finger in the honey. And all we do is make excuses for whether he's signed under a document or whether he's made a decision or not. Let us ask ourselves once when someone will be responsible even when he has done nothing and should do so, and he has turned away. And I am talking about this political culture, which should actually start to develop slowly in Slovenian space and is actually close to many people in developed democracies, but I know it is not easy, so of course I will support such a conclusion. Everything else that follows, of course, and those who have and need to find out what my colleague Škoberna was talking about, should identify those who are invited to do so in this country. We find political responsibility and this is essentially the most crucial thing. As far as the rest of this is concerned, I can tell the Commission that she's done a good job, the only thing I don't understand is how can you say in public that the commission is done and that it's disbanded? Your commission still exists because if it didn't exist, we wouldn't be discussing the report here today. And you're still the chairman of the commission of inquiry. In fact, this is very important because it creates the impression that nothing will ever be done again. Here is a modest criticism that, of course, we also need to respect in our own types the rules of the game, which we have very clearly written down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u87	Mr. Jan Škoberne's replica first.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u88	Thank you very much, President. I don't know if you were here when I spoke or if you misunderstood me, but I'm proud of my two predecessors, and far from being proud of how it is, and now, if we look at the Court of Auditors report, we're getting Ljubljana to this project and HSE, and the coal mine. But I'm proud of that, too, yes, of the pure air. And let's not be too grotesque and ironic, I remember the bronchitis on my own case because of the hard particles and the ashes and so on, and when we couldn't eat lunch outside, because it's ashes. Maria will tell you she can do it from her own experience. This rehabilitation, which began in the year of my birth with a great protest in the Shaleska Valley for the pure environment, is something we can be proud of. And yes, for us living in the Shale Valley, I believe that Sasha doesn't know that because he doesn't live there, the promise of cleaner air was very important. One way or another more than the promise of more jobs. Now, as far as the Memorial and this is concerned, I will just say somewhere in the introduction, Matjaž can probably say more precisely, it says that the idea of the new block has evolved within the LDS and that, of course, was an important part of this, I think you were talking about it, too, the possibility of coal imports, which may be the final result. [[…]] Inside the LDS. They were there with Dervaric, if I'm not mistaken, a member of this same party, you two. That's all I'm saying. I understand, but let's be correct in all aspects of the truth, that's what I was saying at the beginning. And yes, responsibility must be taken, to the end and to the full, not selectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u89	Mr Matjaž Hanžek, President of the Commission of Inquiry, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Jani, you really made a terrible mistake when I said at the press conference that with the committee meeting, the work of the commission was over. But they're meeting with the National Assembly. I thought someone would criticize the report more, but given that it's not such a disaster with the report, and if you ask for mine, I'd say political responsibility for this terrible mistake, [[?]] Yes, it is. I'd like to step down at the time, but then I'd let the other members have countless interviews, everything else that weighs heavily on me, and I don't like them, because I don't need a performance, but mostly I'm bad at talking, but I had to take over it, and I didn't give up after that session, but I'm gonna do it now, because I'm just gonna do it or after that press conference, and I'm gonna quit today or you're gonna fire me. [[…]] So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u91	Replica Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u92	President, you don't have to apologize or take political responsibility. [[Incomprehensible]] I mentioned this in particular because it would not become a habit in the future to explain that the work was finished. Indeed, today's work, if the report is adopted and the conclusions are reached, will then end the work of the Commission of Inquiry. So there's no problem here. So I don't personally see any serious problems. In particular, it was my intention only to point out that, in fact, with the amendments in fact, it was concluded that this work was the crown of what every commission of inquiry had to do to determine whether or not it had found political responsibility. It was my wish for, I mean, a message, nothing else. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u93	Dr Dragan Matić has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Today's debate on the report of the Commission of Inquiry is associated with me as if the Commission of Inquiry is some centre for social work that wants to assign this abandoned child - political responsibility to those who should logically take him for their own, and this abandoned orphan - no one likes political responsibility and they all do. In its first mandate, the government of Janez Janša has travelled through the project in such a way that it is all excited by the dizzying economic growth that has risen on inflated balloons of speculation to verify the reality of the input data, such as the price of coal and coal stocks. Furthermore, the approach to this issue was also demonstrated by the absence of a legal basis for the largest energy investment for half a century, when TES 6 included in the resolution on national development projects, together with the remarkable construction of the island in front of Isola and the Ptuj Lake tourist complex. However, this resolution of course did serve as a basis for this investment to the SDS government, which was later confirmed by the Constitutional Court. [[Incomprehensible]] In order for the matter to be done even better, TES 6 was exempted from the obligation to order, thanks to SDS Minister Andrej Visiak, despite the fact that Andrej Bajuk resisted for some time now, without success. With all due respect, not Janez Janša or Andrej Vizjak or anyone else from the SDS today obviously does not want to take responsibility for this project. The beautiful extensions described for project TEŠ 6 have been used by the SD government under the leadership of Borut Pahor and have been strongly upgraded. Mr Križanič, Minister of Finance, took part in this project in various roles. During the period of SDS rule, the development partnership concluded between SD and SDS was a consultant and a member of the commission that justified the need for investment and was later a member of the HSE Supervisory Board and was involved in the construction of this giant since the early stages of the project. Later, when he became a finance minister and the first man responsible for overseeing the responsible use of the taxpayer's money, he did not feel the need to draw attention to the problems with the project he had prior to his visit. As a financial expert, Mr Križanič should be aware of the questionability, the sustainability of the proposed project from input data to the method of negotiation with the supplier and, of course, the way in which prices are determined. At a time when things could stop or freeze to a moderate degree, in 2009, he did not react. And he doesn't want to take political responsibility either. He even boasts of being excluded from voting or decision-making on this project, and it would be right to point out all the risks and to demand that the HSE Assembly treat all of this in detail and seriously. It is similar with TES 6’s chief advocate, former Minister of Economy, Matthew Lachovnik. This is the man who has completely disobeyed the calls and warned the Director-General of the Energy Directorate, Janez Kopač, and of his colleague, Minister Gregor Golobic. He should also endeavour to govern this project as a HSE Assembly and take note of all the circumstances. In particular, this should be done as a responsible economist at the time of the worst economic crisis, when each euro needs to be reversed twice. Now Lahovnik pleads that he did not want to get involved in the business of companies, but is aware of the course of the largest investment in energy, not interference, but responsible conduct, which Matthew Lahovnik gave up despite warnings. And, of course, he does not take political responsibility or take it with a fig in his pocket, when he says, quote, “I take political responsibility for energy policy, but I do not take responsibility for the management of individual investment companies.” End of quote. Like Borut Pahor, he also wants to sell the thesis that it was only and only one of the individual investments of companies. A billion 400 million heavy investment is for him and Borut Pahor is only one of the individual investments of companies. Borut Pahor to the present and present pride of the Social Democrats, then the President of the Government, is today the true concept of misdirection when he spoke of political responsibility. Borut Pahor says that he trusted Križanič and Lachovnik, who, as mentioned, felt and even felt that they had no authority to interfere with the 1.4 billion difficult project. One wonders why the government existed at that time as a congregation of HSEs or whether the real government was in fact led by a lobby that was in the image of Uroš Rotnik. In this business, however, the formally elected government played only the role of a statistician in the worst sense of the word. Not once did the Government of Borut Pahor consider TEŠ6, although in its capacity as HSE Assembly in 2009, it held five meetings. And, as it is said, an investment could be stopped by the Government as the HSE Assembly, but despite the warnings of Gregor Golobič, Janez Kopač and Sasha Mervar, there is no investment. Mr Pahor is explaining today that he has taken responsibility by not receiving the Prime Minister's term of office in the next elections. The more senseless statement I have not heard in a good time, the more I have heard in the last four years in these rooms. Borut Pahor would take political responsibility if he realized that he had made such a big mistake that he would withdraw from politics rather than go back to the polls with such a travel agent. And then, with regard to political responsibility in relation to TES6 Borut Pahor, he had to be publicly pointed out that in 2012 and 2017 the voters elected him president of the Republic. How is this logical follow-up now? The Commission, which notes political responsibility, has completed its work 2018. The voters could not have known that he was politically responsible before the end of the work of the investigative commission. If Mr Pahor would like to test what the voters believe, he has a duty to resign now and to verify in the new elections how much citizens trust him. Instead of taking responsibility, Borut Pahor tries to prove to us that the electorate has either forgiven him at least half a billion serious mistakes, which will remain a bottomless bag in the future, or that they have found that Borut Pahor is worth this money. It is therefore very convenient to explain your political responsibility. But it's obvious that Borut Pahor doesn't even acknowledge a mistake, not even to take political responsibility. In his final report to the Commission on page 250, he stated at the hearing: “The witness felt right to continue investing in Block 6. Such a decision is also considered correct today, as it considered that investment was necessary and useful.” And on page 251, we can also read: “The witness is supposed to be at a time distance today, and when he sees a much clearer picture of developments around Block 6 he did very differently than in the decision to invest in Block 6. Despite some concerns, it is right that we have such an investment in Block 6.” A statement was made by the current President of the State, the then Prime Minister. So, Mr Pahor still believes that he was doing right or more or less right today. At least half a billion dollars of state money blew up in the pockets of different lobbying, but that's not so bad. More or less, I'd do the same thing. With all these statements, I am glad that Borut Pahor is not at the head of the government today. In the interests of the country, I hope that this will remain so in the future. The political responsibility of others, such as Bojan Kontič and Lucky Meh, I will not argue that I will not be too long. Probably, however, the power center in this story was much more in these two and others in the background than in the then government. So, according to the actors' statements, it seems that no one is willing to take political responsibility. TEM 6 was evidently a natural disaster of its own. And it is precisely because of all that has been said that it is necessary to support both the additional conclusions of Mr Škopac and Mr Tabakovic, as the report shows that it was a matter of abandonment of the duty of the Prime Minister and of the two ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u95	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u96	Thank you very much, President. Most of the time, I did not agree with Mr Matic's debate until now, but today I have taken on almost everything he has said and very well taken on the whole matter. As a member of the Commission of Inquiry, since I later joined the work of the Commission, I was not from the beginning, I came quite quickly to certain knowledge of what was happening there in 2007, 2008, 2009, which was crucial to this project. In 2007, of course, since the calculation showed that electricity would go up to EUR 85 per megawatt-hour, this project was, of course, viable or economical and needed to be implemented. However, later, when the crisis came, when the price of electricity fell to EUR 40 per megawatt hour later and when there was no such demand for the construction of thermal power plants, it was worth considering at that time. And in the National Assembly, former Minister Andrej Vizjak, this was May 2009, asked the question here to re-examine the usefulness of this project. It is interesting that the position at the time also voted in favour of this question and we had a debate here in the National Assembly on this. However, neither the strategic energy world has reacted nor has the government. The debate was gruesome, and the arguments were presented why this investment should be reconsidered, but none of this was true. It was heard in the hearing of certain witnesses that, not most of these members of the Strategic Energy Council, should have requested a meeting in mid-2009, but that no reference had been made, the real Prime Minister did not convene this Strategic Council. We were then misled that the 25 million we paid for the reservation, if we stopped the project, we lost, and later realized that these 25 million were both lost and lost so that it was not counted as a purchase. Well, the government was quiet all the time, as has been said, and Gregor Golobič said at the hearing that he had warned the government about this project, and was too loud or too loud. We also had a problem with the magnetograms of these government meetings at that time on the Commission for quite a long time. Well, when the first part was paid in 2009, 85 million to Alstom without asking the government earlier. At that time, that point was when the contract entered into force, when the faller jumped and there was no return since then. Well, it wasn't until the following year, in the first year, I think in January or February that the President of the Government convened the Strategic Energy Council, when it was all too late when the faller was already in the air. And then there was the Guarantee Act, because there was no going back. And the fact is that in 2009, everything was driven back then to be able to react if we were to go to a 500 megawatt thermoelectric power plant, it would be significantly cheaper because there was no demand at the time, and it would be just as sufficient as 600 megawatts, which would keep our heads hurt for a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u97	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u98	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues, colleagues! Today, we are discussing, I am sure, the biggest affair that has taken place in our country since independence. We are talking about a project that is, in fact, a case of misleading, misleading policies. For example, even today, when we want to enlighten some things, we find that many people have been reminded that many do not remember what was happening, even though they may have been in the most responsible positions at the time. Now, if we remember that at the beginning the initial price of this project was around 600 million and then it was dizzyingly growing, perhaps the most significant thing is that even today's policy, the political actors involved do not know how to take some critical stance up to, I will say these circumstances and that, in fact, everyone is actually working before the public nice, proud and not knowing what else, but perhaps they are not aware or perhaps the public should certainly be aware that the account for this investment is likely to come. To a certain extent it has already been paid, but given that it hangs over us or over the taxpayer's money, the guarantee of EUR 440 million is certainly that, I will say, this fear that once the public finances will be damaged even more so that it is in place. Now, I am pleased that this Commission, today we are looking at another report, has acted, for example, to say that compared to the previous one, significantly more neutral, significantly less political, and that this attitude, which has been taken up in this report, is significantly more objective, although we all know that the Commission is also a political body, but is significantly more objective than the report that we have considered at the previous point. Now, as far as the players involved are concerned, I think we need to deal with all actors, either from the mid-term report and those from this final report, and I am sure that we can quickly conclude, given that we are approaching some pre-election period or that it is already ahead of us, and that many times we hear the concept of a traditional tabulated party, that we can look at the report on this TES 6 and all citizens will quickly create a picture of what this really means. I think that what happened at TES 6, nobody can be proud and that obviously also that the two main so-called, so-called, tabulated, traditional parties, these are SDS and SDs, that in fact in no way were citizens, I will say, however deprived or excused or deprived of what they should be, is that, for example, this policy that dealt with the project would be predictable, transparent, on the contrary, it happened that, in fact, after some political trails, there were decisions that no one wants to define. What's more, they're moving, they're referring to each other and stuff. Now that the matter is so much more bizarre we have witnessed recently that, although it hangs over the entire project of the State guarantee, the taxpayer's money is still witnessing that the municipality of Velenje is suing TES 6 for the amount of more than 700 000 euros for the use of infrastructure in 2016, if I am not mistaken for the failure to compensate 750 000 euros for the damage in 2016 due to the use of infrastructure during the construction of block 6, I am convinced that such forecasts, such actions, will further shed a poor light on the whole project, on the entire threshold that worked in this project and that so much closer to that black scenario that can happen, it will be that once again due to the inability of paying credits will be cashed out and that all citizens will end up paying for all this demand. In this campaign we have witnessed in addition to all this perplexity and I will not be able to define myself separately, they were, they were all in the media, there was, for example, the case of President Pahor, who told him that if he did not continue this project, that he would no longer be the President of the Government, he obviously decided that the President of the Government would prefer and I will say, and similar statements that were repeatedly on tape at the hearing of these individual witnesses, I think that this is all a sign that even today, when we enter into a new period, we have a new political period ahead of some new mandate, the main political actors of this project do not show any self-critism, and I think that none of them can even promise that in any other matters will be in any kind of public interest that they will act more carefully than they have done in this case, which is not so far behind, I will say, that this project, which is actually, that it was not even in any of its actual nature, and it has no real significance, and it has started. Now that I will not spend all my time with my colleagues, see, it has been heard recently by some pre-election slogans, SDS for you, I would say that this is a typical case of SDS for them, self-confident Slovenia, despised Slovenia, respected colleagues, I am confident that the adoption of this report for which I have to say once again that I am satisfied that it has occurred in such a neutral way that the President of the Commission has not taken pictures after every camera session, before the light of the light that this report may still lead people to pure wine and will also be asked in the following cases whether to lead them in such a way, not in a transparent way, or perhaps even in the way that we have already undertaken a project in this reference, it is with a wide, wide-ranging debate before the start of the project. I am sure that those who are known in the report as the main political culprits are, of course, still in the background, but some are exposed to the need to make certain moves themselves, and we look forward to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u99	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare for Mr Simon Zajc and Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Colleagues, fellows, good-bye to everyone! Perhaps for the start of two important final reports of the investigative commissions, ministers and ministers today do not have time to identify and listen to what has been wrong in the past. Perhaps you could also say what you have done wrong yourself because the fact is that, despite today's SMC, I want to show up as the only party that has nothing to do with SMC being the ruling party for the last 40 months. And this, today we are listening to how one investigative commission was good and another was bad, seeing how little time the SMC party in Parliament is not aware of some historical facts. Not only do I personally welcome the efforts of the two Presidents of the Commissions of Inquiry, both colleagues of Jelka Godec and also of Mr Hanžk, but also of all the members of the Commissions of Inquiry, because that he already provided us with this report, he tells us that much of the work has been done. Unfortunately, however, instead of dealing with the political responsibility of individual function holders, which should follow criminal responsibility, today we are going to some cock fight in this spirit of pre-election time. And that is why I also understand certain debaters who point to the left and right with their fingers and also point to facts that have had a very important impact when we speak in this report in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and beyond. For example, some of you know the price of this project in 2006 and the price of electricity on European markets in 2006. And what was the price of the project in 2009. We know that, a billion 400. But what was the price of electricity in 2009, and we didn't hear it today. That is why I fully agree with the report and with the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry, which defines 2009 as a key point in the story on TES6. Today, we have heard little about this global crisis, which has taken place either ready or unprepared in 2009. But the fact is, in 2009, electricity prices collapsed and the value of the project almost doubled. This cannot possibly go together with one or five classes of primary school or economic doctors, but of course this is possible in a country called Slovenia. And because of where I come from and also because I was already employed in the SDS Group in 2005, I was interested to see what was going on in those 23 development projects, when we were thinking about how to fertilize our money in the time of the fat cows, and also in 2009, when that government decided not to see anything. I read a letter to myself today from then on, and from then on, to Minister Andrei Viszak, President of the Government, Borut Pahor, on 23 April 2009, when he tried to convince him, in fact, that it was the last moment for us to decide whether TES 6 or TES 6 was necessary or not. And there were certain people who were deaf. And who were the people? These are the people who are first-signed as guilty, Mr Lahovnik, Mr Križanič and Mr Pahor. But first signed under this project TER 6. Who was in the background? Just look who led TEŠ 6 in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, who led the hydroelectric company, HSE, who led, for example, the Communal Velenje, who led the company Premogovnik Velenje and see that they are almost the same names that are still circulating. And while we are talking today about political responsibility and we hope that criminal responsibility will ever occur, these same names occupy important functions. I am easily speaking today about the report of this investigative commission, because I voted against the guarantee law myself, because already in 2012 the indicators that the coal manager has rejected regarding the price of coal were already in progress. There have been urgent meetings of various committees representatives of Pregogovnik Velenje, TŠ 6 and HSE, who said that you Members have no idea, believe us. But the international institutions came with their own data of what price of coal they did not, and the gentlemen who sat in the back there, Mr Meh and Mr Kontič, convinced us all that no one has any idea, just the two of them, because they are from the right place at home, have a concept, and let us all follow them. I also recall the discussions within the SDS Group, when certain Members there close to Velenje claimed that this was the best project we would ever see and were Members within the SDS Group of this project, and that was why such a vote at the time of the SDS Group, when some of us said that it was a completely flawed project, was indeed a very important question in 2011 and 2012 whether it was still meaningful to stop this project. And here, in particular, I agree with this summary of the essential findings, which are there from page 450 to page 460 of this report, from corruption, crime, deception, local communities, parliamentarians, misleading professional institutions, but, let's see what these key actors are doing at that time. This week's Prime Minister of the Government has won a prize, a caricature, the position of President of the Republic, twice. The minister, then, for the finance, is already forecasting himself as the future minister of the same then government and hopes for future government parties. We have also heard quite a few interesting words about the Minister of Economics about what he is doing and what he is teaching Slovenian students, what is worth and what is not worth in the field of economics. In short, we are talking about political responsibility today, and these people are glowing in a series of headlights or in a soybeans. And we're all waiting for criminal responsibility. You can imagine that in 2009 and 2011, Janez Janša was Prime Minister, who would have accepted this and would have been President of the Republic today, and that an amendment such as the SMC, which is very good and I will support him, would have said, Janez Janša, as then President of the Government, is your responsibility. I believe there would be 30 cameras in front of the corner that would say, Janez Janša, you have to step down by 7:00 today. But I spend the whole day watching social networks, Borut Pahor, in Slovenian custom, does not take responsibility because he does not feel guilty about a 1.5 billion worth project. And we're not even in Slovenia anymore, we're what I sometimes write on social networks, we're Butales, we're a typical example of what can't happen, and we repeat the same stories. And unfortunately, I'm very afraid that somewhere in 2019, 2020, there will be an investigative commission that will say what we're all saying, and we're just saying that TES 6 is a new story, changed into another track. Very similar letters, very similar numbers, but not, we are just going, and those who today say what was wrong in 2006 and 2010 when an economic company, through certain political function holders, put this project at the forefront, no, today the President of the Government and ministers are taking on a very similar project, except that the country is not in the first place today when it solves the problem, but it creates it. It is obvious that neither we parliamentarians nor the executive branch of power can remember anything in return, but when we do not remember the new knowledge that is known everywhere in the world, forward, as we want to say, we, as someone said, are above God, above the blue sky, above the blue sky, because obviously we all invoke that criminal responsibility for certain people is completely meaningless, that we can do this. In short, support for the report and support for the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u101	Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor. Prepare Mr. Franz Breznik and Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Yes, today's final report is quite extensive. Of course, it is seen as one of the most exciting yet sad criminals. The report mainly points to 2 governments, the SDS government, and most importantly to the government's guilt led by social democracy. Now, if I get a little bit attached to my previous co-conspirator. It is true that the report mainly points to 2009 when the last time this project could have been without prejudice, if we say that 25 million compared to the billion 400 and the additional millions that follow is no harm. But also SDS is not without butter on the head of this story. By the time the SDS government ended its mandate, the 600 million-euro project had risen to almost a billion euros. And then no alarms rang, even though it was too much for alarms to ring at such a rise, but they didn't, nothing happened. The second thing that happened in this project is that, I think, Minister Vizjak, yes, made sure that TES was not a public procurement contractor. Therefore, these public contracts do sometimes extend any procedure, but they are an additional guarantee of greater transparency, which has not been evident in this project. This project is, if we read this report, a school case of misleading, wrong information, unverified information, decision-making based on information that is not verified. And now that it's pulling parallels with the second track, this project, when you confirmed it or went into it, went into it, didn't have a closed financial structure. It still does not, in fact, exist today and does not know what the President of the Commission said how much it would cost or how much it would cost. So I wouldn't drag these parallels here. This is precisely why the second track project started in a different way, on a more transparent legislative basis. Of course, then we come to this year 2009 where this report begins to read even more dramatically. And here's the problem when you see that there were warnings coming from all sides, including ministers in the government, that there was no action, even though the information was. And in this case, certain people have to bear political responsibility. Here are some names in this report, and if not another, this report now finally shows, at least for this case, with a name and surname, who are these uncles from the background that have always been mentioned in their minds or with one fear, did not know exactly who it was. In this report we have many names and surnames that we can call uncles from the background as well as from the front. Some of these uncles I expect to run for state elections in a short time, in national elections, then probably in locals. In short, I recommend reading this report. Now the name, which very often occurs or very, very often over many years, is Dr. Križanič. In fact, in one or another way or another, he cooperated practically from the beginning, meaning that he had to have all the information, including those who went contrary or who did not need the usefulness of the project, and did not scrutinise, did not ensure that at least the input information or information on the basis of which such a project was economically justified. Then we have two Members, Mr Meh and Mr Kontic, who knew, say. Since 2007, we have a letter pointing out that this price for wholesale coal is not real, and then, besides that, they have never warned again, never again. What they were doing was, as we can read in the report, putting pressure on the Government on the National Assembly through the law, through parliamentary questions. So, someone who knows that one of the main data on which the investment was made is based is that the price of coal is wrong, and then exerts pressure that this project is still being implemented is problematic. Then, of course, we also have here Dr. Lakhovnik, who was also repeatedly warned, but passionate advocate of this project, despite having information about the data on which this project was approved, wrong. Most of all, you can't avoid it, but you can love it as much as you do, but you can like it, and you like it, and so on and so forth, the then President of the HSE Assembly and the President of the Government. And you can't be trusted as president, I'm not going to go into this business, which has risen from 600 million to a billion and a half, while ministers in their own government warn you when red lights burn and you don't act. Besides, now that so many years have passed, there are so many things that are clear that they went wrong, that it was wrong to decide that you still say, most of the time I would have done the same thing. In this case, I don't think there's any other way to confirm these conclusions and, of course, our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u103	Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u104	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, I only have two minutes and 40 seconds to tell you some naked facts. I was sitting here on my own in a previous reference. On the other hand, he was a colleague of Meh, and threats also flew to sue me personally. I warned you about the mistakes. Very simply, the first government of Janez Janša, as my colleague Lisec said, had done some 23 national projects; the price of electricity was different at the time. As we supported or my colleagues back then supported the construction of TES 6 because they understood that it was a 600 million-dollar project. This is how we supported the second track; only the second track is still being built. Implementation is what we don't support. I hope, fellows, we've learned something from this. And the second track I say with certainty, and they can take me for granted to say that it will be the same story, because also in this story was Willi Kovacic, who warned a whole range of people that the matter would go across borders and that the matter would go across borders. I was also personally against the guarantee marriage, and I said why, I was one of those rare ones. And I said, it's not a bad project, because it has to be realized that during this crisis, economics, the electricity consumption was also lower in Slovenia and is now increasing. And if there is an electrical mobility expansion in this complete area, the electricity price will be at least 30% higher in the 5 year period, according to my guarantees. So TES6 will also be profitable. The problem of TES6, which will remain, is two problems. The first problem is this report. Sure. Thanks, buddy. My colleague Hanžek, I don't agree with you at all, I confirm your report. Thank you for the effort you've made. It wasn't easy, I believe. But this is the second problem of TŠ6, which is what I know as an engineer, the problem of T24 steel, how much of this steel is built. The crucifixes that are coming have now ensured that cracks are only due to poor digestion. If the mistakes that have taken place in Germany at the Duisburg thermal power plants, where they had to replace at least some of the equipment in Duisburg, then we will have another problem and new millions. That is why I am also warning those who are watching this project to renew guarantees at the time of the guarantee or at least to the extent that these errors have occurred. Unfortunately, I have to go. Colleagues and colleagues, look, I hope that politics has learned something. I hope that the law enforcement authorities will process it is also necessary to be aware of the price of coal that the Director of Coal also lied for the price of coal and that they later began to dig for more coal and that there were also larger deaths in the coal mine. [[Incomprehensible]] That's what we forgot to say today. There's something else I can count. Unfortunately, my time is running out. So, I confirm, and I will vote in favour of this report by my colleague Hanzko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u105	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare himself for the Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Sometimes someone tells me how you can handle it. But it's hard. Sometimes your stomach is turning, but still, Matjaž Hanžku congratulations, he did a good report, and for the first time, the Social Democrats we signed on to this, the Social Democrats, when Matjaž stepped out of the Left, said to continue the work and the Social Democrats we also supported the conclusions. What SMC is doing now, of course, has been agreed on their executive committee: SD has grown with Pahor, SD should fall with Pahor. I have to tell you that's not gonna happen. The key problem with all the investigative commissions is that we are messing with political responsibilities here. However, people who have seized property from this project are walking through Slovenia. And this government is responsible, you have a SMC Justice Department, you have a SMC Home Affairs Resource. What did you do? You didn't do anything. And everyone's still walking through Slovenia, including the ones who picked up the money. Now, I am very sad when my colleagues, some in this Chamber, teach me how to behave in politics and take political responsibility. The same people who cheated on their constituents and voters four times and always went to a new client. The same man is teaching me today, how to take political responsibility. Well, that's absurd! I've been a social democrat my whole life. Igor doesn't have a problem, for a while in real, then a little bit in LMŠ, or what, no, LMŠ will be another half, SMC, I mean, that's crazy! We, the Social Democrats, take responsibility. I think that this project has been extremely poorly run, extremely poorly run, and that is why it is such a problem, but today I understand why this story is. And one more thing. I absolutely hope to say that if they had stopped the story at that time because they had started to warn, today they would have the same commission of inquiry. You know why? Because you would import electricity and say why you stopped the project then, if you did, would be self-sufficient and would have this good mix and so on. I understand the political situation, but ladies and gentlemen of the SMC, you say today, the law of guarantee. For now, thank God, the country hasn't had to put it in yet. You filed 11, 12, 13 laws today, six-year-olds, 400 million. Who will take this responsibility? Today you have filed 14, 13 laws, with financial obligations of 400 million [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Marian, don't be nervous, hello! [[…]] Don't be nervous! [[advertising from the hall]] I'm not nervous. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u107	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u108	I'm just saying, you made laws today, 400 million worth, Marian, your regret didn't go through, but okay. [[…]] And maybe you'll remember that word in maybe three, four years when you watch TV. Even when there's an investigative commission for the second track, maybe even Magna and something else. Only then will your stomach hurt. Not because you're afraid that either one of you has taken something because you're all honest. Because you will be wronged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u109	Replica, Mr. Igor Zorčič. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u110	Look, I'd like to explain something, buddy Matjaž. We didn't get any instructions. I think the report clearly shows where to find the culprits. Now, if the purpose of the investigative commissions is to find someone responsible for a particular matter, politically responsible, then I think I need to talk about it. [[Incomprehensible]] Now, pointing to someone else, I don't know, to Janie, to anyone, but I don't think it's in the meantime, and that's exactly what we've been alerting them to. It's a lack of self-criticism, an indication of others and the like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u111	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u112	Thank you so much for your words, Vice President! A nice greeting from the Member of Parliament and the Members! I would be happy to paralyze a respected colleague who is ahead of me, but I will nevertheless be more specific to this content. I can say that I was not among those, because I am aware of the signatories to these new laws, because I am aware of the consequences, especially in the financial field, and I have been a great advocate of fiscal rules and I am very much committed to this. In opening, I must say that the honourable President of the parliamentary commission of inquiry is indeed grateful to you, because this has been a very difficult work and also to all the members of the investigative commission, because such content certainly goes beyond a lot of knowledge, particularly which interferes with the so-called profession and all that has to do with it. I can also say that I fully agree with this report and also support both the conclusions and the amendments. However, I would like to touch on some of the honourable President of this Commission, I must admit that we can say as Members, if we are responsible, if you are concerned in this same matter as you mentioned in your previous debate that you have declared a crime five years ago and that nothing has happened to this epilogue, and here we really ask ourselves what the law enforcement authorities are doing, especially in the context of why the law enforcement authorities have shown themselves now that you were still right, why there has not been a legal indictment against some of the carriers involved in this process and that this epilogue has not actually reached the judicial branch of power. About the fact that time would certainly still be on. However, I will allow myself a brief personal opinion on these so-called all of your findings. The fact is, in this case, we can say that the TES-6 has happened something that has somehow been hijacked or I have debated several times in the National Assembly, a deep country in this segment of the economy, or we can say energy, because it has happened that part of this project or investment has been transferred in part or in whole by the then ruling policy to a narrow group of people who have played some key roles, of course with the help of politicians, and the fact is that this group was a group of experts. It is true that we are talking today about political responsibility, the bearers of public notices, public powers, but this group can literally be said to be a closed type, which, as experts, conditioned both credit relations and guarantees themselves, and what is certain in this project is worrying is that there was an incredible lack of control over money spending, that I will not speak about control over the contracts themselves, because such contracts, which you have identified, have gone in the direction of protecting a literal contractor, not a contracting entity. Once again, I support this report and also the proposal for a decision and amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u113	We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which a representative of the proposer, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, gets the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u114	Thank you, President-in-Office. There will be no mistake that the people of the Shale Valley will think that we have anything against them. Nor do we have against coal mines, nor against TES, I know, as a child in Slovenj Gradc, what difference have both municipalities and coal mines and thermal power plants made from an extremely dirty environment into a cleaner environment, what standard have they used, how much have the inhabitants sacrificed there after all, and I fear that it will be these people who are particularly the miners who will be the biggest victim of this huge project, for whatever reason, even now, when the price of coal is higher than the chiefs have promised, that the price of coal is too low, especially since the next 40 years will have to dig deeper, longer, more caves will have, and there is little fear of the safety of miners who work in my information in fear because there is not enough money to train. But let's just leave it. Here are some people, some interests, some lobbyist groups kidnapped both the inhabitants of the Shaleska Valley and the coal mine, seduced everyone with some promises about more jobs, about parts of the city, etc., and, of course, attached their pot. [[Incomprehensible]] In doing so, it seems that, above all, the interest of coal importers and electricity exporters, why I think this, will come later. Contracts, it was just said. The disastrous weather was only in English and was signed by people who did not know English, and even if you know the contract, even if you can speak English, they are specific. They said it was normal. There's a mag at the hearing. A robbery which, after all, is also in international banking at least some official, if nothing else said it was not true, but that these contracts are made in English and in the language of an investor's domestic language, and in parallel, that he can. They only had this in English so that more or less no one could read it. However, if I go in line just a little bit, there was not much criticism, thanks for the commendation also on behalf of the members of the commission and all the experts who helped. The main problem occurred in 2003, as the new director of TES, Dr. Rotnik, said at a conference in Logarska Valley, he showed his project, a new 600 megawatt Block, three gas power plants, four renewals, new Fridays and double the strength of the TES capacity. And at the same time, although it is not clear to me what the relationship was between TES and between the director of TES, at the same time TES defended 520 megawatt block and they did so before the investment study for 520 megawatt block, so here I do not know who is who, but because Dr. Rotnik wanted to have 600 megawatt Block in every way, he set up an expert commission which, according to one witness's statement, was set up to indicate professionally that 600 megawatt Block is the only case, it is one of the witnesses who said. I can't confirm it, but all the clues point to it. This expert commission has been very interesting several times, meeting several times, where they changed from meeting to meeting, because at the beginning of the request that as much block as possible be allowed, coal imports should be started as much as possible and electricity exports to Italy should be increased and even proposed in Prekmurje mine, digging coal to make it even bigger Block, but stopped at 650. And they expertly confirmed that the only good 650 megawatt block is. TES, just the representative of TES in this group, just what we are going to indict today, Dermol, warned them that the best option is 520 megawatt block for TES, which satisfies the bat technology and satisfies and is a typical unit, which would also cost about 600 million, as it was originally intended. But then Rotnik said that it was necessary to have a 500 megawatt block, but in the next commission, it's interesting to read these records, this expert committee found out and all its previous conclusions canceled and said, 600 megawatts is the best, because less than 600 megawatts can't be bat technology, although Dermol specifically warned them that TES had already done a study where they prove, and we also know 4, Padna 2, is 475 and so on. They're serial power plants with less than 600 megawatts and it's typical, which is again a fantasy. It's my phonetic power plant now, so you can't control the price, then you can make up your mind. If I took the standard, you know, standard 500, maybe you'd come up with 600 or 700, for, I'd say, different local stuff. So here I have this, personally, this connection is not clear to me between the director of TES and TES, because one of them is Ali, okay. [[…]] In 2005, they received an energy permit for the 500 megawatt block because TES demanded it, and this commission then, of course, confirmed that 600 megawatts is the best and that is the case. Because this committee is just about to be Dr. Max Babuder, Dr. Franz Križanič, Dr Ferdinand Gubina, Dr. Janez Oman, Dr. Matija Tuma, Dr. Peter Novak, Dr. Jože Voršič, Dr. France Žlagtič, mag. Djordje Gobeljan, Irene Stare and Tomaž Babič. [[…]] I can't say it's all their fault, but it is. And if you get so many doctorates, there's a commission coming to you, you know there's almost no man to say it, okay, but they don't know anything, and you're going to start criticizing their professional conclusions. Mainly, well here I have, one of the members of Djordje Žebeljan said at the hearing, experts in the expert group argued that the use of 41% of bat technology on lignite at that time was not possible with facilities that were below 600 megawatts. Patna 2, 475 has 43, 44, 43 and a half percent profit and lower coal than the giant. So it's nothing. [[Incomprehensible]] Basically, there was one of the beginnings, the initial problems. Well, Dr. Novak's expert, I quote the record, wrote some more facts about the construction of the facility as much capacity as possible. He stressed the need to think about using domestic resources, to start digging coal in Prekmurje and to consider importing coal at national level. Problem is, listen to this, there is a CO2 problem, but according to recent research, it's not supposed to be the key to warming up the atmosphere. These are the statements made by energy experts who planned. Basically, they didn't talk for a moment about what if we had a more rational use of energy, what we're talking about now, not even a moment about what if 4 and 5 were restored, there was no serious study, that's later on, the director of the Directorate of Energy mags. Janez Kopach prescribed it to the Prime Minister. First, he wrote several times to his district minister, Lahovnik, that this was a disaster if it was to be built further, but apparently Lahovnik did not hand over to the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister did not want to read it. I don't know, but most importantly, the director wrote to the President of the Government a public letter stating that I found a warning that no study had been done on the reconstruction of blocks 4 and 5, which was originally planned. [[…]] [[…]] Just as we are here, President Pahor's digger has also warned that only 75 million tons of coal are undisputedly available, which should have been sufficient by 2028, so the coal miner was originally planned to be closed after 28 years. The remaining 49 million tonnes are tied to safety pillars, unused pockets, and the like. Excavation of such stocks requires the dispersion of mining activities to multiple levels, which will affect costs. This amount is more likely to be replaced by an introduction of some 4 million imported coal. When we talk about this, Prime Minister Pahor received a warning from the Energy Commissioner, director of the Energy Directorate, that it was a disaster, but it went on. Why, then, do we have some jobs that, I must admit, do very often not do their job. Then they're respected. But when they do their job, okay, let's just leave it. [[…]] After this expert commission confirmed that the 600 megawatt block was re-appliced for a second energy permit. This energy permit is a little delayed. After signatures and after distribution, I saw that Minister Vizjak signed it in one month, but he kept it for another two months, which I think is very normal, because he had to get studies from ELES from the whole series because there are no 600 megawatts not only a little more than 500 megawatts, all the other things, new electricity exports, a new 400 kilovolt cable and so on. As a sociologist, I talk about strange things, but in three years, a person learns a little bit about these things. And when he was getting this, he was already under pressure from Minister Visiak when he was going to get this energy permit, and then for three years he heard that no one would accidentally think that I was some great member of Minister Visiak. I'm nothing, but I'm a good thinker. Then, quite a while later, they attributed it to those two months later, which Visjak held back the already signed energy permit or, I don't know, what it was like. Mainly during the signature and during what TES received were two months, but it is not essential. Why am I bringing this up because it doesn't matter so much? Because all the time later, this National Assembly in 2009 revealed to him that it was his fault that he was late. Okay, if we were just three months late, I'd say it's right. The following year, 2007, they were mainly trying to resolve a financial structure that would never be completed. Pressed the government for “no objecting letter” for credits and so on. 2008 was about the same, promising the price of coal 2025, which I will no longer repeat. 2008 started to show up, to show problems more and more, to end the situation, prices fell and so on. And then in 2009, when, this is my opinion, Prime Minister Pahor may have even wanted to seriously consider this project. Therefore, on 6 January 2009, he set up a Strategic Energy Council to consider the future of energy. At that time, of course, he came into conflict, not of course, but came into conflict with his Minister of Lachovnik, who opposed some members or the strategic world and this strategic council, which had 11 months to reconsider because of the treaty. But here I have to say in the contract, they're always against TES? [[Incomprehensible]] No, no, no. TES could build, only with a new contract, a company in London looked at the contract and advised TES to cancel this contract because it would be a disaster because it was and quickly told them what was wrong with this contract, and offered to make such a proper contract, in which TES would also have a word that would not be just Alstom. [[Incomprehensible]] As a result, he was withdrawn from TES and worked on his own in the same way as he did. So they even had an international warning that it would be a disaster if they signed it. But okay, that's it. At that time, however, the government had time because, of course, after this conflict, Prime Minister Pahor did not call for 13 months or February, and on 15 February 2010, he called because of the conflict, of course, because the members of the Commission said, but now we have nothing to say because you have already agreed. Just a little bit longer. At that time, it was also a very important letter from the Vice-President of the Strategic Council, Dimovski, who warned and demanded, in addition to other members, that the President of the Strategic Council, Borut Pahor, meet this strategic council. And because he did not meet, Dimovski, of course, gave a very harsh public letter, where he said that he did not mean to cooperate in this way that he would come when everything was done. I read only 2 sentences: “I can’t help but feel that your government has decided to convene a meeting of the Strategic Council at a time when decisions have already been made, including the so-called exit strategy. In some economic sectors, however, the effects of spinning and monopolising the influence of individual political stakeholders are already clearly felt.” I won't be any more than that. Maybe I'll mention it again. In 2009, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia held three meetings in the role of the Assembly of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, and never once spoke about it, discussed the TES, but could. However, they discussed how much to increase meetings for the members of the Supervisory Board. This was more important than thinking again about TES. At the same time, in 2009, it is already that in 2009 there are two innovations, and in March and then quickly in October there is a second amendment. And that'll be all for now. And then it was mostly almost over here. 90% of the contracts were made. So here it was signed, worked before the contracts were signed, for loans. Then, of course, the others were being blackmailed, but now, look, we've already made a deal, we've already made 50, 100 million, let me sign, and I guess we're not going to throw that away. That's about it. Then, of course, 2010, 2011 was being saved, which is still to be resolved. 2012 was finally 2012 and the guarantee was confirmed in the National Assembly. Of course, we have spoken this a few times today with fictitious data that no one has checked. Here we are. Only recently did they acquire the NIP 6 when the TER is already full. I'll do it again. I'm afraid the biggest casualties will be the miners. If we said that instead of 600 million, instead of a billion 400, probably a lot more, they would build 520 megawatts, just like TES first started, for the first time, maybe even enough coal, the second time this 520 could go up to 600, maybe 700 million, because it's typical of how many others they could compare. That means 700 million savings. And if you say so, because I am in favour of sometimes taking into account the social situation and so on, and I am also in favour of the mine for so long to be used, but in a rational way, not in this TER 6 way. In this case, it could also be extended, and if there were 700 million more expensive investments, it would probably not be a loss, it could be a little bit higher the price of coal, so that miners, for example, now I'm inventing, would get on mine 5 million a year more, which would put them in security and new excavations, which would be worth 200 million in 40 years, if TEST were to work by accident. 500 million and half billion would still be cheaper. But what I'm doing now is not an economist, not a miner, not everything else, so as a sociologist, I'm putting these numbers together, but I think I didn't miss much, but I certainly missed less than the planners of the sixth block of TES. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u115	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired and because no one has expressed interest in the debate on the additional final report at the closed meeting, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes, so I'm going to invite you to the application. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If he wishes to discuss the representative of the proposalr, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Mr. Ivan Škodnik, you have the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u116	/ off microphone/
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u117	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Well, hello, all of you! I will not start politics or condemn any party, but somehow I was in this construction of TER 6 anyway, or I realized and somehow followed this matter about 10 years ago when I was not in politics at all. But I do know that politics was involved in this construction. I know it like a late one when I saw it. [[…]] However, as I have been following this matter, I assess that the Commission has done well. She just found out certain things, came to certain conclusions. I wouldn't talk about names. Now, whether it's a director now or a professional worker, the President of the Government or whatever, everyone is responsible for their work, and I think we should just then, and I also advocate that we not only talk about political responsibility, but also about material responsibility. I'd only say one case. What happens, say, if someone happens to be in the company's factory, if any of the workers escape one screw? I know they lost their jobs, and they had little kids, families at home, maybe even sick, but there was no mercy for that. So I think, when we speak many times in this Chamber, that they must be the same vats for all, of course, I would finally like them to be, that the rules here would be the same in the country for the leaders, for other people and, of course, for those small people as we say. But I agree with my colleague Han, when he said before, there's money somewhere else. I believe it's probably the law enforcement authorities now, but they'll have to figure out where the money is and where it's probably somewhere else, not the ones that were named here today. [[…]] They were mentioned here at the time, I agree. So, of course, if it doesn't happen that it just goes through like this, it's going to be like, we're talking about banks, we're talking about a bank hole, there's no money, and we're wondering where the money is. Now, of course, there is less money for pensioners, for pensions, and for health care, of course, for young people, however we look at it, but once again, I say that these things need to be done then, but now it is up to those, as I said, law enforcement authorities to determine the responsibility, I believe that probably those who were now leading and responsible, who have been mentioned, are not at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u119	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u120	Thank you, Chairman. Yes, it is not easy to listen to what is written here in this difficult report, today we have also heard some accusation why the SMC did not persecute, because it had all the levers in its hands, the procedures are going on, but the procedures can only take place on the basis of the rules applicable to the acts that were committed at the time, even if we now change them, we cannot prosecute those responsible for those acts that were committed at the time. So I'm asking my colleagues at the time who were in power until 2014, what did you do to prosecute the perpetrators? Did you make any complaints, or did you help collect evidence, or did you set up an investigative commission? You had full powers and the opportunity to do so, so I repeat, after the laws in force at that time, they can be persecuted, according to the laws applicable to those acts that were committed at that time, and they can now be persecuted. And if we look at one very symptomatic thing that confirms what the Commission has found to be one systemic prevention of being held accountable for the actions that have been committed. Look at the criminal code, the criminal code was adopted in 1999 and was in force until 2008, it had no criminal offence, which is now registered in 257a. Article 1 of the Criminal Code, i.e. damage to public funds, this crime was not included in the Criminal Code until 15 May 2011. What did the commission say? What did the investigative commission say? That all the acts were completed in this case between 2009 and 2011, that is to say, this damage to public funds, this crime cannot be applied to this case, why was this not previously written when the KZ-1, which was adopted already in 2008, was adopted? I don't know, but it's a symptom of this whole problem, that maybe someone didn't want to commit a crime, put it in a criminal code, because maybe we could use it for someone, and now we can use it back, even if it was written in 2011, 15 May 2011, the amendment to KZ-1 B, in which we now have damage to public funds, I hope that these crimes will be criminalized, that they may qualify as a jobless job in order to prosecute, that the prosecution will find that there are reasonable suspicions and that they can also be prosecuted after 258. But the fact is, at the time this was happening, why wasn't there? Ask yourself that question of those who were in power at the time and this rejection now, some reversion of responsibility to someone who wasn't there and a search for someone else who was supposed to be guilty, so I really strongly reject. That is why I will also support the conclusions of the Commission and also the amendments that have been tabled and I call on all law enforcement authorities already to try to use the basis that it was and which could be used to obtain epilogues in the criminal proceedings of those who are taking place and those who could possibly begin on the basis of an investigation carried out by this respected Commission of Inquiry in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u121	I conclude the debate and note that the National Assembly took note of the final report on the investment in the TES-6 block. The assembly will take a decision on the essential findings and on the proposal for a decision and on the amendment by Ambassador Maruša Škopac and Ambassador Sasa Tabakovic, who will deliver the proposal in 20, 19 minutes. I hereby adjourn the 2nd item of the agenda and the 58th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 7 p.m. So, I'll see you at 7:00. Thank you so much for once. [[The session was suspended at 6.40 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u122	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions, Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Final Report on Parliamentary Investigations in the field of the Identification of Abuses in the Slovenian Health System in the Field of Sales and Purchase of Vulnerable Restraints. First, we turn to the decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are set out in the final report on pages 311 to 431 in the supplementary final report on pages 53 to 65 and in the second supplementary final report on pages 17 to 26. Before we move to decision-making, I would like to point out that you do not provide information on possible explanations of vote in the supplementary final report and in another supplementary final report containing classified information or other information protected under the law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u123	In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the joint conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry. The Commission of Inquiry has now, as we have already noted, identified through the debate both the political responsibility and the responsibility of all those who were in public functions during the period investigated by the Commission of Inquiry, from 2003 to 2016. The Commission of Inquiry is responsible for irregularities, both to those who have violated public procurement laws, other laws and who have also taken advantage of this, so that they have contributed to the sale in Slovenia of up to five times the cost of vascular support or the price of being five times higher than in the European market, that money has also leaked to others, so the recapitalisation of companies in Italy and most likely also in Slovenia. We gave all those responsible for medical irregularities a name and a last name. Therefore, we are no longer talking about someone being responsible and that, in fact, there is no way for the investigation to be divulged by anyone, so that in the interim reports we have already given some indication of the crimes, the suspicions of the crimes, and in the final report, the Commission of Inquiry also finds responsibility, the political responsibility of all the Ministers of Health so far, because they have not adopted legislation that would contribute to a more transparent and qualitative and efficient health system. At the same time, the Commission of Inquiry notes that the current Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc, should be subjectively responsible because, during her term of office, she did not act, not on the basis of an interim report and did not, in fact, draw any action that would cut this issue apart, including corruption in health. At the same time, the Commission of Inquiry therefore also notes the responsibilities of the directors of the public health institutions UKC Ljubljana and Maribor, the purchasers in these hospitals and also the physicians who took part in the calls for proposals, so to speak. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] including professional guidelines. At the same time, the Commission of Inquiry also made several proposals for amendments to the laws, i.e. on the basis of what the witnesses had said, and also submitted that the investigating authorities should investigate the possible criminal charges of bribery by Mr. Miklavčič to Mr. Hari Furlan and that the responsibility of the current or former leader should also be investigated. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] purchases in UKC Maribor. I must say that, therefore, in the SDS Group, the work of the investigative commission has been constantly supported, and today will also be the support of the entire parliamentary group to this, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u124	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. Respectable. We have had high expectations in our parliamentary group since the commission of inquiry, despite various concerns. Until the mid-term report was adopted, the Commission, on the basis of documents and evidence, found the suspicion of infringements of the Public Procurement Act, the suspicion of fragmentation of public contracts with a view to raising the prices of vascular restraints and facilitating the purchase of contracts. She found suspicions of infringement of other legislation, but no criminal charges were filed. The Commission has also found that, for the most part, the authorities of public institutions are responsible for the infringements. This is also confirmed by various other state institutions, such as the KPK, the Court of Auditors and the State, such as the State Audit Commission. Today, when we consider the final report, we are faced with a situation where the report focuses on finding the responsibility of current government representatives who were not in office during the period under consideration by the Commission and had no functions. The price of the resistance has already fallen before the government's performance, but with some measures, the government has, of course, reduced or contributed to the lowering of the prices of vascular resistors, among the most important of all. Finally, this is also one of the measures that reduces corruption risk and, most importantly, the prices of vein support across various public institutions are also equal, which was a major problem. The final report therefore includes subjective conclusions on the responsibilities of individual public function holders and such findings cannot be supported. Of course, this does not mean that we support corruption or by accident. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We're protecting anyone who's connected to this corruption. Of course, we will support the proposed decision and the amendment to this decision in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u126	We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 6. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to the proposal for a decision. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u127	At the time of the work of the commission of inquiry, Mr Janez Zemlarič also testified before the investigative committee, who also acted a little confused, for a moment, he did not hear well and relied more on his own lawyer than he did himself. However, we have therefore given this testimony, Mr Zemlarič had no comments on this record, we have also confirmed it on the investigative committee and have written a final report accordingly. At the time when the final report was already in the stage of adoption, additional material was received by Mr Pezdir, who was supposed to prove that Mr Zemlerič was to give false testimony before the investigative commission. Because of the time constraints and also because I have to say that we have not even embarked so deeply on this matter in investigating the work of the State Security Service at a time when Mr. Zemlarič was also the lead, I have already proposed at the hearing of the investigative commission a supplement to the general findings, namely that the competent authorities should examine whether this material we have obtained is credible or whether it really confirms this false testimony that Mr. Zemlarič should give false testimony. On the Commission of Inquiry, this proposal was rejected; of the five Members we voted in favour of this provision, only two. However, because I believe that we are Members of Parliament, that is, the things that we know or that someone tells us that there is a false witness or any other irregularity must be handed over or put into the investigation to the investigating authorities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, therefore, today we propose an amendment to the decision or, yes, to the decision of the commission of inquiry, where we propose that, according to the material proposed by the witnesses interviewed, it be proposed that the competent authorities investigate the suspicions of a criminal offence under Article 254 of the Penal Code for Mr Janez Zemlarič. I think that the competent authorities are qualified enough or that these things will be much easier than we have examined, and therefore I call on my own, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We will support this proposal. And I believe that all those who have read these things, including the material and look at the testimony, can, of course, support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u128	Explanation of vote [[…]] Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u129	President, I just wanted to warn you, given that you put the matter to the vote earlier and didn't tell me what vote it was about, I was convinced in good faith that it was an amendment vote and I voted the same way I thought, but I made a mistake. That is why I want to say only to the Slovenian public and to everyone in the Chamber that I did not intend to vote against the proposal, but I intended to vote in favour of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-10-SDZ7-Izredna-58.ana.u130	I think I'm loud enough to say enough, and now you've also explained the matter, so fine. So we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service has not warned me that the amendment adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly made the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. [[adverts from benches]] I'm breaking up. I said in the beginning, we are deciding on the proposal for a full decision. First, we voted on the essential findings, then on the amendment and now on the decision as a whole. In the same way, we have a structured vote on the following. So we are voting on the draft decision as a whole. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the final report on the investment in the TES6 block. First, we turn to the decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are recorded in the final report on pages 279 to 447. Before we move on to decision-making, I would like to point out that you do not provide information on possible explanations of vote from the supplementary final report, which is marked by the degree of “business secrecy”, “personal data protection”, and is therefore not available to the public. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present and they all voted in favour. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to the proposal for a decision. We decide on the amendment of Ambassador Marusha Škopac and Ambassador Sasa Tabakovic to the draft decision. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 2. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly have led to an uncoordinated proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, all of whom voted unanimously in favour. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I also conclude the 2nd item of the agenda and the 58th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
