ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Dejan Židan, Robert Polnar from 13:00 p.m., Luka Mesec to 10 a.m., Ferenc Horváth, Ludmila Novak from 16 till 21:00, Jani Prednik from 11 a.m. to 17 p.m., Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, Dr. Franc Trček from 3 p.m. on, Violeta Tomić, Primož Siter from 6 p.m. on, Jani Möderndorfer, Franc Kramar, Dušan Šiško, Jože Lenart from 1 p.m. and I will be away from 20 p.m. on my own. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is another offensive proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on cross-border enforcement of services. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Committee, Vojk Starović, for further explanation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the cross-border implementation of services submitted by the Council of State to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption on a regular basis by the Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was provided with the following material: a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Government, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and an opinion of the company of the Working Group. No amendments were tabled in the course of business. Representatives of the State Council, representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and representatives of the interested public, Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The Committee was also presented with an opinion by the Government, which does not support the bill. The representative of the proposer briefly presented a law intended to shorten the time of submission of the application until the issue of the A1 certificate for companies and entrepreneurs carrying out their work in the territory of other European Union countries. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented the opinion and concerns of the service regarding the proposed law and the Government's representative the reasons why the Government does not support the bill. Among other things, the Government does not agree with the partial regulation of the issue in question and considers that the proposed amendment should be discussed in the context of an integrated reform of the law already announced by the Ministry. In the discussion, the participants stressed the need for control mechanisms for the protection of workers who are assigned to work abroad. The replacement of the obligation to submit a copy of the contract of employment with a worker who is posted abroad only by a statement made by the employer under criminal and material liability would constitute a significant reduction in the protection of the worker and the possibility of abuse. The fact is that reviewing employment contracts is the basis for protecting the rights of posted workers and is not merely a bureaucratic process. The debaters advocated shortening the procedures for the issue of A1 certificates, but not at the expense of reducing control over workers' rights. It was also pointed out that different data systems should be linked within the European Union. It was pointed out that the Government had already announced the whole revision of the law in question and had informed the social partners and invited them to submit their amendments and additions. After the discussion, the Committee agreed that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cross-border Service Implementation Act was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I now give the floor to the proposal for a law, which is to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Dejan Crnek to present his position on the proposal of his mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Allow me, on behalf of my colleague Igor Antauer and the Council of State, to briefly ornate again why in the State Council we wanted to propose amendments to the Cross-border Service Implementation Act. The Slovenian legal persons established in Slovenia and registered in Slovenia for carrying out activities and wishing to carry out activities in another Member State of the European Union are together, harmonised at European Union level and demonstrate that form A1 fulfils all the conditions in accordance with European Union rules. However, the problem is that we have been legally provided that the Health Insurance Office has the possibility to confirm this form for five working days. And these five working days have sometimes been too long for those who have to do something quickly abroad; in particular, they are service activities such as editing, field repairs, transportation and the like. We believe that the optimisation of the current information system could also take this step in order to gather all the necessary information in one place; however, these contracts, which need to be added to the review of the Health Insurance Institute, are still needed. This is being reviewed by the co-workers of the institution, sometimes in a foreign language that they may not even know; and therefore the procedures for this approval are much longer. We understand that there may be a need for any abuse, but also in the Government's opinion it has been said that these abuses have been around 3,000 so far, this is also a number drawn from two different databases. Some numbers are also doubling, and the fact is that these are about 3,000 less than 10% of all contracts being made. We believe that there are other mechanisms for these offenders to be punished if they work in bad workers. We believe that it is with this rapid release of form A1 that we could make a better environment for many workers who are also waiting to be sent abroad. At the same time, I would like to say that we believe that we should slowly write laws for those who are good; not in the sense that we are writing laws, that we are protecting because there are some offenders, and we are not punishing these offenders, but we are turning the whole system upside down so that there are as few violations as possible. The aim of the bill is to fully inform and automate the issue of the A1 certificate via e-VEM and thereby shorten the time and submission of the full application until the issue of the A1 certificate for entities that regularly fulfil all legal obligations, regardless of whether the application has been submitted during or outside the business time of the health insurance institution; the proposal of the law still follows the objective that the worker remain involved in the compulsory insurance of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of work in the territory of another European Union. At the same time, I would ask that the opinion of the Council of State be taken into account and that this law is supported. Once again, we are looking at this law speeding up procedures so that more companies can carry out their orders abroad faster, and more workers could be assigned to work where they could improve their social status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Tiln Bozic, to present his position on the opinion of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u6	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law submitted by the National Council for consideration by the State Council has been carefully examined by the Government since the law in question regulates the content which was the subject of intensive inter-sectoral coordination and social dialogue two years ago. During the latter, a delicate balance was sought between preventing the abuse of the rights of posted workers and ensuring competitive conditions for the business of Slovenian companies abroad. The Government is not in favour of a bill that is before you, as it is also exposed to within the competent committee. Now a few words about concrete solutions. With regard to the suspension of the compulsory application of the service contract: the provisions of the Bond Code do not, as a rule, prescribe the nature of the contract, nor do certain other instruments have the nature of the contract in accordance with the case law, so the Government does not explicitly object to the proposal to replace the obligation to submit a service contract in the procedure for issuing the A1 certificate by stating that such a contract exists. Nevertheless, the Government does not agree with the partial regulation of the issue in question and considers that the proposed amendment should be discussed in the context of a comprehensive reform of the law in question in the coming year. It should also be pointed out that this solution stems from the initiative and wishes of the majority of the then National Assembly to address the many abuses that have been detected in practice. It shall also be noted that the Government opposes the proposal in particular in the work relating to the replacement of the obligation to submit an appropriate contract of employment in the A1 certification procedure by stating that such a contract exists. The protection of the rights of posted workers as a particularly vulnerable category of workers was the primary objective that the drafter now pursued in preparing the law. The relevant employment contract is a fundamental institution to achieve this objective. The importance of continuing to maintain this provision of the law also stems from the fact that the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia confirmed A1 during the first nine months of this year that the second largest number of irregularities was detected in the submitted employment contracts. The Government also opposes the proposal to supplement the law by stating that, under the conditions met, A1 certificate is issued without delay and that, in the case of an incomplete application, the party is invited to supplement it, since the content in question is already regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is applicable mutatis mutandis also in the procedure for the issue of A1 certificates. In view of all the above, the Government proposes not to support the proposal of the law before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you, Secretary of State. We are now continuing with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik has the word on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u8	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues. Good morning! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Cross-border Implementation of Services, which has been tabled by the Council of State in the legislative process. A simpler acquisition and arrangement of A1 certificates is proposed for employers to obtain for workers who are posted abroad. The certificate is uniform for the entire European Union area and also proves that all conditions are met in accordance with European Union rules in the field of coordination of social security systems. In other words, this certificate ensures that the worker is involved in compulsory social insurance at the time of deployment. The employer shall submit the application for the issue of this certificate via the e-VEM portal and, if all legal conditions are met, shall also receive the certificate within 5 working days of the completeness of the application. Of course, this role must also be given in full. The competent public official at the Institute of Health Insurance shall verify compliance with the conditions. The applicant now wishes to be fully automated in this examination procedure, so that the employer, instead of a contract of employment or a posting act for the posted worker, gives only a statement to guarantee the existence of the documents or conditions required by law. While we understand the objective and purpose of the proposal, we cannot agree with such a proposal. It should be taken into account that such a solution has been introduced by law precisely because of numerous infringements in the field of posted workers. The government has pointed out that more than 3,000 irregularities have been identified in this area during the first nine months of this year, which means that at least 3,000 posted workers have had difficulties. That is why it is imperative that the fulfilment of the conditions is not checked by an automated programme, but by a person who will qualitatively assess possible irregularities and thus prevent violations of workers' rights. It is also apparent from the practice of the three ZZS regional units that the A1 certificate was issued within one to two working days, and at the latest within two to three working days, which means that Slovenia has confirmed this issue very up-to-date. I think we are at the summit of the European Union after the date of issue of these certificates. However, if it lasts longer, this is due to the failure of the employer’s role, which I have already talked about. The employer must make a full application and within two, maximum three days, this certificate shall also be returned. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we support proposals that bring about de-barcation, but not a significant reduction in the protection of workers and not at the expense of possible abuses of labour law. Therefore, the proposal for a new Law on cross-border service delivery cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you, too. The following will present Mr Soniboj Knezak's position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Respected and respected! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Cross-border Implementation of Services, of which the State Council is the proposer, essentially solves the issue of A1 certificates to workers and workers who perform their work in neighbouring countries of our Slovenia or in other European Union Member States. The proposer of this Act is of the opinion that the five-day time limit for obtaining the A1 certificate is too long and that it exceeds all the time limits that Slovenian companies have in contracts to initiate the execution of the accepted contract or service. It therefore seeks to ensure that companies that comply with all legal conditions should obtain a certificate immediately. The solutions offered by the applicant should fully inform and automate the issue of the A1 certificate via e-VEM, thereby significantly reducing the time taken for the submission of the complete application and the issue of the A1 certificate, whether or not the application was submitted during the business time of the ZZS. The solutions proposed by the proposer should make their work very easy for small service providers who have to perform their service on the ground. The Government has presented its views and opinions on the proposal for a law on the basis of its position on the home committee and has explained to Members and Members that the status of obtaining the A1 certificate is not the same as the proposed law. In doing so, it should be noted that we have already had a similar proposal or solution, but it has not been possible, since there have been too many violations or abuses at the expense of workers. Following the checks carried out on the issue of the form, the government found that in practice the form was issued within 24 hours or no later than 48 hours, while at the same time the fact that in Slovenia we have even the shortest deadline to obtain the form A1 between the Member States of the European Union. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support proposals to facilitate the work of our companies, but at the same time we must prevent any abuse that would go against workers or on account of their rights. There is no way to overlook the fact that the Working Group also opposes such solutions to the bill. The Group of the Social Democrats will therefore support the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the cross-border implementation of services is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, the position will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In February 2017, the Law on the cross-border provision of services, which began to apply on 1 January 2018, was adopted. The law had to be adopted primarily in order to harmonise the law of the European Union. In addition, in years since the start of the economic crisis in Slovenia, we have witnessed a dramatic increase in the range of cross-border provision of services by Slovenian companies in other Member States of the European Union. Although this was a good indicator of increased economic activity, in the context of the posting by Slovenian companies, there was also a significant increase in the abuse of the referral institute and unfortunately also a violation of the rights of posted workers. Such an economic climate has therefore also required Slovenia to lay down more detailed rules for the implementation of the European Regulation on the Coordination of Social Security Systems, in particular in the work relating to the issue of A1 certificates for posted and self-employed persons. In addition, Slovenia had to implement measures to prevent abuses and violations of the rights of posted workers. As it has proved in practice that part of the posting of workers from Slovenia to other European Union countries is due to the abuse of the Slovenian and European legislation governing this area, in particular in the case of so-called straw companies, we cannot agree to the more relaxed conditions for obtaining the A1 certificate in the Modern Centre. The A1 certificate shows that, in accordance with European rules, the conditions are met for a worker to remain involved in compulsory social security in Slovenia at the time of his assignment to another Member State. The National Council, by amendment to the Law on Cross-border Service Implementation, proposes that the employer submit only a declaration of the contract on the contract concluded when applying for A1 in lieu of a copy of the service contract and a copy of the contract of employment. It also proposes to issue the A1 certificate immediately and not only within five working days. The proposed amendment is justified by the need to remove administrative obstacles encountered by employers in the process of obtaining A1 certificate. Notwithstanding the fact that the shortening of the certification procedure itself would most likely have facilitated the work of many employers, in the Modern Centre Party we believe that this should not happen on any condition at the expense of respect for the rights of workers. To illustrate, 93 000 A1 certificates were issued during the first nine months of this year, with the highest number of irregularities found in service contracts; the second largest number of irregularities found relates to the contracts submitted. By confirming the proposed changes, they would actually allow the number of these violations to increase further. With regard to the five-day period for the issue of a certificate, I should remind you that this is the deadline, which means that the actual employer has already received a certificate; moreover, when the law is adopted by the Health Insurance Office which is responsible for issuing those certificates, it has been clarified that the verification of the conditions for obtaining the A1 certificate requires a certain period of time. Thus, such a period was not set just over the thumb. One of the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union is the free movement of services, but we cannot agree that the free movement of services is possible and implemented at the expense of respect for the rights of workers who perform their work in other Member States of the European Union. In the Modern Centre Party, we advocate and advocate consistent respect for labour law. We are of the opinion that the solutions proposed would jeopardise respect for workers' rights; and this is a key reason why we do not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u14	Madam President. A nice greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament and a nice greeting to all in front of small screens, as well as in front of the cameras. Today we are considering the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on cross-border service delivery. Because it's pretty simple, I'll be brief. What do the proponents say? To automate the issue of A1 certificates; to inform and speed up procedures. What do we say? To create new conditions of exploitation, to distort labour law, to reduce labour rights. Why? Because we live in a Europe of capital and non-human beings, because competition comes first, then man comes. Promoting and subsidising competition also makes it easier for workers to break up and divide. How? The posted workers represent competition for workers in the countries to which they are posted. At home, self-employed workers represent competition for those who are in regular working relationships; legislation tries to regulate this, to establish a level playing field and capital is looking for circuits. And what does that look like in practice? Most posted workers come from countries that have entered the European Union since 2004. The largest number of recipient countries is the old members of the European Union. When we talk about countries that travel workers abroad, Slovenia is among the recorders. We are in third place, immediately for Poland and Germany. In the case of posted workers, construction workers dominate. The European Commission's report on posted workers says that five out of ten workers working in construction in Slovenia are posted workers. For the show, in March 2018, we employed 56,000 people in construction, more than 3 000 of them on minimum wage. Why is all this important? Because some of us want to convince us that today we are discussing technology, information technology, progress; that is not true. We are discussing a class fight within the European Union. What are the general findings regarding posted workers? Those published by the official reports. Let's see. Firstly, the salaries paid by posted workers are generally lower than the salaries of workers living in the country of destination. Overpayments are often not paid and the cost of the labour force is reduced and the bargaining power of the working class in the country of destination is reduced. At the same time, better profits also mean sharpening the relationship between posted workers and those who remain at home. Second of all, working hours are usually long. Workers land on a 40-hour worker and are paid that much, but in reality they work 60 hours a week or more without the right to rest and lunch. Third, safety standards at work. As a result, workers are more tired for long hours, which poses a risk to safety and do not usually have training. There are also no translations of health and safety instructions and standards, often without protective equipment and working under poor working conditions. Fourth time, lodging. Workers are often accommodated in cheap dwellings for which they are denied a part of their salary. They are often separated from the local population and even their colleagues. These are not fictitious or individual cases, this is a constant practice at the expense of which surpluses and profits are created. Infringements were detected by the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. During the first nine months of this year, the second largest number of infringements was found in the first nine months of this year, namely more than 3 000. Today you want to eliminate these contracts according to logic No Brain – no headache. We are therefore talking about non-compliance with Slovenian labour legislation, non-payment for work in accordance with the legislation of the country in which workers are posted and so on. How many actual violations are there, we can only guess. In Levi, of course, we oppose these practices and call on all workers to solidarity, despite the fact that capital puts them back in competition. The distortion of the Labour Relations and Precarisation Act, which is taking place with forced espas within Slovenia, is now being accelerated. We have the law, we have the definition of a working relationship, we have the rights that come out of it. The capitalist is not interested in this; it is time for workers to become aware of this, as this is the first step toward moving together and turning things around for the better. Europe today is a Europe of capital. Europe must be Europe for tomorrow, where workers will have equal rights and comparable wages. For Europe people – not capital! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u16	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the cross-border provision of services proposed by the Council of State in its three articles contains a measure that Slovenian entrepreneurs urgently need. A Slovenian company wishing to provide services in another Member State of the European Union must obtain an A1 certificate for each worker it intends to send, showing that a worker abroad has also been included in the compulsory insurance of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of work in the territory of another country. Currently, a copy of the employment contract is required as a mandatory annex to the application for A1 form. The proposal brings its replacement by stating that such a contract already exists. The declaration shall be made under criminal and material or civil liability. The fulfilment of the conditions for the issue of the A1 certificate may, as a consequence, be verified through the information system, thereby speeding up the issue of the certificate. Christian Democrats trust in man, his abilities and judgment. We therefore advocate a limited intervention of regulation and public administration activities in the autonomous sphere of individuals. We are committed to eliminating regulatory constraints everywhere where individuals can voluntarily agree on each other and to eliminating the exercise of ineffective controls, which result only in an increase in operating costs. Large-scale regulation is often only the result of influential interests that can ensure a privileged economic situation through it, which destroys competition, creativity, entrepreneurship and development. Since the law removes bureaucratic obstacles and allows the process of issuing form A1 to be automated, we will support it in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Council of State, Secretary of State! The aim of the State Council, which is proposing this law, is to take a step closer to economic operators in order to reduce bureaucratic barriers that make it difficult for businesses to respond quickly at today's business pace. In the Desus Group, we understand the proposaler's tendency. In general, there are probably too many unnecessary administrative requirements in our country that are not encouraging to our entrepreneurs or to foreign investors, but certain standards, but must also be respected in entrepreneurship, in the light of the protection of workers' rights. The aim of the bill, which is before us today, is to shorten the deadline for obtaining the necessary certificate, by which the posted worker will prove to be involved in compulsory insurance in the Republic of Slovenia at the time of work in another country's territory. It is the so-called A1 form for which the existence of certain civil relations must be demonstrated. It is a contract for the provision of services between the contracting authority and the contractor of works, such as a contract, and a contract between the contractor and the worker who will carry out the work. According to the proposal of the law, this procedure would automatically proceed without checking the content of the said contracts. In our Group of Members, we have assessed that this would reduce the legal, economic and social security of employees. If I am going to the extreme, then the worker could do the job in black because only a statement of the existence and legitimacy of the relationship between the worker and the employer and also the contracting authority, according to our assessment, does not contain a serious, sufficient reason to believe that this is true. I do not say that mass abuse is taking place, but according to the information we have heard in the debate at the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, there have been many irregularities in this year's first nine months in the verification of these two documents. This preliminary sieve is such an important indicator that contracts must be subject to substantive review prior to the issuance of the form; it has also been confirmed by the Legal Service of the National Assembly. With regard to the question of the duration of the certification procedure, for which the time limit for issue is set at the latest within five days, it is essential that such certificates are issued earlier than within the time limit. The fact is that Slovenia is at the very top of the European Union by the efficiency or speed of the issue. For rapid response, such as rapid service services, there is already an existing possibility of issuing such a form for one year. It's over. A more comprehensive reform of the law in question is foreseen. The social partners have already been invited to participate, and in this social dialogue we expect concrete solutions in order to balance the demands of the entrepreneurship council with respect for workers' rights. In the Desus Group, we agree with the proposal of the parent working body, which concluded that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the cross-border implementation of services is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much. As the last position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u20	Hello! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose the decision voted on by the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Cross-border Service Implementation is not suitable for further consideration, secondly, the EPA 203-VIII. In the debate on the Committee, it was pointed out by employers that the acquisition of A1 was a highly bureaucratic process in the issue of the certificate and that this procedure should be carried out more easily and more quickly. The draft law provides for a copy of the contract of employment concluded with a worker who intends to send it in accordance with the provisions of the law governing working relationships relating to the performance of works abroad and a copy of the contract of service or posting act shall be replaced by a declaration issued under criminal and material liability that these contracts exist and are in force. This will make all the information required by the ZZS to issue the A1 certificate electronically. The electronic linkage of databases maintained by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services and the ZZS will enable the electronic verification of the data and thereby the automated issue of A1 certificates to investors that meet all the conditions. By obtaining A1 directly through the e-VEM portal immediately and in a way that the applicant will be able to obtain it himself as soon as he has submitted an application for that certificate, all, especially small service undertakings, will be able to facilitate the performance of the work in the Member States of the European Union. It will also shorten the time from the application to the issue of the certificate, as it will not be affected by the business time of the CFSP. We also agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the control mechanisms for the protection of workers who are posted to work abroad must exist, and this does not mean that employers who in certain situations have to be burdened immediately in order to carry out their work in the European Union without delay. State bureaucracy should be designed to burden export service providers; it should not shift the burden of control mechanisms for workers to employers to ease their work. Such bureaucracy is unnecessary, harmful and unnecessarily reduces the response and procurement and the competitiveness of Slovenian companies abroad. If the will of the coalition were to help and not just promise, today this decision of the committee would be rejected and we would provide the law with a further parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday 19 December in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on intervention when compared to a communal waste packaging and with a derelict tombstone. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Juret Lebne. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a draft law on intervention measures in the handling of municipal packaging and waste grave candles. I think that I can speak on behalf of all government colleagues and colleagues when I say that it is by no means our desire to put the laws of an intervention nature into the National Assembly after an emergency procedure; but I can honestly tell you that we had no other choice. The system didn't fail today or yesterday, but years ago. In Slovenia, uncontrolled piles of waste packaging and waste grave candles have accumulated. Public service operators can no longer provide fire safety and maintain minimum hygiene standards. As environmental minister, I do not even hope to say out loud what damage is done daily in the environment and our green Slovenia, when the rain is pouring these wastes into our country and our pure drinking water. For all of this, we relied on article 11 of the Environmental Protection Act. We are forced as a country to intervene and here, on behalf of the environment and our unspoiled Slovenia, I ask you for your voice of support. The law was unanimously supported by the committee in this house, and I really hope that Members will also today recognize the seriousness of the situation and support the law so that the state can intervene in order to ensure that this accumulated waste packaging is part of the reality of each and every one of us. As Minister, however, I will continue to work as a priority to take responsibility for such irresponsible work of actors in the system, which have long created these unsustainable conditions in the field, and to put in place a new system that will prevent them from doing so in the future. The proposed law therefore provides that the Republic of Slovenia has the right to recover costs due to the implementation of the intervention measures described by the companies for the management of packaging waste and the holders of joint plans which have not complied with the applicable rules of certain obligations. Two amendments have also been tabled to the bill. The first part of the SDS Group provides that the period of validity shall be reduced to one year, i.e. up to 31 years. 12. 2019. In this part, I understand and support this proposal. This means a clear commitment that the priority in the first half of 2019 is to open a dialogue with all stakeholders in the field of waste management and put the system on a new footing. In the rest of the work, however, it is not possible to agree with the amendment, as it represents a shift from public procurement as foreseen by the Public Procurement Act. New expiry date, i.e. 31. 12. 2019 is also taken into account in the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. This means that after that date the law will be extinguished because it is an intervention measure. But at this time, we need to put the system back on track. However, it leaves only those provisions which relate directly to the possibility of recovery of claims or reimbursement of costs. Let me finish. I never imagined being Minister of Environment and Space when I was 37 years old. Even less, I imagined that my first law, which I would present before you and ask for your support, would be an emergency law; but I was placed in front of a wall. Today I propose the adoption of a law that will clean up Slovenian villages and cities of garbage. This isn't the end of the story. We're going to have to re-write a new waste management system together. I imagined three steps: a regulation already adopted, an intervention law, I hope it will be adopted today, and a systemic solution – the Law on Environmental Protection. When all three steps are taken, we will have a regulated waste management system in Slovenia. That's my goal. I hope we can work together to get to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Edward Paulic, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u24	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 3rd emergency meeting. 12. 2018 as a parent labour body, the draft law on intervention measures in the management of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration under urgent procedure. On behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Environment and Space, Jure Leben, stressed that the purpose of the proposal for a law was to provide a legal basis for State intervention, since municipal waste packaging and waste disposal candles were not taken over in a prescribed manner and therefore no appropriate handling of these wastes was ensured. He further presented, as is the case today, the main objectives and solutions of the bill, as well as the reasons that led to its preparation and the introduction into the legislative process. In particular, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made comments to those articles of the bill, which they considered to exceed the rules of intervention or were not fully in conformity with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It added that the amendments of the proposer, although nomotechnically improving the text of the bill, did not remove the essential comments raised. The representative of the Council of State supported the Ministry's action in a complementary explanation, as this is the only possible solution at a given time. Representatives of the Community of municipalities of Slovenia, the Chamber of Municipal Economy and the SLOCERO Economic Interest Association also expressed support for the proposal. In the debate, MEPs expressed a unanimous view that the situation in the area of waste collection and treatment was alarming and welcomed the Ministry's action. At the same time, it was pointed out that the adoption of the intervention law was only a temporary solution, which should be systematically completed at the optimal time, and therefore the Minister's support was announced to address the issue in a systematic manner. Regarding the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service on the non-compliance of certain articles with the Constitution, it was expressed by the coalition Members that in this case it was a matter of weighing between a number of types of constitutional rights, giving priority to the right to a healthy living environment. In their view, the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups in an important part of the notified nomotechnical non-compliance are being abolished. In the SDS Group, they took the view that they would not object to the proposal because they are aware that the situation on the ground requires intervention. In their view, the proposed deadline for the application of the law is 30. 6. 2020 is not ambitious enough and a comprehensive solution should be prepared and adopted earlier. The Levica Group highlighted the view that a suitable solution to the problem of setting up a public undertaking to deal with waste packaging would not be the aim of making a profit. They also highlighted the problem of the level of the price for collection and treatment of waste. The Minister for Environment and Space has provided additional explanations. On the date of application of the law, he explained that it was realistic in his view, as the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act would cover changes in as many as nine different areas. However, if only a segment of waste municipal packaging and headlights were systematically regulated, the deadline for drafting the amendment of the law could be reduced accordingly. He also stressed the importance of a systemic solution to the problem, but the current situation dictates an intervention solution. With regard to the price of taking over and processing of waste, he explained that in the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, the price share would be better regulated. After discussion, the Committee adopted eight amendments to the coalition groups and voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Jani Prednik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u26	Dear Vice President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Communal waste packaging and waste grave candles and the failure of the waste collection and treatment system have led us to adopt the law today. The quantities of municipal waste packaging and the quantities of waste grave candles far exceed the storage and treatment capacity of these wastes. uncontrolled accumulation poses a risk to human health and the pollution of our environment. Social Democrats are estimated to have found an appropriate solution at the Ministry of Environment and Space, which will now be rectified as quickly as possible and taking into account all circumstances in an optimal manner. The proposed law provides a legal basis for State intervention, since waste packaging has not been taken over and processed in the manner and to the extent prescribed. Taking over and processing the excess amount of waste municipal packaging and waste candles will relieve the burden of waste processors, which we hope will remedy the situation. In the Social Democrats' Group, we will support the intervention law, because we must not afford to continue the situation if, as a result of the mass accumulation of waste packaging in more or less suitable places within municipal companies, we endanger human and animal health and risk serious pollution of the environment, drinking water and so on. Such a situation is unacceptable and urgent and effective remedial measures are therefore necessary. However, it is no less important that in due course a new system of collection, reception, processing and waste disposal will be put in place that will prevent us from ever coming to the situation we have recently faced. In this respect, it is important to note that there is still important work to be done in this area in the future. The planet and biodiversity we still have are one and must be treated with responsibility and care, so in the Group of Social Democrats we are convinced that solutions and incoming laws must be well thought out, environmentally oriented, and, above all, they must strive to preserve our health and the environment in which we live. As I have already mentioned, the draft law on intervention measures in the handling of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles in the Social Democrats Group will be unanimously supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mr Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Slovenia is considered a green and clean country, and unfortunately our country is also drowning in waste. The amount of waste stored by municipal companies has already exceeded its capacity. It is also clear at this point that the system has failed – not today, not yesterday, but before the time. And this problem of waste accumulation has been bearded for quite some time. Unfortunately, it is only today that we have come to this point when we are talking about a very concrete solution, because Slovenia was on the threshold of an ecological disaster and we have caught the last train at this point. The accumulated packaging not only poses a serious environmental risk but is also problematic in terms of health and safety. The original sin that results in the purchases of packaging in municipal companies is that companies for the management of waste packaging from municipal companies only take over the amount of waste packaging for which they receive paid packages from the debtors. However, the debtors are obliged to pay the package only if they place more than 15 tonnes of packaging on the market. While each year the government determines the share of taking over the waste packaging, there is a gap at the point where we are talking about how many companies have received paid packages for handling the waste packaging. That is why we are pleased with Minister Lebn's announcement in the SMC that a change will enter into force in the middle of next year, after which all the packaging will be included in the system. This means that the packaging will be paid by all the debtors, not only those who place more than 15 tonnes of packaging on the market. We welcome the change announced in the SMC. It is now clear that the situation can only be resolved through a fundamental systemic change of legislation. In doing so, we would like to stress that the economic benefits must by no means prevail over the protection of the environment and the constitutional right of citizens to a healthy living environment. In this regard, I should also refer to amendments to the Packaging Regulation, which made it possible for municipal companies to temporarily recover the situation pending the adoption of the intervention law. There have been reports in the media that the price of 120 euros per tonne has been set too low and that the purchase of packaging is even higher. Only the information that the Ministry of Municipal Enterprises has concluded 28 contracts at that time proves that the price is not too low and that the solution provided for in the intervention, law is appropriate. It is obvious, however, that some have seen this as an opportunity to increase the price in an exceptional situation when Slovenia drowns in waste. At the time of the consideration of the draft law on the home committee, where the proposal was unanimously supported by the law, the opposition parliamentary groups raised concerns about the cessation of the application of the intervention law. In their view, the application of the intervention law should cease earlier. At the same time, the Minister explained that they are already preparing a systemic solution under the umbrella Environmental Protection Act, but this is not the only issue the government wants to address in the context of the announced changes. In addition to waste, there is an urgent need to regulate the system law in other areas, which requires time. The activities of Minister Lebn so far prove that things can be arranged if there is a will to do so. On the basis of this, we believe in the SMC and we are also convinced that systemic solutions, which otherwise require a great deal of coordination with stakeholders, will certainly come in time. We must act urgently and because we are aware of the responsibilities we have to the environment in the Modern Centre Party, the proposal for a law enjoys our 100 per cent support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following will present Mrs Nataša Sukič's position on behalf of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u30	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! As a result of the mismanagement of waste packaging, which is such an important issue as waste treatment and processing, carried into the hands of private companies, by the end of September, more than 90 000 tonnes of waste packaging and grave candles were collected in public service centres that collect waste by the end of September. This is because at some point the profit motive of private companies for handling waste packaging was no longer satisfied because there were no additional profits in the removal of packaging. Thus, once again, it has caused a great deal more danger to public health and a clean living environment. We have a series of private companies that take over waste packaging for further processing only and solely for the purpose of making profits. We have piles of waste packaging lying in collection centers. The system is weak and unrestrained. The removal and treatment of waste are services that should be carried out in a non-profit manner by public-owned enterprises under the direct control of the State or municipalities. The law doesn't make any of this happen. All this law establishes is that the state will now, at its own expense, pay for what private companies should have done before. Article 8 of the law, under which the State is to recover the costs of removal from private companies which have started the current garbage crisis, is a farce. Indeed, the amendment tabled by the coalition with which the State's duty to recover the costs of companies is also demonstrated. It remains only a right to demand reimbursement, not more duty, respectable and respected, but only a right. The State will therefore be able to ask private companies to pay for the reconciliation of what they themselves should have; but it is clear that private companies will not do so because it is not profitable because it is not profitable. The law that we are considering is not a permanent solution, although until the adoption of the amendment on the Committee was considered as such. It is said that we would have a flawed system; and if it had failed, the state would have cleaned up for the private. With the amendment adopted by the committee, the validity of the law has been time-consuming, so we will not oppose the adoption of this law in Levica. It is true that this is not a change in the waste management system as it would have wanted in Levica, but the law will allow the removal of packaging from the collection centres of public companies collecting waste packaging to address the risks to public health and the environment posed by this accumulated waste packaging at this time. In conclusion, further issues of waste incineration, which has already occurred on the Committee, should be raised. We are aware that the waste packaging, which will be remedied by the adoption of this law, after months of rotting in these centres, is degraded to the point that there is little chance of recycling and is likely to be incinerated. The fact that the law does not contain sufficient safeguards that this packaging will not be incinerated in some incinerator with low environmental standards is another reason why we will not support this law in Levica. In short, we won't oppose him, but we can't support him. As regards the construction of new incinerators in Slovenia, we report in Levica that we do not support them. It is absurd that in the previous term, the minister of the party who has given up the most on the necessity of establishing a circular economy is now considering the construction of new incinerators. Waste in the circular economy is not fuel, but raw materials. First, we have to reduce the amount of waste and then we have to recycle it. Each incineration plant is as environmentally friendly as possible when it reduces material waste streams significantly. So no wonder the minister says the incinerators will be non-profit. Of course, they will, but not because the profits they create would bring them back to the community and into action to remedy the polluted environment. They will be unprofitable because they will not be able to generate any profits at the time of the radical reduction in the volume of waste. Over the long term, the incineration plant will not solve the environmental problems created by waste packaging, but by feeding an inefficient production system based on the destruction of natural resources with greenhouse gas emissions, environmental problems will only increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u32	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! We are all aware in this Chamber that the waste packaging and waste candles must be stored immediately because the situation in nature is already alarming. We are also aware that at the moment when we are just putting out the fire, the only solution to the State's intervention is; so far we are united. The problem arises when we ask ourselves who is responsible for the situation. Who is responsible that this environmental problem has not been addressed by the State before, since the purchases of packaging have not been made overnight. Of course, the new government and the Minister of Environment and Space cannot fully assume the responsibility for the situation that the Government of Mira Cerar and Minister Majcen should have not acted on. That is why today we are forced to adopt an intervention law and to regulate the area of handling this accumulated packaging in the short term. The law therefore lays down only the urgent action of a country which would not have occurred if the State had implemented the Environmental Protection Act and the European Directive imposing an obligation on contaminants to pay for themselves and take care of waste packaging, alone or through one of the waste management companies which have an environmental permit for this activity. Since the ILO has eased the conditions of the packaging and packaging regulation and has only designated undertakings that place more than 15 tonnes of packaging on the market for the debtors, an uneven market situation has been created. As a result, only 46.8% of the total waste packaging is included in the waste management system. There are no accurate records of how much waste packaging is collected and how much is placed on the market. There's no control either. This is also stated in several judgments by the Administrative Court, which states that waste packaging companies are obliged to ensure that only the quantities of waste packaging placed on the market are treated in respect of those quantities which they have entered into the contract. The intervention law now costs €3.5 million to these companies which are not responsible for the situation. Although the draft law now removes the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to recover this cost from companies, it remains only its right to do so, the country will no doubt do so. We are also concerned about a number of concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service, which have not been removed and leave open doors to possible lawsuits. Therefore, the proposal for this law does not offer any solutions to prevent the production of waste packaging, which would prepare or recycle as many packagings as possible for reuse or recycling. These solutions will, according to the ILO guarantee, bring new novels to the Environmental Protection Act. From experience, it can be assumed that the journey there is still very long. The Law on intervention measures in the management of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles will apply for a maximum period of 30 June 2020. And what will happen after that date if we do not deal with the Environmental Protection Act by then? Are we going to take action again and place the burden on others? In Novi Slovenija, despite many concerns, I will only support the majority law because it is an intervention law and a solution to an acute problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u34	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the proposal for a law on intervention measures in the management of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles. With the proposed solution, the State will primarily ensure the processing of the waste packaging that has accumulated because companies for handling this packaging are not in a position to take over and work in accordance with the rules and some challenge the existence of contractual obligations. This is a serious problem of worrying dimensions, which entails health and environmental risks. Minister Leben has already pointed out at the hearing that addressing the issue of packaging waste will be a priority, and we like that his efforts can already be seen in the environment. We also welcome his awareness that the matter will need to be systematically regulated in the context of the additions to the Environmental Protection Act. We live in environmentally friendly times, which require environmental issues to be addressed systematically, as intervention measures cannot be kept to themselves or relied upon at all times. We must assure those who say that part of the problem related to waste management companies is also hiding in the fact that the activity is not regulated as a public economic service. If we look back in time, we can already see in articles from the beginning of this century media reports and articles that warn and warn that we are at the heart of the waste crisis and that they accumulate too much; that landfills cannot control them and that mankind will drown in them. In fact, we can see that nothing has changed in the last two decades, only worse. The situation has become even more acute, and the situation has become more acute. Our garbage is being squandered, and people's behavior is not changing, and we continue to produce excessive amounts of packaging. When dealing with today's issue, it is also impossible to reflect on the message sent by us as consumers and consumers and on our responsibility to future generations. Something's just gonna have to change. Otherwise, legislation will obviously have to contribute to people's awareness and, together with it, the tax burden on packaging. The fact is, an intervention measure such as today only solves things at some temporary level. If the use of the packaging continues to grow sharply, it will soon not help us even if the companies dealing with waste packaging are above all exemplary and will regularly carry out their obligations. On the one hand, it will be necessary to change people’s minds somehow, and on the other hand, to decide what we can do with these wastes that will not be removed from our lives if we try to limit ourselves. This is where I have been particularly recently mentioned the thermal treatment plant. I'm talking about raw material, not waste. In Alenka Bratušek we are committed to ensuring a higher level of waste recycling, so this is also certainly the course to be considered. Of course, because of the critical situation in the field and the urgency of the imposition of intervention measures, there is no doubt about how we will decide in our parliamentary group. We will unanimously support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you, too. The position of the Desus Group was presented by Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, coworkers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! A famous river says: "To someone's waste, to another treasure." And it is this river that one thinks of when monitoring the situation with municipal waste packaging and with waste grave candles, because money, in fact the desire for more money, has caused these great problems in practice. Some waste management companies and owners of the common waste candle management plan decided that they did not earn enough to dispose of the waste in question, so they decided to blackmail themselves in order to make more money out of the country. Thus, they have been amassed to the extent that they are already endangering human health and safety and the environment. There's nothing left for the state but to decide to intervene. The result of this decision is therefore the intervention law that is before us today. The State itself will take care of the removal of both types of waste and will require reimbursement for the removal and processing of costs from companies that have not done their work as they should. In this, in the Desus Group we support the Minister in his efforts. It is obviously necessary to use coercion, although the State will have to take care of the transport and processing itself. The export and processing price for packaging is up to €120 per tonne and for candles up to €200 per tonne, corresponding to the average price in the already signed contracts between the country and the operators. In the Desus Group we also support the ministers' proposal at this point. As we were informed by the Minister of Labour at the meeting, the Ministry approached to solve the problem of accumulated waste in three steps. The so-called Waste Management Regulation has already been amended, we are now in the process of adopting an intervention law, followed by a re-establishment or re-establishment of the waste management system. We also expect a complete overhaul of the Environmental Protection Act. In the Desus Group, it seems to us that the Minister's forecast is that, as of 1 June 2019, companies will have to start taking over all the packaging on the market; not only those placed on the market by producers that produce more than 15 tonnes per year. As Members of the Desus Group agree that an intervention solution is needed, we will unanimously support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u38	Nice greeting, Vice President; Mr. Minister and everyone else is here! We have before us a proposal for a law on intervention measures in the management of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles. As we know, data from the Slovenian Environmental and Space Inspectorate show that abnormal quantities of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles exceed the capacity of pre-storage, storage or temporary storage. They also pose a risk to humans, animals and environmental pollution. We will also be faced with percentage data on the proportion of unreposited municipal packaging moving from 3.9% to 72% for waste gravestones. The Environmental Protection Act in Article 20, paragraph 7, also regulates the extended liability of the manufacturer. The re-use and recycling of waste products and other treatment processes are also encouraged. The different risks will be increased in the event of further inadequate takeover, as storage capacities of certain public service providers have already been exceeded. The latter may also lead to additional environmental problems. Public service operators will also be forced to store waste outside regulated storage facilities. We also do not have sufficient capacity in the Republic of Slovenia for thermal treatment of waste, so it is necessary to submit an amendment to amend Article 12. It is recalled that the sixth paragraph of Article 4 of the proposal of this Act cannot be operationally implemented in most municipal companies. The purpose of the intervention law is to remove municipal waste packaging which companies do not wish to take from recharged warehouses for the management of waste packaging. Overstocking will also be checked by the Inspector of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space, and it is therefore unrealistic to expect public service operators to have sufficient storage capacity to mark and close existing warehouses in such a way that it would not be possible to withdraw or add them. Let me mention that the director of the Chamber of Municipal Economy is 10. 12. 2018, at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, presented that out of 52 companies surveyed, only 5 companies have the opportunity to provide additional storage and only 6 companies have the possibility of accessing warehouses on two sides. For the same reasons, the majority of utilities will not be able to implement Article 6, paragraph 9, of this Act. In order not to ensure the implementation of these provisions, the law provides for the imposition of high penalties on undertakings and those responsible in those undertakings. These criminal provisions are problematic because it is clear to us that the aforementioned provisions will not be fully implemented by most municipal companies. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, paragraphs 2 and 5 of Article 12 of the Act are proposed to be deleted. In the future, the law should define the principle of handling overcrowded warehouses, which companies must follow in accordance with existing options in nature. In the event that there are no powers to implement these guidelines, financial penalties should follow. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this intervention law to keep our country green and clean as it has been so far. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you, too. The following will present Mr Zvonko Černač's position on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u40	Respectable all present, especially the young visitors on the balcony and the minister responsible for the environment and space! We share the view within the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that waste, in particular waste packaging and candles, needs to be addressed. But this problem is not from today, it's not from yesterday, it's been dragging for years. The customer of the modern center, Mira Cerar, says they are aware of their responsibilities to the environment. Really? But where were you for four years when you ran the government, and some other coalition partners, who are happy to welcome the intervention law that governs what Cerara's government has not regulated in four years. So much for that. The law that we are considering today is therefore an intervention law. The costs will be borne by all taxpayers twice over the higher budget expenditure. For the first time, we pay for the disposal of waste in proportion to how much we create it; and for the second time, when buying products where sellers charge us the cost of handling packaging and candles at the price of the product. However, it would be right for waste management to be regulated in such a way as to fully enforce the principle of the payer. And it's been four years. The intervention law does not regulate the fair payment of the disposal of waste. We will pay the costs twice through budget expenditure, thus through taxes, which is not the most educational, as those who do not create waste will be equally burdened. Regressive claims contained in the law will not be effective. Now companies have in their hands the opinion of our Law-Legal Service, which it attaches to them to deal with waste packaging. In a year's time, we'll ask how many regression claims have been successful; I don't think there'll be any. If the applicant were truly convinced of his own right in this work, then he would write otherwise in the law: sealing the property of companies whose backyards contain excess quantities of waste packaging and candles, and deleting this seal only when the costs are settled. Regardless of everything that we have said on the committee, I can also repeat today: in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we do not oppose this law; our support for the law depends on whether the amendment we tabled will be adopted. This amendment reduces the intervention period by six months, i.e. from 30 June 2020 to 31. 12. 2019; and at the same time, we define as the deadline of 30 days from the moment when the inspection takes place the inventory and recording of the packaging and the candle, in which the ILO, through the chosen person, must ensure that the waste packaging or waste candles are taken away. If it's earlier, it's so much better. There is currently no time limit in the law and companies dealing with it point to the lack of storage capacity. This was also pointed out to the Committee when it was clearly exposed that these capacities were not sufficient. If the packaging, which will be marked, is not allowed to do anything and will wait, as we hear the Minister, for the appropriate contractor to be selected through public procurement, then we are likely to witness the collapse of the system. For this reason, I do not understand the opinion of the Minister, who speaks of the fact that this deadline is too short for it to be able to carry out what the law imposes. Then why are we adopting the law by emergency, excuse me?Oh, my God! When the marriage was introduced, we witnessed all the media reading how rodents are threatened by these wastes. Do you think mice and other rodents will wait 30 days? I don't think they're gonna wait, they're not waiting today. I must say that this argument and our parliamentary group have now put me in real doubt, or are we adopting an emergency law because we want to settle something; are we adopting a law because one of the state budget expenditure wants to set something up for someone? In the debate when I discuss the amendments, I hope that there will be enough time to explain this clearly. We insist that if we regulate this area in an intervention way, then it should be dealt with quickly, in such a way that these wastes are disposed of, processed, destroyed, whatever you want; and in the shortest possible time. Otherwise, we do not need such a law, especially the adoption of an emergency procedure. Our support for this law depends on whether the amendment we have proposed will be adopted and fully adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič will be presented as the last position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Good day to you all, especially a nice greeting to the balcony! The situation is catastrophic and, in my opinion, exceeds today's customer distribution and the ability of public services. The Minister recognized this situation and immediately went to work, so I congratulate him here. Several measures have already been taken in the field of plastic packaging handling. With the new year, plastic bags will be banned from stores. We are now dealing with intervention and waste treatment, and there is also a system regulation to be prepared by the Ministry within a year. In doing so, we must not forget another point that we are also responsible for the amount of waste by ourselves, not only producers, but also public utilities. So already there are quite a few preventive programs and measures, say: Light a candle less, I have my own bag. More municipalities and businesses are already implementing the Zero Waste Strategy or no waste where waste actually becomes a secondary raw material. But today is no matter what, and all of this is an emergency. The aim of the proposal for a law on intervention measures in the handling of municipal packaging and waste grave candles is to provide a legal framework for action by the State in the context of dealing with the consequences of improperly taken and consequently inadequately treated municipal packaging on the environment and human health. On the basis of the inspection carried out by the Environment Inspectorate, it was found that the amount of waste packaging and headlights exceeded the storage capacity of the municipal public service concessionaire for the collection of municipal waste. The packed packaging poses a major health and environmental problem and the government or the Ministry of the Environment have drawn up an intervention law to at least temporarily resolve the issue. The packaging intended for food storage attracts a large number of insects and rodents that threaten the local population by breaking into houses and transferring diseases. Large amounts of waste packaging and grave candles also have a negative impact on the environment, as precipitation into the earth can penetrate the health of harmful substances that contaminate groundwater and also soil. However, it also has a negative impact on the business activity of waste recycling companies as wastes that have long been exposed to weather effects become useless in terms of recycling. Under the law, the State will implement measures in the management of waste packaging in the event that the amount of unprocessed packaging exceeds its storage capacity in local utilities. The measures shall include control of the quantity of packed packaging to be carried out in the form of inspections by inspection services on the basis of which it will be determined whether a municipal undertaking adequately stores or manages waste. If the inspector detects irregularities in the storage or processing of a particular type of waste, he will prohibit the company from storing and ordering the reimbursement of the costs incurred in the implementation of the measures. The law also provides for the implementation of measures where no prescribed treatment is provided for waste packaging and candles. According to the Minister's announcements, which we have also addressed on the Infrastructure Committee, a permanent solution to this issue will be covered in the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, which must be prepared within a year and a half; or, given the amendments tabled, this deadline will probably be reduced to one year. Therefore, the proposal of the intervention law will be duly confirmed in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. The amendments of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 16b are substantively linked and will be discussed together. I am putting to the debate Article 16b and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, Desus and SAB groups and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening an application for discussion. Please sign in. We have four panellists. The first one gets the word Mrs. Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. We are hearing today that these waste packaging problems have been a problem for years and years. If you remember, at the meeting of the committee, the Minister announced action on this issue as a candidate for minister. The way he did it, I think he's the only one. The amendment must, in the first place, relate to clearly determining the liability of each participant individually. Thus, that exemption of up to 15 tonnes of common packaging, as has been the case so far, has obviously proved to be wrong in the past. It is right that each person is responsible for the exact amount of packaging produced by himself. As the minister said at the hearing, everyone should be responsible for every kilo of packaging they produce. If we follow the Minister's work, how pragmatic he is and how effective he is, we have also seen that he has seen the issues on the ground, and I believe that this is the right approach. Now she's going to go to the field, and she's going to look at what these quantities are, where they are, determine how much of what needs to be taken away, and what needs to be done immediately. That's what's gonna happen. I think that this is the only way, if there is a problem in the field, or if there is a problem for longer than there is in this case, and it is clear that things do not work as they should in this case, that this Article 11 should happen when the State assumes subsidiary responsibility and acts without delay. In the environment, this is all the more important when we talk about how we promote ourselves as a green destination, when we talk about protecting the health of our people, in order to act quickly, in order to act effectively. And not only in the case of packaging disposal, but also in other cases. We know these problems in very detail in Celje because for years and years it has not responded to the pollution of the Celje Valley; and in this case, it is all praise to the Minister for how he dealt with the matter. Regardless of how much it will cost to talk about these two million today, it is right to think — and it is right to think — how the country will then recover these funds. It's a good thing we're talking about this. But when we talk and when we put on a scale, whether the country will now give this money, compared to what kind of danger is caused by the actual situation on the ground, not just for the environment, even for animals and people, I think this is the right way. And in such cases, we must absolutely support such action, with the awareness that matters must then be dealt with systematically, to change things that have proved to be wrong, and to identify other types of measures or reactions. However, I wonder as many of you today, as you have already suggested in the views of individual parliamentary groups, that the problem has not arisen overnight, the problem has been lingering for years. And I wonder what has happened in this ministry in the past, what the predecessors of this ministry have done and why it has not reacted before. I doubt we'll find out. It is the right way for Members to support what we see at this point, that it is necessary; but the question hangs in the air somewhere and remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! From the point of view of the citizen, this is the situation. I can say that the vast majority of citizens, at least in the countryside where I come from, are very strict about separating waste, among other things. And we all know, the more we separate the waste, the more we pay. But okay, well, there's a feeling that it's a good thing that it's arranged, that it's organized transportation. I would like to see this once, and I hope that I will experience it, that it would really be like we are now just saying that everyone would pay for the waste, either it's a packaging or it's a waste disposal candle, exactly after the amount of this produced waste. That means if I take the bucket out to the street, that the guy who's driving is gonna weigh the trash, and on that basis, I get an invoice or a ticket. It's probably an ideal, fair, just solution. But the topic of this intervention law is not that. Before we even begin to discuss the intervention law, we should find that someone is responsible, that we even have an intervention law in the National Assembly. Did it just come from the clear sky? Someone didn't do anything. Who? The government, the competent ministry? It is true that the minister has not yet warmed his chair, but this great problem, which we have all been watching in the media during the election campaign, has already hit him on television. He's been out of this for over six months. Six months passed from the identified problem to the law in the National Assembly. We in New Slovenia, in principle, are not prone to emergency procedures, nor to intervention laws, unless it is a natural disaster, when people need to be helped very quickly, but it is also a natural disaster. That is why I have exceptionally supported the urgent procedure at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly this time, because I understand and expect it to be resolved. Those of us who are firefighters know what intervention is – quick, urgent, effective, now, immediately and as soon as possible the matter needs to be resolved. I therefore support these solutions proposed by my colleagues and colleagues from the SDS and the coalition to put this law out 31. 12. 2019. In this context, I support this. I also support the announcement made by Minister Juret Lebn, who says that soon, I expect in the following year, he will come with a new law on environmental protection that will solve matters and put matters in place so that there will be no more need for intervention action, again after some new intervention laws that would solve waste packaging and scrapping candles. At this time, what we are talking about solutions, what we are talking about in intervention law, we are getting different information. We have studied them all thoroughly in the New Slovenia Group. We are here, as colleague Alex Reberšek said, on the side of the government or the minister or the support of the law. We're afraid because some companies are predicting lawsuits. Minister, maybe you'd like to say something about what these odds are or aren't there at all. We wouldn't want to adopt a law that would encourage someone to sue the country or I don't know who. We want the law to be the one that offers effective solutions and, above all, we want this problem to be resolved as soon as possible. We'd like to get to New Year's, but I don't think it's gonna work. I also look forward to the response of colleagues and colleagues, especially from the coalition and beyond, regarding the adoption of these amendments. But I conclude with the same thing that I started my debate – responsibility. Every day we face some of the problems that have arisen because someone in the government has not done them. Of course, we cannot now hang this problem on this government, which sits for only 100 days in its own chairs, but someone simply did not do their job for their own wages. We are not the police, we are not the prosecution, we are not the court, but we are the National Assembly and we are the ones who must oversee the government and claim responsibility. And here we are in New Slovenia extremely disappointed. Many times we come with some legal proposals before this national assembly, and we are simply rejected by the government and the coalition, if this is not systematic, that this is not comprehensive, that the government will solve this in a different way, comprehensively and systematically. She wasn't saving, she wasn't saving. And then we get what we get, the fantastic amounts of waste packaging and the waste grave candles that we have to solve here. Indeed, my appeal to the government, of course also to the Ministry of Environment and Space, because I see that the law will be supported tomorrow, that it will be implemented as soon as possible, effectively implemented and that then, in fact, this law will be put out at the end of the year, as proposed by these amendments. I will support these amendments in this context. And in the NS Group of Members, we will support the majority law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you. The amendment we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party is governed by two. The first is the shortening of the law, after which the amendment is to apply only for 2019. And a similar amendment has also been tabled by the coalition, which means that this will be adopted tomorrow. So it doesn't show us to lose words. The second part of the amendment refers to the hands in which this situation is to be remedied. We're talking about the intervention law, the law that we're adopting by emergency procedure, the problem is hanging over our heads. We have read in the media that the problem is not only environmental but also from a health perspective, because rodents will settle on these wastes, who are obviously waiting for us to adopt this law because they are not settling today. A little humor in the middle of not being too serious. At the same time, we are witnessing that the Minister does not support this 30-day deadline in which these companies or those persons who are about to begin carrying this package should be selected. The problem is a 30-day deadline. Now let's see what the law says. The law says that an environmental inspection must be carried out in ten days, be careful, work days, that's interesting. If this is an intervention law, at least these workers could be released; within ten days. The whole world counts the hands of the days, only we in Slovenia are refugees and we are talking about working days at the time, both here and in the field of various permits. We should slowly get rid of our unique nomenclature and designations. So in ten working days. It sounds good, it'll be real quick, it'll be in the middle of January. Because the law will be passed tomorrow, it will probably be published next week on Friday, will enter into force between the holidays, between January 1st and January 2nd, there is another weekend in between, so somewhere until January 15th, there is an inspection task, that is 10 days, 1 month, today we are 18. And within one month, the inspection will come, mark, describe and immediately notify the Ministry responsible for the environment and space, of the quantities and where they are. Where these quantities are located, the law states, the operator shall not, after having examined the marked waste, take away or add any other waste to them. Other wastes that will come now from the new year are likely to be made by holidays and will still be largely packed, other wastes previously stored or stored so that the marked waste can be taken over. So this is where they'll be marked, they'll be waiting, the contractors on the board have warned that they don't have the capacity. These wastes must not be given to companies, even if they had, they must not be returned, because they are now marked, they are sealed, according to the household statement. They may only be handed over to persons referred to in Article 5, paragraph 3, of this Law, a person who, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and its account, ensures that such waste is taken over and processed. We set a 30-day deadline for this person to be selected. The minister doesn't say it's because of the public contracts. Mr. Secretary, if there's a problem of public procurement, then we don't need the law. Somewhere in the second year, you will select the contractor, following the decisions of the State Audit Commission, which we have been following recently, say the last most insidious – Caravanka, will be decided at the end of the year, will be chosen by a significantly more expensive provider than you could be. That's the way it's gonna be at the end of the decision, and one year they're gonna seal off the waste. Where these companies are going to store the new waste, I'm asking you. Where, if the 30-day deadline is a problem? If this is done in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and in accordance with the established practice of the State Audit Commission, which we are witnessing on Slovenian soils, which is supposed to be an independent body sold as an independent body, which is even worse; there is no complaint about decisions over which there is only blue sky. Apparently, they were appointed by God and were not appointed by this National Assembly. If the District, District, Senior Judges are not the blue sky, but the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court. And here's the blue sky and they're independent, please. Each with such or other customer sympathy, which is absurd, that three members of the Senate from the same customer sympathy appear in the decision-making process, which is also a question for the one who runs this committee. What are the exclusion criteria, how do we protect conflict of interest, how do we ensure that there is no doubt about impartiality? In all these decisions, forgive me, especially given the last decision, this Commission has lost all credibility. If we remove it tomorrow, there'll be no harm, and we'll have a regular court review. None. The greatest damage is now done by their decisions, because we are overpayment of investments, and nothing is better than that. If the Minister waits for this strong procedure to take place, this law will cease to apply. I'm sorry, I don't understand. If the problem is 30 days, say the minister, it's 60 days enough, 90 days; but the people of God, but now these sealed wastes can't wait there in the warehouses. Companies will be forced to take on new ones, which will now be huge. Where are they going with them? And at the same time, we're talking about adopting a law that is of an intervention nature, because mice will multiply there if we don't take it away. It is possible to correct this if we agree to accept this amendment. You can submit an amendment to the amendment and extend this period from 30 to 60 or 90 days, only the deadline must be. It's got to be a deadline! Without that, he has no marriage and will have no effect. In conclusion, it would be good to hear because we have not heard where more than 10,000 tons of this packaging and candles are going to go. What's gonna happen to them? We need to know that today, and it's also right that the public knows where we're going to take them. We'll process them, burn them, load them onto the ship, blow them up in the middle of the ocean? What's gonna happen to them? And why 120 Euros of waste and 200 Euros of candles?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you for saying a nice hello again. However, I will give a little more of the words concerning the amendments that we have received today. And I'll be back a little bit longer. In fact, at the third session of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we have searched very closely this proposal for an intervention law that we are dealing with today; and we have been surprisingly united, I must say. All of us, from the left, from the right, which is in between, above, below, were all of us together, because we are aware of the exact nature of the problem, which we are solving today in the second step, as the Minister has already mentioned today. Perhaps this proposal could be even better, anyone can be even better, but it should be stressed that this is an intervention law where we are solving an intervention situation. Today we can also talk about who is to blame, who is not to blame, who might do something, but all of this will not help to solve the environmental problem that we have in the field. And that is today the goal and objective must also be in the future when we address the Environmental Protection Act. We were united on the committee, there remained somehow another proposal on the table, one initiative by the SDS colleagues on when this law should be applied in an interventional manner. But it's 31. 12. 2019, which is the SDS proposal, or six months later, as proposed by the Ministry. In an explanation to all those who may not have gone into the details of this intervention law, the Ministry proposed 30. 6. 2020 for the same reason; when I mentioned the third step in regulating this area, i.e. the amendment or amendment of the Environmental Protection Act. The Environmental Protection Act is a system law covering 9 different areas. It is a complex law, a law that has changed very much in the past, sometimes too often because it is at some crossroads in terms of legal certainty; and there is much solution in it. And through this longer process, we have come to a point where the law itself has been inconsistent and has also generated a number of problems that we are solving today. But as it is said, we are not here to create problems, but to try to solve those who have accumulated as quickly as possible. The amendments we received by the SDS and then the coalition; in fact, it is nothing more than that the coalition actually summarized the SDS amendment, so it took into account this shortening of time, which is then understood that the Ministry will be forced to open the Environmental Protection Act twice, for the first time, to address the issue of waste. Then it will probably work in other areas, but later we will go to other areas. In this sense, the coalition and the ministry have gone a long way towards the SDS, which I hope will not be forgotten so quickly, because we often hear here how the coalition simply passes by and overruns everything, that we have no sense of sensitivity or sensitivity for nothing. Of course we do, but as we say, it takes a lot of patience, a lot of communication, and I believe that we can all do it together if it's only will, if it's motive. And I'm glad that ecology is one of those areas where individual ideologies are largely decommissioned. As I have already said, we will certainly follow this recommendation from the SDS. I think it's a useful and well-intentioned step, a kind of approximation, because we all have our environmental problems in front of us or in front of our eyes. And this should lead in a number of other areas, but this is sometimes also a matter of some will or political overplay. People sometimes think a lot of things, and they see it very dramatically. We, too, have often helped to make things very dramatic, but this is part of the game. Above all, it is important that we are looking for solutions here, and I think there is an urgent solution on the table today. And I also count on the constructiveness of everyone, even in the future. Even in this house, we hear a lot of words, including about ecology, but words are not enough, very concrete actions are needed. I welcome all these initiatives and all these steps that have been taken in the Ministry of Environment and Space under the leadership of Juret Lebna in this short time since the actual impact on the ground is already visible and known. I'm counting on that to happen in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss the amendments and the article? Mr. Tinker Bell signed up. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u52	I would still ask if we could just get an answer to these questions that have been raised. I also mentioned if this 30-day deadline is problematic, that we can also replace it in the process, but there must be some deadline in the law. And secondly, perhaps a public explanation, because the plenary session still listens and follows more people than committee meetings – where will these wastes go? Where will more than 10,000 tons of waste packaging and candles go? Do we know that today? Don't we know that today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thanks for the comments. I'm going to draw a little systemic stuff, because it's not that simple, and I'm going to touch those 30 days, because we've now heard some content. First of all, where the garbage will go. I can inform you that I have just signed the 28th Treaty during the meeting. They're still coming into the house, and all these wastes are going through the normal currents as they've gone by now. No new stuff, we're not finding any new landfills. What happened was that the situation became a little exploitative, we gave new money, and all of a sudden, the waste doors were reopened. There are no new landfills, companies are doing their job, it is clear, the regulation that we adopted in the government under an emergency about one month ago has achieved its objectives; and again, because we have provided some additional money with what should already be implemented. I noticed a question about what might happen. I'm going to link up a little bit with when we went to change environmental permits, one company complained, the other not. Some understand that things have to be done, but some try these legal maneuvers. I expect the same thing here. But it is precisely because I am convinced that the system itself should achieve its objectives that we must go to the Ministry after the adoption of the law to the maximum extent possible to carry out the regression claims. Here we will do everything, with clear explanations, even after complaints about the environmental permit, as the court further decided on the quantities. I think we have options, even because we are already thinking ahead, even because I think companies understand that order needs to be established. Starting on 1 June next year, we are reducing from 15 tonnes to zero the amount of waste. All of this will also help businesses to understand that they must now work their way out; at the same time, we already have the content ready for the first round of the ZVO, as we discussed on the Committee. I count that even in the first half of the next year, we would have these contents prepared. Now a little bit more about these 30 days in the amendment. I can hear you, we've been over this with the team - we'd be drinking water and we should change things a little bit. Since this is a large amount of money, a European call for proposals will be issued. Yesterday we also spoke among the Members of Parliament's questions, we know our national sport of complaining about public calls. Here is the only solution to agree that when we select a person to drive, we give her 30 days to take it away, but then the rest of the remainder, from receiving a written notice of inspection forward, not because it cuts with the articles themselves. The inspection will give a notice, we won't have the invitation to tender yet, and then the whole thing can go down. But I can hear you with ideas, and I think it would make sense to talk when the chosen person is given a 30-day deadline to take it away. I think that in this way we will speed up the process and that we can find a compromise here somewhere, of course in balance, so that this law is adopted in a broader context. I think I touched the main things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zvonko Černač wants the word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u56	Have a nice hello to everyone again. I think it's right that there's a deadline in marriage. And I think we all understand that the Minister is trapped in as much regulation as we have, and that outside of this regulation he cannot. But if this is to be accepted somehow, then it is true that our parliamentary groups are concerned that we will also support this law in the final reading, because I think that the deadline in the marriage must be. I am saddened, however, that yesterday we were not by the President of the Government, says the First Minister, to have heard some more decisive words that this system in the field of the revision of public procurement, which is not adequate, will be put to an end. Because you can see that in every matter that we are dealing with, every law we adopt, even in such a law, when it comes to necessary, intervention measures, we run into an inadequate audit procedure. Inadequate in the sense that this audit, which is supposed to ensure greater efficiency in public procurement, has become contrary to this. And through spelling and picolicism, it prevents a more cost-effective choice in public procurement and a wide range of contracting entities, which follow the basic principles of public procurement, by rejecting their decisions. This grieves me, and I think that the biggest problem in implementing policies in particular areas will be the ministers of this government, because the Prime Minister obviously does not realize that there is a problem here. I hope that tomorrow the merits of the debate on the Government's response to this issue, which I have addressed, will be confirmed, not only on one audit procedure, but on the whole. If the government does not change this, then I think that the National Assembly is the one who has to take a separate legislative initiative and change the inappropriate way in the field of public procurement review, which makes it impossible to carry out normal procedures on the one hand, and on the other hand does not allow better, more transparent and more cost-effective choice of operators. However, as far as the law is concerned, if this is as the Minister has said, and this amendment will then be supported by this editorial amendment, which we will prepare, then the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will also support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it? If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday 19 December in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on the gentleman's allowance. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, a group of eleven Members and Members with the first-signed Joseph Horvat requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u58	Your Honor! In recent months, many inequalities and injustices have been eliminated as a result of the work of past governments. We all want to take care of the most vulnerable, socially disadvantaged people together, but at the same time we forget all 56,000 women who live below the poverty line and do not receive even 500 euros in pensions. In 2011, the then Minister Ivan Svetlik, by amending the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, intervened in the area of the most vulnerable in our society, such as women who, because of their previous system, did not allow them to benefit from pension insurance and remained at home on the farm or cared for households and children without a decent payment. By 2011, the State of Slovenia had recognised a so-called state pension to enable basic survival for individuals over 65 years of age. In 2012, the state pension was abolished. According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, there is 1 in Slovenia. 1. 2018 lived 217 thousand 960 women aged 65 and over. The pension in Slovenia according to STIZ data receives 200 thousand 467 women, of which 65 thousand 579 women are less than 500 euros. In Novi Slovenija, we want to improve the situation of women over 65 years of age with the household allowance law in order to give them a monthly allowance of 100 euros for the work they have done without this work being evaluated at any time and anywhere. If the household allowance were to be received by all women who receive up to EUR 500, amounting to EUR 100 per month, it would mean that 6 million EUR 557 thousand should be provided in the state budget or pension allowance. It is estimated that in Slovenia there are 83 thousand 72 women aged 65 and over, with pensions or other revenue from public funds below EUR 500; therefore, they should be provided for the exercise of the right to a household allowance of EUR 8 million 307 000 200 per month. There are still differences between men and women in terms of paid and unpaid work. Differences are, of course, to the detriment of women, which is reflected in their overburden and unequal situation. The introduction of a household allowance would significantly alleviate poverty among older women who live alone or who also have very low incomes. Recognizing the household work that they have done all their lives would also make it possible and easy for them to admit it in part. This would be a waste of part of the funding of NGOs whose scope and functioning is unduly extended precisely because the matter is not systematically resolved. When the financial capacity of the State is allowed, the household allowance would be introduced as a universal household allowance. Once again, in recent months, we have eliminated many inequalities and injustices. With a household allowance, we would help and save a very socially disadvantaged group of women, for whom the Institute for Social Work and Protection also warns that they live in Slovenia under the poverty threshold and are the most endangered group in our country. With the support of our proposal for a law, we could at least partially help them in their personal distress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mrs Breda Božnik for an introductory presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u60	Dear President, honourable Members, distinguished Members and other guests, welcome! The proposal for the Home Supplement Act, which has been tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Horvat, proposes the introduction of a household allowance to alleviate poverty among older women living alone who are 65 years of age or older and who receive a pension of up to EUR 500, or if other funds from the state budget or public funds do not exceed that amount. The purpose of this law is also to evaluate the household work of women who are not considered to be work anywhere, as proposed by the proposers. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is that the proposal for a household supplement law is not suitable for further consideration, for the following reasons. In Slovenia we have a system of social protection, which is intended for socially disadvantaged persons and is financed from the State budget, and a system of compulsory social insurance, which generally guarantees rights when an insurance case is made in relation to the contributions paid. The State provides social security for persons, i.e. women over 65 years of age who cannot afford material security themselves because of circumstances which cannot be affected by social security benefits, namely money social assistance and its particular form, this is an extremely financial social assistance and a security allowance. This is an institution dedicated to socially disadvantaged persons and the conditions for obtaining these rights are governed by the Law on Social Security Benefits and the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. A person who is included in a compulsory pension shall be entitled to a pension according to the contributions paid. Women are granted additional benefits under the pension scheme due to child care and increased informal employment involvement, with the possibility of lowering the age of retirement and higher rates compared to male insured persons. Where a person is entitled to a low amount pension and is socially vulnerable, he or she shall be entitled to financial social assistance and a social security allowance in compliance with the conditions laid down by law. The threshold for obtaining monetary social assistance for a single person currently amounts to 392,75 euros and 577,34 euros for a protective allowance. The government further explains that future measures are also envisaged, and measures are also envisaged to improve the social situation of pensioners. The social situation of pensioners will be improved in the future by regular harmonisation, in accordance with the system law; and by extraordinary harmonisations consistent with the financial capabilities of the country. However, for individuals who are yet to retire, the social situation of future changes will be resolved through a rise in percentage rates, i.e. a dose per dose of all types of pensions. Dear Members, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is that the proposal for a household allowance law is not suitable for further consideration and therefore proposes that this proposal be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u62	Sadly, the ages do not always show happy stories and happy individuals and individuals entering the fall of life. It should be safe, carefree and healthy. That's probably what we all want. Therefore, talking about ageing is by no means too much, especially when we look at statistics that are actually speaking in themselves. They are older than the active population in terms of living standards. The indicators of poverty and social exclusion are the highest among them, especially among older single women, whom today's law refers to. Despite the fact that negative trends in the general rate of poverty have already begun to stop in recent years. But today's solution, referred to as the household allowance, raises another important issue: the issue of sharing informal work between the two sexes. The fact is that in Slovenia housework and care work is not paid is feminized. Women take most care of children and other dependent members, as well as most household chores. However, the additional problem of uneven division of labour is the ageing society, which mainly puts this concern on the shoulders of women. The views on whether this is right or wrong are different and we do not want to politicize it; at least it is not this city. But it is right to realize that if we are to take care of the elderly members of our society, we must urgently think of domestic work as the duty of each of us, regardless of gender. Perhaps the time has come for these changes, or more women than men will continue to grow into the world through the kitchen window. Today's measure, which seeks to institutionalise the household allowance, addresses a particularly deprived group of elderly single women who undoubtedly need to be heard by the authorities. However, this measure should also be addressed slightly wider, in terms of the ratios to the entire social protection system. This ensures social security, with all due care, with financial social assistance, with exceptional financial assistance and with a protective allowance. The number of recipients of the latter is increasing. In August it was given to over 18 thousand 300 people over 63 and 65 years of age. This increase is also due to a recent change in the law that has abolished the property records. The aim of the measure was to improve the situation of older people, especially those with single-member households, where the risk of poverty is highest. The measure appears positive and we hope that it will at least partially reflect itself in the coming years in the decline in the risk of poverty among the elderly. While the household allowance does not appear to be sufficiently well-introduced in the form of a new law in the existing social protection system. In complete independence from existing institutions and cities, the issue of unequal treatment even opens up. In our view, there is also an open dilemma as to whether the right to a household allowance can be derived from pre-insurance. We estimate that this is a social security right and therefore the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance does not appear to be the most suitable holder of this right. We wish that rhetoric in today's debate would not be exaggerated. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that in order to prevent poverty in age, social policies must be designed to encourage women to education and employment, which provide safe and quality services in the field of child and old care and thus relieve women of unpaid care. We must not fall asleep in this area, so we will closely monitor all the current, in particular the follow-up measures. Today's proposal does not address these aspects sufficiently in our view, so it does not have our support at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Once again a nice greeting to everyone, including everyone on the balcony! The proposal for a household allowance law addresses a pressing problem that has been discussed in recent years. It is a recognition of caring or reproductive work, which is the most common reason for women’s poverty in their old age, as it affects their employment careers. Although this proposal addresses the current problem, the solution offered in the form of a proposal for a household supplement law is inadequate with several aspects. The category of older women is among the most vulnerable groups at higher risk of poverty and social exclusion. Data for Slovenia show that the level of risk to poverty for women at all ages is higher than for men. The age gap is still growing, and differences occur after 60 years of age. This is related to pensions and women's work history, involvement in paid work. Due to the wage gap in the active working age, women receive lower pensions after work. In the European Union, the difference in pensions between men and women may reach up to 45%. The Slovenian gender pension gap was 24% in 2012. Slovenia also considers that the gender gap is greater than that of most European Union countries. In most Eastern European countries, the percentage of pension gaps is lower than 16%. The social situation in age is influenced by the education, employment and coordination of work and private life, where we consider in particular the distribution of childcare or reproductive work in private. Despite the higher education of women, the employment rate of women is lower. Women, however, dominate poorly paid professional groups. It's important how these intersections intertwine in a woman's life. Let me go back to the proposal of the law, which Levica considers to be inadequate from several perspectives. First of all, the name of the additive ‘household supplement’ is not appropriate. It is not appropriate to reduce women after 65 years with the lowest income to the category of supplement arising from sexual inequality and unequal gender division. The rationale for the proposal is retroactive, the argument of the domesticisation of women and the gender-biased division of labour and the sex decision is used, which is that men can also be the host. The proposal overlooks all those men who have also interrupted their employment careers by caring for a family member or a host. Women and men who do not have a full-time job fall out of a minimum of EUR 500 per month's pension, Article 2. The age limit 65 years is also problematic, again referring to Article 2, because women, as well as men, can retire from this age limit. The condition of at least 30 years of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, which relates to Article 4, is nationalistic, since it has the intention to prevent other women from receiving the right to social supplement from being given out of close place, such as migrants, and to fully overlook that people and modern societies are mobile and that mobility will continue to grow in the future. The justification states that the introduction of the household allowance would lead to the abandonment of part of NGO funding, whose scope and functioning is unduly extended precisely because the matter is not systematically resolved. This interpretation is clearly directed towards the non-governmental sector and denies its vital importance for the functionality of democracy. The intention is also unclear to extend and introduce a universal household allowance, subject to the country's financial capacity. We note in Levica that the proposal addresses a problem that is acute and needs to be addressed. We support the initiative to open up the issue of the poverty of the older generation, especially women, and the poverty of pensioners and pensioners. However, we believe that this area should be regulated systematically as a universal scheme covering the entire vulnerable population without discriminatory divisions. Eligibility depends on the social situation of individuals and individuals. Poverty in age is a consequence of the entire life course and is the accumulation of inequalities throughout life. The poverty risk rate was 19.5% for women over 60 years of age in 2017 and 11.8% for men. In Slovenia, the problem of the high risk of poverty in older women has failed because we do not implement measures to reduce the rate of poverty of the population and reduce inequalities between men and women. The problem must be addressed in terms of social justice and equality. With the restoration of capitalism, there has been a re-traditionalisation of society and re-patriarchisation in the countries of former socialism, leading to an increase in gender inequality, in particular to the detriment of women. By breaking the social state, the burdens borne by women in the household and in the care or reproductive work are increasing. In the area of tackling the social problem of poverty, we are in favour of a fair social, childcare and pension policy in Levica, mainly in relation to the statistical poorest national population of women at 65 years of age. We draw attention to the importance of a comprehensive solution to this problem and to the failure of partial measures. The measure should be more universal and inclusive. It is problematic to introduce supplements based on sex-specific ideologies and insist on sexual division of labour. In the light of all the proposals set out in the left hand side, we cannot support this form of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u66	Dear Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, all present, very welcome! According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, women are still doing more unpaid care and household work, which still shows an uneven distribution of work between partners. As a result, more and more time is spent on caring for the household, the children, the elderly, and other assistance needed by family members and members. We spend an average of 42 hours per week on housework and care work, that is another worker, and a male average of 28 hours, of course all those who evenly distribute household chores at home, but statistics show. This work is nowhere taken into account, which is not fair. The social situation of women continues to deteriorate after the age of 65, especially those who live alone. According to Sursa 1. 1. 2018 were women living alone who were on average 65 years of age. The purpose of the law we have drawn up in Novi Slovenije is to evaluate the household work of women who are not elsewhere considered as work. This injustice would be abolished by the introduction of a so-called household allowance. This would alleviate the poverty of women in their old age, as statistics show that the most poor are women over the age of 65, single or widowed, and those living alone. The Domestic Supplement Act, as the first such law in Slovenia, treats and regulates the rights of women aged 65 and over who receive a pension of up to EUR 500. However, those women who are not recipients of a pension may receive a household allowance if other funds from the state budget or public funds do not exceed the amount already mentioned. In Novi Slovenija, by introducing a household allowance of EUR 100, we want to facilitate the situation of women over the age of 65 who receive pensions or other funds from public treasury, less than EUR 500; and thus reduce the poverty and insecurity of women in their age. Christian Democrats, however, would like the household allowance to be given to all women over 65 years of age for additional work to become universal; but this will be possible once the financial capabilities allow it. Dear Members and honourable Members! In New Slovenia we expect you to support the marriage of all socially sensitive Members, especially those who appreciate the work of our mothers and grandmothers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! The economic crisis has brought about a significant increase in the number of groups of citizens and citizens living on the edge and under the edge of poverty. Its consequences still have a strong impact on the possibility of a decent life, especially those affected by austerity measures. These measures are and still have a strong negative impact on the social situation of individuals, families and communities. The social situation of people is affected by many other different social circumstances, economic conditions, the situation in the labour market, the availability of employment, the accessibility of education, the accessibility of various public health and social services, the level of income and so on. All these different circumstances, however, require coordinated appropriate measures, which are complex, which then turn into appropriate legislative changes, which then bind the different rights of citizens, with which we help them in their social situation. Measures and, as a consequence, legislative changes in the area of family policy – and this area is very sensitive – must be particularly thoughtful and in the long term. The proposed Home Supplement Act, however, addresses and regulates matters in part. It regulates rights for women aged 65 and over and their pension or their other allowances from public funds do not exceed EUR 500. The proposer thus follows the improvement of the socio-economic situation of women, but in the Alenka Bratušek Group of Members, we believe that the aim expressed by the applicant is noble, and we want to do so ourselves. I believe that no one sitting in this Chamber today is opposed to the objectives of the proposed amendments, but the picture is not so uniform. Beautiful and noble desires for a group are one, but other aspects need to be taken into account. For example, when there was a talk about women's unpaid work, this factor has already been taken into account somewhere in the current pension system, through a higher percentage of women's pensions. I do not want to say that this is enough and that this is appropriate, but there are other solutions. Social security is provided to both women and men over 65 years of age who cannot provide themselves with material security in the context of social security of remuneration, with financial assistance, with exceptional social assistance and with social assistance in accordance with the Social Security Benefits Act and the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources. In the SAB Group, we also agree with the Government's conclusion that the proposed Domestic Supplement Act does not guarantee equal treatment between women and men, so we believe that this right, the right to a household allowance, should be exercised at universal level, irrespective of gender. In the Alenka Bratušek Group for all of this we conclude that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members and Members and all the others, welcome! We have before us a very welcome proposal for a household allowance law that, according to the proposal, would alleviate the poverty of older women who receive a pension of less than EUR 500, or are recipients of other resources from the state budget that do not exceed that amount. Regardless of the fact that more and more men are doing housework and caring work, we regret that there is still a traditional division of these parts that speak to the detriment of women, because they are overloaded and unequal. While we are already dealing with inequality, the gender differences that this proposal is destroying must first be highlighted. Why is this proposal discriminatory? He's discriminating with multiple angles. For the first time, he was unfair to women who were employed in their active working life full-time and also worked on the farm for the remaining 16 hours on the day of the mother, the wife, the guardians of other family members. At the same time, it discriminates against men who do these jobs and are also recipients of income below EUR 500. We agree that the rural environment in particular needs to be taken into account, where, following the results presented at the international conference in spring: Rural, rural women and farmers, where are we? This leads us to the general conclusion that there is still much work to be done in Slovenia in terms of equality between women and men in the field of balanced sharing of care and household work. According to the data obtained by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, a rural woman in Slovenia is 52 years old and spends 44 hours a week working at the same time as working on the farm to take care of all household chores and often other family members who live at home. They deserve 15% less than men if we compare their employment on mixed farms. It is these women who are at a significantly higher risk of poverty leading to social exclusion, as they often do not have the appropriate insurance to protect them against it. I am convinced that there is no one in this room who would object to the fact that women are still doing more unpaid, caring and domestic work. Unpaid work by women in OECD countries represents between one third and one half of the evaluated economic activity, in the fact that women are still paid worse for formal work than men. Women face stress and burnout because of overwork in their professional and personal lives, and these women are not only over 65 years of age, but are employed, self - employed, mothers and so on — that I will not list all the roles that women play. When we talk about a household allowance that would mean a dose for all the work that women and men do at home for our children, grandchildren, elderly parents — in addition to all other household obligations — let us keep in mind the principle of equality and equality. If so, then we should take care of a universal household allowance for both sexes based on social protection rights, or even more logically, it would come from the family policy fund. Caring for family, children, partners, parents is a family policy. That's what we believe in the Desus Group. It follows that this right can by no means be decided by the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, as stated by the applicant. This proposal is about improving the social situation, which we provide from a second address in Slovenia and is not subject to taxation. In the Desus Group, we believe that such income should not be counted as tax revenue. The proposal provides for an additional EUR 100 million at the annual level to be covered by the state budget. However, the replacement of the source from the budget cannot be seen by the proposer, so this amount should therefore also be provided from the budget. The next question that opens up to us is how to make appropriate adjustments to the household allowance if the censorship changes. But then it will be just like the reconciliation of pensions: once yes, twice no. We certainly need to do something to eradicate poverty in Slovenia, especially for the elderly, but knowing that we are doing this in the same and equal and fair way. Due to the facts raised by this proposal, we cannot support the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! Today we are considering the Proposal for a Domestic Supplement Act, which was tabled by Nova Slovenije in the legislative procedure. The proposed amendments aim to evaluate women's household work by introducing the so-called household allowance and thus to alleviate poverty among older women. The fact is that in Slovenia, demographic change and ageing are the most exposed to poverty among the older people, especially those living alone. Among them, poverty especially threatens older women, who mostly have lower pensions. In order for their material situation to improve at least a little bit, we have today in the consideration of the Proposal for a Domestic Supplement Act, which treats and regulates, as the first such law in Slovenia, rights for women over the age of 65 who receive a pension or other income of less than EUR 500. Data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia show that women's poverty is higher than men's poverty in all ages, and this is confirmed in particular in over 60 years of age. This certainly contributes greatly to a huge amount of unpaid work done by women through life and thus benefits not only their family members, children and the elderly, but also society as a whole. Therefore, women have a more flexible period of employment; more than one way out of work is to take care of family members, maternity, sick leave for children. Thus, women are those who take on more of the unpaid family custody obligations both for children and for the elderly. Many of the reasons for this are the suspension of work, reduced working hours and less responsible work, which is thus reflected in their lower pension. It is therefore not surprising that in Slovenia the highest risk of poverty is in older single women. By adopting today's legislation by introducing a household allowance of EUR 100 to all women over 65 who receive a pension or other income of less than EUR 500 have improved their social and financial situation. The proposed solution recognises the domestic work of women who have not yet been evaluated under the current rules, so that they can systematically alleviate the poverty among pensioners living alone, in contrast to the solutions they have so far. In view of the above, we will also support the proposal for a household allowance in the first reading of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Karl Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u74	All present, well-known! The Nova Slovenija Group proposed a law to intervene in a new partial way in the social situation of older women. It is proposed to introduce a household allowance to which women over 65 years of age would be entitled who receive less than €500. We understand the objectives and objectives pursued by the proposer in the Letter of Marjan Šarc, but we do not understand the moments when laws are being tabled in a populist manner with a significant impact on the state budget. The proposal for a law before us should be specifically revised and finalized in order to be acceptable. Surely it is not fair for some individuals in our society to live with incomes that do not allow for decent survival. As a society, we need to take care of everyone who needs help, but this does not mean that we can carelessly invest in draft laws that are not sufficiently sophisticated and politically thought out in order to survive the legislative siesta. Even in the Marjan Sarca Group, we would like to take care of older women with a pension of less than 500 euros, but at the same time we would like to take care of all children whose families, despite the fact that both parents are employed, do not deserve enough to go to sea or learn to ski until the age of 15. We would also like to take care of students who work at the university so that they can afford it at all. There's a lot of social injustices and help that's needed. The reality is different and, unfortunately, financial capabilities are very limited. All these proposals, which would have costly financial implications for the state budget, come from the Nova Slovenije Group, which has repeatedly stressed how to reduce taxes and thus, of course, reduce the state treasury for a number of millions; precisely for these millions, which they offer to the Slovenian public through such appropriate proposals. This indicates that the said parliamentary group is not sincere in its functioning, as it is well aware that it would be difficult to implement such contradictory solutions in the event of participation in the coalition. In our view, the bill has some shortcomings. Equally, the situation puts household work evaluation on the basis of sex. We want such social protection measures to ensure an easier social situation for all beneficiaries and not distinguish them on the basis of personal circumstances such as sex. Such a household allowance could be universal, as is the case elsewhere in the European Union. The amount of the supplement could depend on several classes of remuneration. According to the current proposal, it is possible that two pensioners who receive a substantially different amount of pension, of course less than EUR 500, would receive the same amount of household allowance, which we do not think is most appropriate. The applicant could also create a specific procedure for obtaining the right to a household allowance, as this is a transfer aimed at the socially disadvantaged. However, I have the feeling that the easiest thing to do was to write down that the general administrative procedure is used to obtain the right. Nor does it seem right for us to choose the competent authority to obtain the right, i.e. the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. It would make more sense that these are social work centers. We currently provide social protection to persons in difficult social situations with benefits under the Social Security Benefits Act and the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. In this regard, we have in mind financial social assistance or exceptional financial social assistance and a protective allowance. We are aware that such a system of social security also has shortcomings that should be addressed appropriately, but not in part on the basis of the legislative proposals that are in favour. In the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarca, we will not support the Proposal for a Domestic Supplement Act. This bill requires systematic comprehensive solutions, which also require detailed credible risk analysis, weaknesses, advantages and weaknesses in the introduction of this type of supplement, and not only in the material the financial amount mentioned, which is not further substantiated.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law that highlights real, important and pressing problems. It is poverty among older women, especially those living alone during the fall of life, and instead of working, they have invested an important part of their energy and time in caring for their families, household chores and other unpaid but urgently needed work, which is still not evenly distributed between the two sexes in our society. Even today, although Slovenia is one of the countries where the distribution of domestic work among the sexes is among the most even in the world, this work is mostly done by women. Unfortunately, there is no recognition for this work, no relief, and often no gratitude, except to take this into account in their profession. All of this is reflected in the fact that women do more domestic work and household chores than men, that in particular women benefit from sick leave for sick children, that women are the ones who sacrifice their careers to a greater extent and the benefits for the welfare of their families. Slovenian and many other pension systems are oriented so that in the autumn of life we receive a pension according to the amount of payments we have paid as employees in total. The fact that many for such and other reasons have not always been employed is, of course, not recognised by the established systems. Unemployment is seen as an unprofitable system and because it has not paid, rights are not recognised. This is a cruel explanation of the consequences of setting up a system that sees employment as a uniquely beneficial work in the context of a working relationship. Therefore, at this point, the principle of ensuring that our pensions are as high as we will contribute to them and, on the other hand, the principle of fairness, by which everyone must at least cover the basic needs, regardless of its payments. It is therefore a reflection that we welcome from the Social Democrats. The proposal provides a formal recognition that people are also doing useful and important work outside of working relationships and relationships. It is even more important to realize that this work is unfairly divided between men and women by taking over most of the unpaid work and, in return, by reducing their wages for work as well as their pensions. This is simply unfair and not fair. The proposal recognises several important facts, including the Social Democrats in Slovenia and abroad, for a very long time, that we cannot appreciate a person only after his paid work and that women at home must be supported by three corners, while at the same time they are expected to compete equally with men in the labour market. That is why the debate that we need to support is, in fact, a debate on equality between men and women, not only in the legal situation and equal treatment, but also in the sharing of work, especially domestically. However, this debate cannot only end with the Roco-Swiss proposal that a very narrowly selected low-income group of low-income women be granted a special allowance due to their low-retirement pensions. It is not that the proposal makes no sense, and it is certainly right that we begin to correct injustices in those whose situation is most difficult. In particular, it is a matter of speeding up such a pension system so diverse that we must fortify it so that it can provide people with what we expect of it. And that's a decent pension for everyone. Your Honor! The good 8 million euros that we would need every month to help the lowest pension recipients in the proposal would amount to EUR 100 million per year, and this would only help the weak ones in part, without even knowing whether the reasons for the lower pension for each recipient really stem from the care of the family. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, but not because it would oppose the improvement of the situation of the recipients of the lowest pensions, and not because we would not be convinced that the country should mitigate the consequences of unequal labour sharing, in which the short-term end would normally involve women. We will object mainly to the proposal because it does not address the causes and because the problems do not fully address them. We welcome, however, the beginning of the debate, which we hope will encourage both the Government and the proposer, as well as other invited ones, to come up with comprehensive solutions that will finally begin to mitigate the criminal consequences of the unfair division of labour between men and women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The text is by Iva Dimic, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much to all the parliamentary groups for their views, but we have something in common. We all know and know that the real problems in poverty are mainly in rural areas among single women. But why did this happen, and I need to comment a little bit on your point of view. I have listened attentively to them because, last but not least, I have been following this issue here since 2011, and I know what the debates have been like in the past. It seems to me that, despite everything in these six, seven years, we may have taken a step or two further, however, that you are also trying to realize that in the past the injustice has been committed or that the amendment of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds was not only as ideal as it was presented, and that in 2013 the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection had pointed out that the amendments to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds were perhaps somewhat reckless, incomplete, but still legal. Why did we give up 65 years or more? In particular, because these women were still active and active in the previous regime, when it was possible that many were not able to take social and pension insurance and simply stayed at home and took care of the family, the children, the home; in short, the home was taken care of. Of course, if a country or a system does not allow you to be socially insured to receive a well-deserved pension from payments, then it seems to me that it is also the duty of the State to in some way eliminate such injustices or conditions. As far as division is concerned. You all mentioned that the law is not appropriate because the simple name of the household allowance is inappropriate and comes from sexual inequality and gender division. Once again, as I said, it comes from the former system. They're not women, 40 years old, they're women, 65 years old or older, when some system wouldn't allow it. And another thing is, if the title of the household allowance is not correct, we are all Members for so long now, and we know that this simply with the amendment to change, right, and the law can also be improved by amendments. If in the state budget the revenue is higher than the expenditure and we have some surplus, I think it is right that then all the irregularities caused by the poor economic picture are eliminated, and surely these single women are somewhere in the countryside – perhaps even forgotten – are still on the turn. Many have heard that the purpose of our marriage is noble and many want the marriage to be adopted. See, since in the first reading the law can be adopted and then the coalition can organise it — not for the first time — it would be very good. In Novi Slovenija, we offer a cooperation hand all the time. We've given the idea, and it's up to you to design, reshape and implement this idea. I think we all want this thing to work. How is work shared and gender equality shared? I wish it would be in the future, it is up to us that this equality will work in the future. As a woman, I want them to be equal, equally paid, have equal opportunities, equal opportunities for employment and be treated equally. As a woman I can say, even today, in 2018, it's not like that yet. Our statistics still show that we are women in an inferior position. Just yesterday, the press asked me why there are no more women in Slovenian politics. Yeah, why are there no more women in Slovenian politics? For the first time, because everyone is saying that Slovenian politics is dirty, and women certainly do not want to work in such an environment. Second, because perhaps men have taken some privilege more and would simply like to push a woman where they used to be, and thus women over 65 are in a worse position. However, we do not allow modern women to do so, so we are fighting and we want more and more women to be placed in key places in Slovenian politics and in the economy. Women understand what the problem is, and we know how to drive a family budget, but if you don't have the basic resources to operate – and these women who don't even have the 500 euros, most of them have, you know, not the 500 euros, but between €147 and €257, maybe even some pensionable disabled persons, are the most invalids we still don't have in order to be European comparable – it seems to me that we just can't talk about a gender equality. It can be written on paper and after you expose gender equality here, women feel even weaker; especially if you say that to a man who is in positions that you have the power to decide in this country and in the National Assembly. However, women, those who do not actually have these 500 euros of state pension, do not have the power to be heard. They can go to a social work centre and ask for money social assistance or a social allowance, but I know something, and there is also a sad picture of the reorganisation of social work centres. I'm afraid I have to touch that. There's some confusion in there, too. I hope you know that, too, the coalition MPs. I hope the mail we get on our e-mails comes to you. You know what happened at the time of the state scholarships, when the children's allowances were given for the new school year, that certain children turned out not to be in time, and that families were practically two, three months without children's allowances. I just got my dad's mail yesterday, and he's got seven kids, and they haven't had baby supplements in three months. And when he goes to the competent centre for social work, they tell him, listen, and we are no longer competent, go to the next place, now they're leading you. What have we done with the reorganisation of social work centres? I hope that you coalition Members are aware of this and that you will try to do so as soon as possible. You said that this was too much pressure on the pension system to make this supplement, household or whatever you call it - I stress once again, here it can be corrected by amendments, some other term that is more appropriate – that this is not sustainable and that the pension system cannot do so, because the pension system is earned pensions arising from payments. Please, be serious! You know, I'm sure you know how much in this pension system there are some pension benefits that don't come from payments. In 2012, we wanted to clean this up with a pension reform, and that didn't happen. Moreover, it even went to the Constitutional Court and then went back to this well-deserved pension – privileged, I can say here today – returned to the first stage. Why it can be a privilege in this country only for some, for those women who are poor, but it must not be a privilege. And you're talking about how much it's going to cost and how much it's going to cost the state budget or the pension fund. All of this burdens, including undeserved pensions, still being received by someone and some in this country. I am sure that our work must go in the direction that we are all equal and equal in this country. If someone can get on the basis of some past work, which may have been very important for some even for the previous system, and if it can get a privileged pension, I think that because of work, due to concern, because, last but not least, the work at home and the care of the household is work for good citizenship education, for the upbringing of good citizens and work and for the good of the country. I think these women deserve a confession, too. The amount of EUR 100 is not so high, but if it is large, you have mentioned that it may not be fair for two women with different pensions, widows' pensions or any farm to have different heights, and it is not fair for them to get both 100 euros. [[…]] If he gets one 220 and one 247, there's a very big difference – isn't there? I think they both deserve 100 euros or more, because it is necessary to understand that many times these women may have a smaller field, a land of land where they can produce food, but at the end of the day this may be taken into account in the calculation of a protective allowance or financial social assistance, which I do not think is unfair. It seems simple to me that it is right that we may also be discussing today in the direction of what is a privilege and what is not and what is a necessity and what is our duty to eliminate austerity measures, or whatever I might say, or to remove some injustices. I want a good debate, I want a fair debate, I want a debate, not least, even on the sharing of work in the household, although I have no problem with it myself. However, I think that all of us who are called upon to work may even be burned to do something good to someone, but let us do something good together, and let us help these single women not only be statistics year after year, statistics as many as we have, and that we do not wait for this statistics to shrink because of nature itself. Let's do something and help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The first one has the word Joseph Horvath, to prepare Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say, some of the views of the members of the groups have shaken me. You say the goals are good, but they're populist and I don't know how else. And of course, the words that have been spoken most frequently in this mandate are not comprehensive, not systemic, but partial. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in Cankarjev year, at least I would expect a little more wealth offered by the Slovenian language. Colleagues and colleagues, are you ashamed of whether we are ashamed of our mothers, who are waiting here at the threshold of the National Assembly in high rubber boots, in a sissy-green route and perhaps with a sense in hand — if I am a little Cancarian. What an excuse this is not a good marriage! What an excuse, unbelievable! We have 346,000 people living below the poverty line, plus those who are socially excluded. This is more than 17.3% of the total Slovenian population, our population, our citizens and citizens. 346,000 people will experience these Christmas and New Year’s holidays – but how? In the most bitter way possible, because it is these holidays, exactly the Christmas holidays, that are the ones that make people in poverty especially desperate and sad and aware that when poverty comes, dignity goes. 346,000 people, these are official statistics, they have no dignity in this country! Of course our solutions are partial! Of course, because we're talking about a household allowance because we're talking about women over 65! We didn't invent those criteria. We're reading scientific articles. See, on the website of the National Institute for Public Health is the address of the Poverty of Older Women in Slovenia. Scientific, not political, scientific contributions, equipped with many tables, statistics that are frightening. In 2015, I accidentally opened this page and looked at the level of the risk of poverty of the elderly by sex. I don't want to get you into a bad mood, but those who have eliminated the sex you have abolished probably don't recognize these tables, but in Slovenia there are men and women, women and men. The poverty risk rate 2015 totalled 17.2 %. Men were 10.2%) and women were 22.2%), more than twice as many, so we focused on women here. This morning at the MVK — what a joy it was for the minister to propose a woman to the Governing Council! Thank God, I'm saying. And now all of a sudden, housework isn't a woman or whatever, I don't know, because that's amazing. But because of what I have just said in this scientific article, we have focused on the household allowance for women, because women in the structure of the poorest are the dominant ones. Is that understandable? Do you need to draw something? There we heard from the LMŠ that the centre – now the lady is not here – is that social work centres are regulating these matters. It is true, as colleague Iva Dimic said, that I hear horrors on the ground what you have done with the reorganisation of social work centres! You dismantled that system, you dismantled it! I hope that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will soon serve with some evaluation. I hope that you too are experiencing this and are receiving these comments. Unfortunately, this has now fallen on this government's table, I regret, I feel sorry for you, Madam Secretary of State, but what's coming to us is a horror. What kind of social state? What kind of social state is this? A few other professional articles, not to say political, I found ourselves discussing this proposal that we have taken seriously because we are serious. A well-known Slovenian sociologist, I do not want to expose her, among other things, she writes in her discussion, “but the area of long-term care remains disorderly. [[…]] All the recent reforms of the Social Democratic Ministers, from Ivan Svetlik, who abolished the minimum state pensions, until the last social reform under Minister Anjo Kopač Dark, who also intervened in the protection allowance and turned him into a reciprocating social assistance, deepened the poverty." See the article “Poverty Is Humiliation and Guilt, ” 3 / 1 5. 2018 that no one will think that I am making this up now. Nor does the Government invent when it says that "if a person is entitled to a pension in a low amount or does not have the right to a pension and is socially threatened, he is entitled to financial social assistance and a social security allowance when fulfilling all the legal conditions laid down". Of course! I come from the countryside. You probably don't like this, so I'm close to those people who are in trouble. Yes, they also have a patch of soil, a patchwork that our people have been putting together for the rest of their lives. And because of these fields, these rags, they're not entitled to what the government says here. Because that's the law, of course! But they have to live. You'll say, yes, whether it's sales or maybe it'd be better for the state to nationalize, which is probably a matter for the near future. How are you going to tell someone who's been putting land together on a farm for the rest of their lives to sell money for social assistance? He's not selling! Because then he denied his whole life. Thousands of cases could tell you, but there is always a limited debate in Parliament. I just can't understand that you can't support such a law because you say the goals are right, that it's okay, that it's really poverty, that there's more poor older women than, say, men; but: it's not comprehensive, it's not systemic, it's partial! Yes, say this now before the holidays to these people, to those women we wish to at least correct a little bit of what Minister Svetlik brought them. She brutally hit this case in the countryside, which you will also admit to the coalition MPs coming from the countryside, she brutally hit. Therefore, dear colleagues, I invite you to reflect; and please, not so much as a loving, populist law. At least New Slovenia is not a populist party, we do not work to be liked. We do what we see in the field, because we're close to people, see how people live. We see what statistics say, 346,000, more than 17% of citizens and citizens! I know you'll reconsider until tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Blaž Pavlin has the word to prepare Aljaž Kovačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u82	Dear President, Honourable Fellow Member and Fellow Members! It is almost unbelievable that in Slovenia there are more than 65,000 women who receive a pension of less than EUR 500, or 83 thousand who are 65 years of age or older and who receive less than EUR 500 with their pension and other revenue from public funds. Among them, it is certain that the majority of those who receive a farmer's pension or who were granted a state pension before 2011 which was abolished. The introduction of a household allowance would significantly alleviate poverty among older women who are mostly single or have very low incomes. Recognizing the household work that they have done all their lives would also give them a measure of recognition. The bill deals with and regulates the rights of women who are 65 years of age or older and receive EUR 500 or other revenue from public funds – this household allowance would be recognised. I believe that the adoption of the law would certainly help to reduce poverty among older women, especially those in the countryside, and thus enable them to live a decent autumn of their lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much. During your debate there was a change in the list of discussers, so now he has the word Jernej Vrtovec and prepare Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much. This law, proposed by New Slovenia, guarantees in particular the elements of justice. On the one hand, many debates can be heard how unworthy it is for so many and so many people to live below the poverty threshold. And then, when the political party finally comes and says, yes, we are putting in legislation that will correct these injustices – says, according to your injustices – that those who live below the threshold of poverty can enjoy a decent life, you say that it is populism. Why is this about populism? Because we want to correct the injustices that have arisen. If we correct injustices, it is about ensuring the elements of justice, not populism. We seem to have a different understanding of what populism is and what populism is not. And I'd go to statistics first. According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia there is 1. 1. 2018 lived 217 thousand 960 women aged 65 and over. According to data, the pension in Slovenia receives 200 000 467 women, out of which 65 000 579 women receive less than 500 euros. Dear Desus, this isn't about two cupcakes of ice cream at the regression; this is about the number 65 thousand 579! There's a lot of women in my neighborhood who get under 500 euros in pensions. And now that you reject our proposal, which says that all women who receive less than 500 euros of any income would be said to receive 100 euros a month's allowance, you say this is not going together. Now I really don't understand who the real fighter is for higher pensions in this country. And if you reject our proposal, then tell us what the system proposal is, representative of the government. If you refuse this thing, when you refuse, come to the speaker's desk and say, we suggest otherwise, we suggest something else. But one thing I assure you that the mandate will turn away, New Slovenia will make this law three more times, because it is good because it also eliminates injustices, and you will still say that it is not systematically regulated. So, if you're saying it's not systemically arranged, then get it done! You who are first called — if you rule — to actually rule, but not only to challenge the good solutions that the opposition is investing in here in the National Assembly. In particular, the system was dismantled in 2011 following Svetlik's proposal. In fact, see also the former system, the women who were then staying at home were housewives, had no opportunity, no conditions to pay contributions so that they could receive a well - deserved pension today. They didn't even have a chance. The system didn't see it coming. These women today receive zero euros in pensions. This must be helped, what happened to the injustice with Minister Svetlik 2011. Now tell me where justice is that someone who was a child during a child's war receives a well-deserved pension because during this war, he was called a war participant and so on. He receives a pension, he doesn't have a pension for contributions, and on the other hand, they don't have anything. Where is the guarantee of righteousness? And if we are honest, then we must guarantee, in particular, justice and what is right. In particular, people are addressing us, you know, Members of Parliament, when an individual dies a man when they become widows and have, for example, 420 euros in pensions. They have nothing left but this — because they worked their entire lives, they have a house — to sell the house. Despite the fact that the sale of the house, for example, is made, they cannot pay at home for the pensioners and for the rest of their lives. And the circumstances are extremely difficult. But we are talking about a total of 8 million euros, and on the other hand, we have stories when we have thrown some 400 million euros over our thumb in this mandate over the last three months because we bought social peace for the next period of rule, but that is not the problem. It's over. What was the proposal of New Slovenia, which we have been talking about for the last two years, regarding pensions? See, our pension system certainly needs substantial changes starting with the whole system. In New Slovenia, there is no secret, we propose a 3rd pillar pension system. The first part would talk about a universal pension, a decent pension in the form of EUR 500 for all people, says that we are talking about citizens of the Republic of Slovenia earning a certain amount, regardless of the payments and so on. This proposal, presented today by New Slovenia, is also for the correction of injustices. If we don't fix this today, then tell us what kind of systemic action the Government will start up on so that we can solve this problem in due course. I expect during today's debate, representatives, the answer: when, how. In three points: when, how and how will we deal with this in order to be financially sustainable, as you say.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Aleksander Reberšek has the word to prepare for Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. I would much rather see that we work to make pensioners have higher pensions, but not always dealing with some partial solutions, but I see that otherwise it will not work, unless there is a proposal from the government. In Slovenia, it is estimated that women with income of less than 500 euros per month are more than 83,000 – pension recipients or other public funds. Our proposal is to enable these women to live better lives with hundreds of Euros of household allowance. Maybe you know what a hundred euros means. However, I am convinced that these households or those mothers, grandmothers, know exactly what these hundred euros are and how much this would help them to spend a month. Probably none of you can imagine, because we have much bigger wages. The Government's view is that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Dear Government, what is appropriate for further consideration? When are we gonna start taking care of the weakest in this country? For those who receive the least income? Among other things, colleague Carla Urh pointed out that it was a populist action. What about raising social assistance? What about this? Let me remind you, among other things, what the President of the Government said at a meeting for the third life period, where he said: "We will never forget you because you have given much to this society and because you can give it much more. We're counting on you." Unfortunately, our pensioners can't count on us. Among other things, Marjan Šarec said that "we will visit you not only before the elections, but the entire mandate. We will listen to your problems." I think problems need to be solved. It's right to listen, but problems need to be solved. Only acts and actions are counted in life. And you have one such opportunity right now on the table to enable a better life for those who are the weakest in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much. My fellow Members – from the coalition in general! Nevertheless, it has been said that you agree with the bill and that you want a peaceful debate that will go in the direction of finding a refuge and trying to find a way to eliminate this injustice and to help these poor single women. Indeed, one of my fellow Members said that obedience to the authorities was needed for any change in this area as well. I had hoped and wished that this hearing of power would also be in at least some kind of debate between you, my fellow Members, but I note that everything announced today has been cancelled and that you do not want to have a debate in this area. And I must touch on my first experience with you coalition Members. This was, I think, in September, when we all claimed on TV that the policy in this national assembly would be different from that in the future, that it would not look at the differences between who the coalition Member is and who the opposition Member is and that you would support the good proposals. Today I have heard in my opinions that the proposal is good, that you understand the problem, and that you are also aware that there is much more to be done here in the area of single poor women, but today you remain silent and silent. At that time, I got one message, and there were more, and I'm just gonna read it. Where's the right to work 40 years for a pension? Fighters and their wives win for the rest of their lives — but I'm not thinking about them right now and I'm not denying them that right. I know that a number of pensions in the pension system are privileged and not to acknowledge that helping those who actually have nothing or very little in this country would be such a great privilege that the state would not be able to bear it. Not least, 100 euros in aid means exactly what one party advocated two or three days ago. This would raise my consumption, because it would all come back into the state budget because they would raise consumption because these people could go for a pound of sugar maybe more or 10 Doug of coffee. That's what we'd do. They would not have taken this old woman's money to what islands and tax havens, because they don't know it exists yet, but they don't have anything to do with it, but they do have something to do with it. On the part of a party, it was said that there was no one in the hall who would not – such a law, but in this way – support, and then finally say that the disadvantage is in the unequal situation of domestic work and so on. I am sure that you know deeply in your hearts that support for this law would be right and that it is still time for the first three months and that it could be completed and processed and found in some way. And you know it's right that in all the things we've solved in the last few months, getting rid of them and getting rid of them, there's also some place for these single women to be poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. Get Lyudmila Novak ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u90	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all colleagues and others in the hall! You know, with us in Prlekia, I think that not only in Prlekia, even in Slovenia as a whole, one River Women in the house of four corners keeps up three. I fully and fully agree with this, even if I look at it in my house, it looks something like this. I'm not exactly good at housework, but sometimes I do something to help, but it's based on the partner I live with. But it is true that today we are in the debate – Eva is very good at persuading all Members – we have confused the concept a little bit. One is a household allowance, and one is a pension, but we all know more or less what it is. God forbid we should say that we would personally oppose those in this society who do not have to be given. But we must look for suitable solutions that will be acceptable. The most important thing in this whole story is to tell us, here we're going to give 100 million, there we're going to take 100 million. We just have to find this solution, and when we have this solution, then I simply and simply think that there will be no major problems within the coalition. I'm not going to talk about the fiscal rule now, because someone could quickly tell me that I'm not the solution. No, I don't, in principle, object to this solution. Poverty is a problem for rural women over 65 years of age, and the problem is for all pensioners who are left alone. That's what they call living alone. We Slovenians are very attached to our place of residence, to our house, and we do not like to leave until we are forced to, our home. Of course, there are costs, usually a lot of older women, pensioners live alone and, of course, the maintenance costs of the house are great, but they prefer to give up everything else just so they can stay at home. Women's peasants play an even greater role in the whole matter. They usually work 44 according to some farm statistics, and then they also have to do household chores that are related to maintenance or assistance to the elderly if they are older than themselves, and of course also to children, grandchildren and so on. In some ways, we need to find a suitable solution for these women in the future. But we can't call it a pension. This is not a pension, but from another address, these funds can be provided to improve their living conditions. You know, I appreciate that, because in the final stage this is a very nice proposal and I also understand it and I do not condemn the proposaler. I do not condemn the proposer because it is an open question and it is like, but you know, now we are in a different position, especially us, our Group of Members, me personally. Especially because I am a proponent of ensuring a decent life for the elderly. In this case, however, I am looking for solutions, or I am thinking about where we're going to take them here. When we have this solution, then I don't think we're gonna have any more trouble not getting this thing done. I mentioned earlier in fact how much resources would be needed for this solution. I have come to some knowledge that around EUR 8 million 307 thousand 200 per month; this is said to be slightly less than 100 million per year. If I have mentioned all these open questions, I would like to conclude by saying that I come from an area where the most likely population of this kind is. You know, it's in the premier, premur region or, if you want, the porous area is actually the most agricultural households. There were and there were and there will be for a while, but unfortunately I also find that there are fewer and fewer. There are still few farmyards where there would also be room at the edge for the disposal of certain matters, because there are no more animals, and this is one very important issue that we may also have to talk about several times at this level. Yes, let us complement the matter with the possibility of providing money, and then I am happy to support it as well. As long as we don't have this solution, I'm a little distracted.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The text is by Iva Dimic, representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Thank you, Mr Jurša, colleague of Jurš, for your debate as well. I know that you are a long-standing Member and that you are also following this situation and the change of law in the National Assembly even more than I have been or have been for a long time. I believe that you know what happened and that that 2010 was a injustice for these women, and I believe that you are aware of it. Of course, it was Minister Svetlik. I'm sorry, but I'm not going to read anything now because it wasn't meant to be obvious, like your own Ozira you were in the government, and I think or I come from the fact that if I was present when some injustice was committed, then I will do even more for the elimination of this injustice myself, so that it will be removed. [[…]] Of course, it is also here on the side of you or Desus probably the potential to seek even more solutions in order to solve this problem in these elderly women. You said, "I don't condemn the proposer." I don't know why they'd judge me. I really want to help here, and this is my work in this National Assembly all the time, to warn you that there has been an injustice that needs to be done here. The question of where to take it to this side, to find a solution, seems to me to have been quite a while ago and to be looking for a solution for six, seven years in order to get rid of it, seems to me to be a little irresponsible, because the easy time is running too fast. Waiting for these matters to be settled on their own – you have found Mr Jurša, they will not resolve themselves if we do not step together and try to find a solution. Of course, you have more weight because you're in the government and you're looking for these solutions more easily than we are. You just found out that these women are getting smaller and fewer and fewer, which means that all of this concern that you expressed in your views was that this division of work, equality in the household between men and women. This concern for women, who will have fewer and fewer, is getting smaller, as these women are virtually very few remaining on farms. Of course, it is now possible for them to be insured, whether the farmer is insured, or have a complementary activity or even a trade. This option, of course, allows the farm or the countryside, but I am talking about those who did not have these options in the past regime that we had, so I am speaking. It seems to me that we would end these injustices, that money is money, because there must always be money for a man.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has Ludmila Novak to prepare Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u94	When I listened to my colleague Jurša, I could only agree almost to the end. True, you know how people live in the countryside. I have to say for myself that tears come into my eyes when I think of individual cases. How many times have people spoken to me at different meetings, usually women who say, do something for us? I'd like to give my grandkids something for Miklavž, but I don't have where to get it from. Then my husband tells me, my wife is sick, I couldn't protect her because we had a farm, now she has nothing to give to someone who helps her every day while she's lying on the bed. So, such sad stories, but these women didn't get lazy in life, they did, they worked hard. If I only remember how many of these midwives have reduced the number of sick leave due to children's disease. Today, this is a chance to put children in kindergarten, and you know if the child is sick, sneezes, coughs, must stay at home and the mother or daddy must stay on sick leave. How many times do such midwives solve these family problems, how many patients are saved on this account? I had a mother-in-law, a father-in-law who didn't even have kids in kindergarten, and because of the kids, I was once in hospital because of the kids, because I didn't have to. In addition to caring for the elderly, they are nurses, they are educators, they are teachers, they are cleaners, they are cooks. In addition to the second part, especially on the farm, there are fields and so on and now there is not even any change to fool your grandson. I've heard so many sad stories like that and it hurts. However, when we wanted to reduce the amount of privileged pensions that were above 500 euros, there was a cry and a cry of injustice — yes, unfortunately, that was the case. So let's also give these women the 100 euros because we didn't make it up, and despite the fact that a colleague from the Left protested that we were sharing society with women and men. This is because statistics show that women are doing more household work, and we have a longer life work, which we cannot complain about, but the fact is that we are also doing more than that. That's what the statistics show. And that we're even less paid, they're less paid for the same job. Fortunately in Slovenia less than in many other developed countries, however. And how many women did Mommy stay at home because it was for the family, for the children, for all the better that they stayed home and cared for the family. In the past, however, when so many jobs and so many security options were not available. I think it's far more dignified and dignified if someone gets 100 euros from the past job than 100 euros from social assistance. Because you know that you've been working to deserve your work somewhere to be taken into account that it's appreciated, so she's got 100 euros in it, not because it's charity from the state. And when Comrade Jurš asked where to take it, of course, we are in a different position when we are in opposition and rejecting all our well-intentioned proposals, as are those double pensioners' status, so that we can earn something else along with it, and you have also rejected it. Where to take it? Yeah, we watched last week's show about TES 6, where we saw how much was stolen. That's all! We get some of this back, and so some people are provided for life, even though they're going to pay some kind of penalty, and they're going to pay back the gold bars, and yet millions of them are stacked up somewhere, and that's what they know. Let's look for this and take it back, and those credits that were given to the pretty eyes – we invested 4 billion in banks. That is why it is difficult for me to listen when some people talk about the social state, how we provide social assistance – it would not be necessary for a decent pension, a real pension, a real family policy, to require such social assistance. It is our will to show that we appreciate the work of women, not those who can still work, but those who have done much, so it is very bad or nothing paid. That's why I'm inviting you to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Jursha has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u96	Mrs. Ludmila, we probably didn't get along. I strictly want to define the item in the budget, where this will be written down and where we will take it. We said we didn't have to mix the pensions and the household allowance, and it's only logical that we wouldn't take it from the pension register, so we'll take it somewhere else. I fully agree with you that a lot of money or money has been wasted in certain things. Do you remember what Mr Erjavec said in the past, and today some are exploiting and disinformationing the public? He said: “If the tycoons have stolen so much, that means that the pensioners could have a minimum of 1,000 euros in pension.”
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u98	I propose that we read the law again, because Article 5 states that the funds for the financing of the household allowance are provided in the state budget and not in the pension allowance.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. But I don't think that was very procedural. Okay, I suggest we move on. Joseph Lenart has the word to prepare Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Welcome guests from the Ministry, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members! I've never claimed that everything is wrong in this country. I believe there's something good about it, because I'm a positive person myself, but I've met and met older people in the field who are in real trouble. There are also many very poor older women who live alone. These are the facts. And the statistics themselves tell their own. In Slovenia we are not too kind to our pensioners. There is a lot of talk about whether we are a just and social state, and more talk should be about whether our social sense and our social emotional intelligence are high enough to be able to listen and help. I think there are a lot of Members in this Chamber with a strong social sense, but I often notice that they can show it outside, but not always in here. I also admire the proposal of New Slovenia to support the weak. So how do our mothers and grandmothers live and survive when they're alone? You know what they're gonna tell us? You are full of mouths, while we hardly walk from day to day and from month to month, but some will simply be quiet and will suffer in loneliness, for one is certain. Because they have been brought up with modesty, they will also be modestly raised. And if you don't honestly ask them how they live, they won't tell you. Maybe their friends or relatives will tell you. True, some in their gardens around a hundred - year - old house are still producing something in the garden, and as a result our countryside is full of them. Somehow, I'll say, we're all aware that it started happening in Lendava, in Prekmurje, even in Goriček and around that almost every third house has been abandoned. So let's do something to make our countryside nice, so the houses won't be empty. This country is not so bad at all, and not so poor and the life of all of us could be easier and better if we could only be more equitable in the allocation of available resources and in certain areas of state property more cost-effective. Maybe just like our grandparents knew. Support for the proposal of the Home Supplement Law could be one of the good, just steps that we can make as Members of our people in favour of the weakest part of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant. Get Robert Pavšič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much. You know, when we talk about the weakest, especially when we talk about the oldest pensioners in our country who are really among those most at risk of poverty, I don't think we should talk about where we're going to get it, but then we need to talk about taking it somewhere. We have 54,000 of these pensions, which means those who have a pension lower than the poverty risk threshold. Why did they find themselves in such a situation? Today we have also opened up the topic of a more even distribution of the management of domestic works, according to household works. And yes, that's one of the reasons why these ladies would, of course, deserve a little more age. Today, information has already been given on how women work 42 hours a week and men 28 hours a week, but research by the OECD has shown that Slovenia is, in fact, among those countries where these differences are least; it is said to be even greater in other countries. Women also have lower pensions because they had lower salaries during their active years, they also have lower pensions because they have not been employed in the past for a full-time period and have worked fewer years than required, and because we have women in Slovenia on average for a longer life. So we survive our husbands and stay alone, and this one-member household is the one that risks the most in poverty. But what we said today: the purpose of New Slovenia is certainly good. However, if we read the law once again, as colleagues from New Slovenia themselves sent us to read it and read it. I don't know how you read it, but I read it so that you actually exclude by this Article 4 of your law from receiving a household allowance all those who could possibly apply for financial social assistance or a protective allowance. So if colleague Iva is talking about a woman receiving 247 euros in pension, it is now considered that this lady can apply for a protective allowance. In fact, the information we have obtained from members of the coalition from the Ministry of Labour is that in the last year there are only 29 pensioners who do not reach €392 who do not have the right to apply for a protective allowance for any reason. So today, this lady with 247 euros can apply for a protective allowance and will receive a total of EUR 577. If she asks for this protective supplement, she will not be entitled to a household allowance on your proposal. So if she wants to receive – let's do an analogy – if she wants to receive your household allowance, she must not apply for a protective supplement. So together she will receive, instead of 577, as she receives today, 347. This essentially saves the state budget with your proposal. I read it like that, and you fix me if I'm wrong, but that's what you do. Someone who today has EUR 501 pension can apply for a protective allowance and get a difference of up to EUR 577 which, according to your proposal, will not be entitled to a household allowance or a protective allowance. That is to say, you are actually making this proposal worse the situation in which older pensioners are located. I really hope that I read it wrong, but I don't think that because I've read it so many times now and I've gone to count every thing out that I don't know now I don't believe that you're deliberately deceiving that your purpose is really good, as we said today, but you're actually not contributing with this proposal to make this pension better. [[…]] I also find it very difficult to imagine that we would like to cover such a diverse issue that we have discussed today, which is not only the result of uneven division of household work, but that we can correct it in nine articles. So the path that is right for these elderly ladies is an increase in the guaranteed pension, is an increase in the widow's allowance, as we have foreseen in our coalition contract. I firmly believe we're going to make this happen. Otherwise, there's something else I'd like to point out. Despite everything we have said today, Slovenia is now in fifth place among all the countries of the European Union by social justice; before Germany and before Austria.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u104	Dear present today at the sitting and esteemed colleague Janja Slug! You've been recalculating SMC for four years. You're like my navigation: I'm calculating, I'm calculating, I'm calculating every change. People don't have time to wait for the reckoning to be over, because any social situation, pressures, changes in the law is causing a new recalculation. People don't depend on numbers, people depend on income, on the benefits we get! And to say what kind of situation will the lady who will ask – in Article 7 – on her own initiative to grant a household allowance, and in what situation, it seems to me that it is extremely inappropriate to say how much she can get, because we know how much she is receiving. Who are these women, who goes to these women, where they live? What kind of mayor can visit them, but I can also say some people from social work centres, because they are very different in Slovenia. But the current system you've set up, I don't know if it's the system we want to have, that you have to go to three social work centres for some right to figure out which social work centre is responsible for the calculation. It seems to me that talking about what everything is now, and people don't have it, is extremely inappropriate. First, the injustices must be removed and put into its original state. And to say that the protective supplement was one of the best plots in the period of independent Slovenia, I find it extremely inappropriate because we know what kind of tribulation it caused, with seals and so on. People are afraid of him now. [[advertising from the hall]] Then go to the field and tell them that this is over, not that people are still afraid of him because he has caused such terrible distress. One more thing, boasting that you have arranged widow's pensions in a coalition contract — in what way? From 16 to 20 or 25-dose coefficient, the difference between husband and wife's pension or between pension partners, I find it extremely inappropriate, from 20 to 23 euros in the difference of 200 euros, which means that the wife has 500 euros in pension and the husband has 700. I expected when I heard the first responses about how you would regulate widow's pensions, that they would go according to the pattern known by the countries we say they are, but also by migrants, that they are social states; Germany, where the partner by the deceased partner gets not 60 per cent of the dose ratio between the difference from the pension, but from the pension. Do you know what 60 per cent of the 700 euro pension a Slovenian citizen or a Slovenian widow would have after a deceased partner? 420 Euros extra! That's the difference. And we should be bold if we want to do some justice in widow's pensions, not for 3 euros or 10, 15 at the most, but for 60 percent, like other countries, the dosage coefficient or the difference. This is a difference that is worth talking about in the National Assembly in this country if we really want to do something about widow's pensions, which are actually increasing, widow's pensions are getting more and more, not less. If we want to guarantee some social justice, a social state, if we want to guarantee the rights arising from the payments – I am talking about widow's pensions, which means that that pensioner has paid into the pension register – it seems to me that if they lived together, he has a little more than the extra 13 euros in this title. Because if we lived together, this pension would be a little better, a little higher. However, let me read for myself how Article 5 goes: “The household allowance is set at EUR 100 per month. [[…]] The funding of the household allowance shall be provided in the State budget. The household allowance shall be coordinated in accordance with the law governing the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia.” Article 6 – Application of the law governing the general administrative procedure. “In the exercise of the right from the household allowance, the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure shall apply, unless certain matters are otherwise dealt with in this law. The application, decisions and appeals in procedures for the exercise of the right under this law shall be free of charge.” “The procedure for exercising the right to a household allowance shall be initiated at the request of the beneficiary. The right to a household allowance shall be decided by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. The beneficiary shall submit a written application for the right to a household allowance to any unit of the institution. The application shall include the name and surname of the beneficiary, the EMSO, the address of the place of residence, the date of deposit and the signature of the beneficiary. The decision on the right to a household allowance shall be issued by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. The appeal against the decision referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be decided by the Ministry responsible for the work.” I can keep reading, but if you do anything else, I still have time as a proponent, but I will read some other article of the law, because the law is short and clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Gradually, Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe that you will find yourself in my procedural capacity, given that you have repeatedly, in the past term, made a request through procedural requirements to have the applicant answer you a question. I asked the applicant why you actually take the right of older pensioners to receive a protective allowance if they want to receive your 100 euro fights. Now that they have applied for a protective allowance, they will receive a total of 577 and, if they do not apply for a protective allowance, they will be entitled to the household allowance that you anticipate and then receive a total of 347. This is an essential issue which will make it easier for Members to discuss the content of your proposal. I would really like to, because in your performance, you've talked about everything else, just not what I asked you. If I read this law correctly, then at this point someone receives a protective allowance of up to 577 but then does not belong to him in the household; and only if he cancels the ward can he get a household allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs Slug, this was a replica, not a procedural proposal. I suggest that you also learn in the future and address the procedural proposal properly. And now, Mrs Iva Dimic, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u108	Lady Servant, it's a delusion. The law is perfectly clear, each one decides if he wants it, to some extent, to some extent, and each one — individually here — can take care of his or her existence under our law in one way or another. If he doesn't want it, if there's a higher allowance with a protective supplement, I think he's fine, and everyone's gonna figure out what's paying him. I think we need to give this opportunity to every individual to make a decision. We didn't tell him to get automatic and then his other social transfers went down. Everyone decides individually. However, we must, of course, have every right in this country to be able to decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I propose to avoid further problems where it is not possible for Members to have the Government sign up for the word as well. You have half an hour at your disposal and I would like to ask that the Government also make a comment on the proposals. Of course, if he wants to. Otherwise, Mr Robert Pavšič now has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. I have to breathe a little, because this debate is getting very emotional. Why? We constantly listen to similar reasoning and murmuring, today also aggressive tone, denial of arguments. I don't think it's fair because in the opposition you come from an emotional position. I'm not looking for reasons or looking for excuses, I'm looking for reasons. There is a big difference – the reason is a very big difference between these two words. And when we talk about discrimination and dignity, it's not a shame to be poor, but shame is for the country if it has poor people, and that's true and that's a systemic problem. Today we are witnessing, like some of the meetings that have been held so far, the whole flood of the proposals you like, which are actually putting pressure on a part of Parliament. I don't think it's fair that you take advantage of people's hardships and knock on our conscience at times, even insulting. Why do we have to draw something? Do you think we don't understand or do you think you'd be worse because you're home from the countryside? Far from it. Yes, collective responsibility and, above all, solidarity is necessary, but if we are talking about populism, let us look at a series of laws that follow only today – the household allowance that we are currently considering, parental protection, the Law on Kindergarten, the Law on Wine, the Law on Fire, the Law on Income, I think it is perfectly clear and there are purposes and reasons. And not to us, please, to report non-sociality or not to find a solution. After the new year, after six years, all budgetary or all austerity measures for the family, social policy from the ZUJF, will be abolished. In this way we will again have a full paternity and parental allowance, an allowance for large families, child allowances, scholarships, pensions, annual allowances, plus minimum wages and social assistance. This is that comprehensive review and integrated action that we are advocating on this page. No one is saying that your marriage will not be implemented in the following year, but at this point it is not possible and you are aware of it – I hope you are aware – because it would have too much and unpredictable consequences. 30 years ago, politics in this building, or the hall was still a little different, began to promise another Switzerland. Where we are today, we see for ourselves. And who's to blame? This facility, this whole system, it's my fault, too, always more so with every day I'm in here, I'm more guilty and more responsible. So please don't be banal and trivial, it's not fair to us here. Because we're going to say no, now we don't respect poor rural women! No! No! I have great sympathy for them, perhaps even some help if I can but give them such weight and such responsibility is not fair, let us be realistic. It's about sustainability and abstinence. Poverty is a general problem, as we have heard last time, it is also an anti-constitutional poverty, and no one has triggered it here yet, and it is a systemic problem, so it must also be systematically solved. And not only for the poor elderly, but also for the poor employees, for the poor unemployed, for the children; for all those who by our actions, by our looking and by our commenting, we are pushing on the edge of society. And then I have to be the politician of the bad guy! I do not accept this – with all due respect to each individual in this country, to you, but especially to myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. As the final debater, the MEP has the word mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u112	Dear Members, Members, good afternoon! Statistics show that 83,000 Slovenian women are less than €500 per month, and these women are usually over 65. You will most likely recall very well the action taken by our government in 2004-2008, referred to it as a state pension or a country pension when some ten euros were given to citizens who did not have properly regulated pensions. That's when Svetlik took these peasants' pensions, and that's the pain of talking to them today. Today we have brought before you the Law on the Family Supplement, which is not a pension, as some of you have pointed out today, but is a household allowance for what women have done in the past in their lives, and it is only right that they are also in some way valued and that we recognize this as a society. In general, women over 65 years of age who have less income from pensions and other social transfers than EUR 500 and who have been in Slovenia for 30 years would be entitled to this household allowance. These are basic solutions to help such women with at least 100 euros per month of household allowance to make life easier for what they have done in the past. Some of you who were concerned that this would be the burden of the pension allowance should remind you that Article 5 states that these funds are provided in the state budget. You must be consistent here. In the past, I recall that you were not the most thrilled to have some of the things that are paid out of the pension register cleared of pension contributions, but some of the credits that this country has recognised. It just needs to be consistent here. Where to take this money has been repeatedly exposed today. I see that this money can be taken from investment in the second track, which is overblown, and another possibility is – Hungary's participation as a co-investor in this second track, because they offer us 200 million euros and we say we do not need it to provide it ourselves. This is a concrete way to get this money, which we propose to devote to women who have less than 500 euros in Slovenia in order to get it in the form of a household allowance of 100 euros. What Member Servant has brought is truly incredible, then the coalition has no difficulty in adopting this law, if even this law is more budget-friendly than the present solution, then they can do so. Otherwise, I would point out that this law also applies to women who are without a pension, who are completely without a pension, and who are without any income. These, too, could be applied by our household allowance. However, those who fear that they would be worse off than you say have the opportunity to make a decision because it is written in the law that they may, at their request, apply for this household allowance or not. And even if we're fair or not fair. See, where's the dialogue, where's the cooperation you've been talking about? When you propose social things on your left, it's oh and even great, when it comes from New Slovenia, it's always demagogy. Be honest and be consistent all the time. [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. A representative of the Government, State Secretary Breda Božnik, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! With regard to the basic views already presented that the proposal for a household additive law is not suitable for further consideration, the Government is essentially further clarifying the following. A single person who is socially at risk has social security in the social protection system. With regard to the allegations of social threats raised in the debate, I would like to stress that social threats or that social threats have been addressed and, in fact, resolved comprehensively by the adoption of the last two novels of the Social Security Benefits Act. The novelties raised the basic amount of the minimum income to 392,75 euros. A single woman over 65 who receives a pension of EUR 300, for example, can receive a cash social assistance amounting to 92.75 euros and a security allowance of EUR 184.59. In addition to a 300-euro pension, the social security system also receives 277,34 euros and its total income is 577,34 euros. At this point, I would like to point out that the amounts of financial social assistance and the social security allowance received under the amended social legislation have ceased to be recovered since 2017, as had been previously exposed. Furthermore, the Government emphasises that the proposal does not guarantee equality before the law or more favourable treatment of women in pension insurance. As the Government has already explained, measures to improve the social situation of pensioners are also envisaged in the future. With regard to the proposal to decide on the application for a household allowance at the first stage of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, the Government explains: The Pension and Disability Insurance Institute is a public institution and is a institution and an operator of compulsory pension and disability insurance. The recognition of the right to a household allowance is not related to prior insurance, but rather to the poor social status of older women and the evaluation of their household work and therefore it is not in any way a right from insurance, but a right which has a social security nature, so the decision of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance as a decision-making body at the first stage is absolutely inappropriate. With regard to the financial implications of the law, the Government explains: The adoption of the law would mean the taking over of new commitments of €78.7 million to €99.7 million under the State budget and the funds are not yet secured, and the proposal of the law is also inappropriate and is not suitable for further consideration from a public financial point of view. With regard to the allegations that the law is correcting the wrongs of women who have stayed at home and who have not held back, we explain. In 2000, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act established a state pension for women and men who did not meet the conditions for retirement. In 2012, there was a cleansing of the pension allowance, which excluded non-contributory duties. This content has been transferred to the ZUPJS, i.e. the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, as a form of social transfer, to which are also eligible men and women who are socially at risk. The proposalr's law means returning back to 2000, which limits beneficiaries to women and singles only, thereby creating gender inequality and inequality in relation to the situation. With regard to the reorganisation of social work centres mentioned above, as pointed out by Mrs Iva Dimic, I would like to point out that in the autumn times, social work centres receive a much greater impact each year on rights from public funds. It is the fall time, we all know that then the school year begins, the new school year begins with September, and then the role of extraordinary cash social assistance in the field of chicken is also launched. This is a huge problem and the staff at the centres must also resolve these issues and these additional roles. This means that each year work needs to be organised in a way that makes a quick decision about roles. This year, the Ministry actively involved itself in order to determine the additional payment. In October, an additional payment of the State grant will be made in December, due to the failure of the Furs information system, for which it was not possible to decide on the rights of public funds, an additional payment of the cash social assistance, in addition to the regular payment on 20 December, will be made on 21 December. The Ministry's responding. As regards delays in the resolution of applications at social work centres, I must also say that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is very aware of the current situation in this regard, and we are very careful to monitor the way in which these applications are addressed and the dynamics of dealing with them. In doing so, it should be pointed out that at most social work centres there are no delays in the resolution of applications, this is what happened at the centre in Ljubljana. And it should be noted that it is one of the largest centres in the country, with the highest number of users, i.e. customers. Perhaps I would also like to explain this: the roles that await some social work centres are not the roles that would be unresolved due to the failure of systems or, for example, the failure of professional workers at centres that actually resolve these applications and turn them into decisions. These are the roles that the parties are waiting for, and this is an important fact that we have not actually talked about today. On this occasion, by Mrs Iva Dimic, I explain that the application submitted by the father was resolved within the time limit and that there was no actual delay of the body; we have examined the matter. So much for the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. As last said, the representative of the proposer, Ambassador Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answers, Secretary of State. I'm happy, well – I'll start from the back – to talk about the same party practically, which actually complained that you got it. I'm sure I'll try to make personal contact with them, see what the problem is, because I can imagine what it means for a family to fail to do so. You said you didn't record any backlogs of applications waiting for a customer supplement. Now I'm going to say, as a social work centre user, where I can put in applications that I don't know the social work centre that would wait for a customer supplement. They practically don't take you away, even if you bring your entire family a month before your application for a scholarship, and I almost don't believe that we would be waiting at the social work centres to complete the application by the party, because it's simply not done and you have to do the whole process again. This is where it actually gets stuck – you have correctly estimated – the problems are always September, at the beginning of the school year, at the beginning of the year, when children go back to the largest number of kindergartens and so on. But the former Minister has provided for a measure that we, or which you, have abolished in this term, has been terminated in these months, and this is an informational calculation that has been abolished. Just because the centres for social work were not so burdened, an information calculation was envisaged in the framework of all changes in social work centres, which did not happen. And then there's something quick, well, I see my time is running out. You've given a very detailed description of what a single woman can get. However, in the case of a protective additive, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Time's up. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Because it's an interest, we're just going to start the application procedure. Just a warning. If you would also like to discuss the representative of proposalant Iva Dimic and representative of the Government, please sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each of the applicants gets five minutes. First of all, he gets the word of a Member of Parliament, Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u118	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. This is my last call at this point. Perhaps to begin with the comment of the debate by Mr Robert Pavšić, who somehow points out to the opposition that he is investing – what already? – populist suggestions and I don't know what else. I would just like to ask that Mr Robert Pavšč, or LMŠ, or perhaps the entire coalition, allow us at least a small freedom to allow those who are just as elected as he is to do what people are ordering us to do. If we can't make laws, then what should we do? Should we follow the government's solutions blindly? Yeah, what if they're not there? There's no such thing as solutions. Now you're asking us all kinds of questions about where to take it. Yes, in the state budget! We didn't ask you where you were going to be 308 million. So these are really maybe, I'm giving leave, some initial problems, but we're the legislative branch of power, and here we are 90, I hope they're equivalent; I hope they're equivalent and equally free. I repeat that we have read a lot of professional literature before we have written these solutions in our electoral programme. You remember that book, 300 pages. We note, therefore, experts, not politicians, that the gap in the risk of gender poverty is to increase with age, this gap, that is to say, the risk of gender poverty is increasing with age. Slovenia notes a significantly higher level of poverty risk in women compared to EU countries comparable to Slovenia in terms of the overall level of poverty risk. That's why we said the household allowance, so we said women over 65. But to write in my marriages solutions to make these women worse — not to make a fool of us! Don't be a fool, please. In particular, large differences occur at the age of 75 years. And what is the conclusion of this article or discussion? The conclusion is as follows: "In Slovenia, the problem of the high risk of poverty in older women has failed because we do not implement specific measures to reduce the rate of poverty of the population and to reduce differences between men and women". All right, this law will be rejected tomorrow, I understand. You promised in the debates that you would be able to deal with these problems, which you say are relevant and worth paying attention to, that you would take full responsibility for these problems. We will be waiting for you until the first parliamentary holiday next half. This apparatus, which the Government has, must be able to produce quality solutions. You have, and you'll have more secretary of state, so they have to do something. And not only Secretary of State, but this whole machine in the ministries. I believe they're working, but if they see problems, then problems need to be solved. So, we'll be waiting for you for a good six months, then we'll come back with this marriage. That is what we promise you, dear colleagues, and we also promise these women over 65 years of age. And that is what we promise those 346,000 people who live below the threshold of poverty and are socially excluded. It is time to set the social state on fire to set the social state on fire in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word has been sent by Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I must first say that the point of my debate – I know you have not listened to it to the end, Comrade Tonin. But if you did, you would see that my point was not that the state budget would now be better, but that your solution was less money, because these women would actually receive less money on the basis of your proposal. That was my point. I believe you didn't want to do this to make your intentions different. I'm sure of it. But I believe that you missed this; that you gave us something on the table that was not studied in detail. I hope that when we get a similar proposal in six months, as you have just announced, not the same, that this will be corrected because I believe you have missed it a little. As the Secretary of State said today that women with low pensions today can apply for financial social assistance and get more than they would get with your household allowance, and they can also apply for a security allowance and get more under the line than they get with your household allowance. In fact, your household allowance would only give more to those pensioners who today have pensions between 478 and 499 euros. You'd only be better off if you didn't apply for a security supplement, but you'd get a household allowance and you'd be 100 euros, yours, actually, for the better. Just you. This is from 478 and 499; which is more, they do not have the right to a household allowance, and what is less, they get less with the household allowance than they would have received or are already getting today, when they have the right to financial social assistance or the difference of up to EUR 577, which is the security allowance. And there's another difference. The protection allowance for women at this time belongs from the age of 63 onwards, while, according to your proposal, they would not be eligible until the age of 65. First of all, it's been cut here for two years. And that's where the difference comes in. But there's one more thing I'd like to point out. Here you assume that the procedure for granting a household allowance begins at the request of the beneficiary. We know what your discussions were like the last time we didn't decide to just introduce an automatic mass IT calculation, because the information system isn't ready yet, but we're staying on the IT calculation, so there's no mistake. We have not abolished the IT calculation for the last time, because it is still right for both employees and beneficiaries. But now we're actually talking about women over 65 years of age, and if you read some scientific articles, even in fact, your case applies even to women over 75 years of age, because they are the most at risk. And now, at the age of 75, we are going to ask one lady to apply for this household allowance herself, and at the moment, she is already receiving on the basis of an informational calculation where there is no need to do anything, money social assistance or a protective allowance can. In fact, what we now have on the table is actually a step back. So I appeal to you again, even if you invest again in six months, read again what you sent us to the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. And in the end, she gets the word of a representative of the proposer, Ambassador Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Of course, the coalition has more accurate data to facilitate its operation. Of course, I am glad that I received more information today than I was able to obtain. And because they have such good information because they have co-workers and the ability of people, I am counting on it to be like my colleague Robert, who is not here, that maybe the government will come up with a solution on its own. These solutions would be very happy for the government to prepare a solution within six months and come to the tables, so that it would not then, I will say, hunt the opposition party on bars and spikes, accurate calculations. Because they have access to these bases different from us, different from me. What I can access is to ask for a month in advance, or to order a research assignment, or what I can find online, online. It is therefore also the tendency of the opposition, as well as the introduction of laws, to point out what the coalition must do and the coalition MPs, because they have a greater opportunity and the larger State apparatus is practically in their hands, which can grind and inspect and work. [[…]] Dear Secretary of State, I have written down how these state aids, or social security transfers and, of course, a protective allowance, are being followed. Finally, you said that a woman with 300 euros of pension could get 577,34 euros. I know you don't have time, but you can also tell me how many of these women in Slovenia, who are like this, in this way all the protective supplements are added to them. If there's 8,000 of them, I can say congratulations and I'm happy. I'm afraid this number is lower. You have this number, I don't have this number – will you teach me where I can find this number myself? I'll be very happy. It seems to me that with the security supplement everything is nice and right, from what year and so on, but you know how many bets. I can send you how many deposits we got when the security supplement was no longer filling on the property. But you know, the hell with the little things. All the women said, but now we're going to put in a protective supplement, they were going to the parliamentary group, they're coming to the Parliamentary Group, they're coming to the National Assembly, put this in for us. But do you know what the answer was? Yes, of course, ma'am, you're not alone, you have two more sons to support. And she said: “Is this a protective supplement for you that my children have to support me in addition to that?Oh, my God! That I am not for the country as I am for the country, and I live alone?” That's what's on the security supplement. That's why I want you to see what this number is like for these women who are actually getting a protective supplement. It may be true that we will not last hold any meetings of the National Assembly in this way, but we will look at how the numbers have changed in the last year, or, if there is any new study of this institution, at the Institute for Social Protection in Slovenia. There may be some new research, but we'll get it to the table, and we'll see what the effects of this change have been. And an information calculation – we all want it. I am confident that it will enable employees to work both at social work centres and at ministries. But our purpose was to correct the injustices, correct the injustices that had been committed, and even if we went back to 2000, then it was and could be said that there was a social state that allowed those without income some income and recognized the past work, caring for home, family, homeland.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday, 19 December 2018 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on the protection of the elderly and of the family. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Horvat. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Horvat requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mrs Ivi Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u124	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, Colleagues and Colleagues! In order to improve the economic situation, past governments are releasing a number of austerity measures while at the same time increasing budgetary expenditure in a number of areas. Let me mention only the increase in public sector salaries, the mass of wages, the increase in the minimum pension for full pension periods without totality and the increase in the minimum wage. While these are welcome measures, we have already repeatedly pointed out in Novi Slovenija that the release of austerity measures should start with families, and this is a number of reasons. The demographic picture of Slovenia is extremely poor, one of the worst in the European Union. This is what the Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development also draws our attention to. For the normal functioning of the country or all of its subsystems, it would take about 30,000 births per year over the coming years, but we are currently not reaching the number of 20,000, and the trend is unfortunately declining. The extremely low fertility and consequent ageing of the population are, according to the European Commission, one of the biggest social and economic challenges of Europe of the 21st century, affecting all Member States and most of the policy areas of the European Union. In 2025, more than 20% of the European population will be 65 years of age or older, and in particular the number of elderly people in the 80-year-old group will increase. The coalition and its government seem to be unaware of that. Therefore, in New Slovenia, this amendment of the law proposes three essential solutions. For the first time, the re-introduction of universal assistance at the birth of a child in the form of a remittance and an appropriate correction of EUR 500. Secondly, an increase in the amount of the allowance for a large family, for a family with three children of €450 and for a family with four or more €650. The solutions proposed follow the principles of family protection, maternity, paternity, children and youth and the principle of best child benefit, the principle of long-term sustainability of the pension system and fair distribution of goods. The main objectives and objectives of our proposal are: to enable families to optimize their family budgets and the corresponding socio-economic situation, to ensure a fairer distribution of public finances, to encourage domestic consumption, to help parents to better coordinate family and professional life and, consequently, to decide for which child more – to improve the demographic picture of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sincerely asking you to respond to these proposals and to allow families to live a slightly better life. I invite you to support our proposal for a novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. For the opening presentation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Breda Boznik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thanks again for saying that. On 13 November 2018, the Group of Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Jožet Horvat, tabled a proposal for a law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, proposing a single increase in the level of individual rights. The need for the adoption of the law is based in particular on demographic trends, where we agree that action is necessary, but we need to implement measures in a coordinated and comprehensive manner, in line with the strategic documents adopted, namely the Resolution on Family Policy 2018-2028 "All Family-friendly Society" and the Long-Term Society Strategy. In its proposed opinion, the Government states that concrete steps have been taken in 2018 and 2019 to improve the quality of life of families, in particular their material situation. With a view to meeting the requirements of the law, the last family austerity measures will be released in 2019, requiring additional funding of €35 million. The financial implications of the proposed law, the applicant describes or assesses 75 million but does not explain how the financial consequences have been calculated. The proposed increase in the amount of aid for the birth of a child and the right to an allowance for a large family would therefore have significant financial implications and thus have an impact on the achievement of the medium-term public financial objective and on compliance with the Fiscal Rule Act. It is important for Slovenia to create sufficient potential in favourable times and insist on the road map so that the structural balance of the sector will be balanced by the end of 2020 when we reach our medium-term objective. Because of this proposal, the Government does not support the proposal at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Bosniak Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u128	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Say good-bye to everyone again! In Levi, we do not agree that more than 10,000 children must be born each year for the normal functioning of a woman's country than the proposal states to NSI. A proper, fair and sustainable tax policy is necessary for the normal functioning of the country, which can also result in an increase in birthrates. In NSIs, they consistently advocate lower taxes and contributions and, on the other hand, propose increased transfers to families. I'm afraid these two aren't going together. They propose a reduction in value added tax, a reduction in the rate for the highest income class, is against higher capital taxation, and I ask you how we will increase family transfers by poverty of state treasury. And it's universal to all families, not to those who actually need it. The main problem of this proposal, in addition to non-compliance with NSI policies at the income level, is its anchor in the naturalistic policy. Family policy means family policy without social criteria. It means that all, including the poor, subsidize both poor and wealthy families. So those who need help and those who do not need it, regardless of their income and regardless of their needs. This, at least as long as we have, according to official data, 50,000 children living below the poverty line, is not and cannot be a priority for this National Assembly. As long as 270 000 people live below the risk of poverty, of which 56,000 are active workers and 50,000 children, family policy must remain part of social policy; that is, a policy that deals primarily with social inequality, with poverty that kills many families and the social situation of children who represent a particularly vulnerable population. The role of family policy is not to ensure the future labour force of capital, but to ensure that children, including those born in socially disadvantaged families, are as equal as possible, to enable children to be able to have children who, by their own income alone, do not need to be maintained or should not be reached by natural means. That, above all, women who do not want to have a child are also allowed to do so and that their decisions do not give rise to social pressure or other retaliatory measures. The only effective measure to strengthen the working population is to stop emigration by improving the living conditions of the younger generation in particular, who are evicting from the country due to poor conditions. Social measures are therefore key in various areas, in the area of poverty, in the fight against punitive forms of work and in the area of housing policy, as far as I am concerned. The answer is not in the exploitation of the family policy to subsidise the population with over-average and even high incomes with the aim of increasing births. Such measures will not achieve their objective, but will have another consequence: we will leave the most socially vulnerable people at risk. The task of the State is not to subsidise the most prosperous families, but to provide at least approximately equal opportunities for all children, so as long as we do not eradicate poverty, we will advocate in Levica the primacy of social family policy over a policy whose essential objective is not to improve unequal positions, but to increase births. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, for her mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u130	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Demographic trends are unforgivable for Slovenia, whether you like it or not. This is not about opposition findings; it is about the findings of international institutions that put Slovenia in ninth place after we are a very old society. And negative demographic trends, of course, mean a lot of pressure over the long run, they mean pressure on the health treasury, they put pressure on the pension fund, and in the end, it is also important for the long-term survival of the nation as such. If we want to face negative demographic trends, then the key thing that each country has to do is encourage its citizens to decide for more lives, for more children. There is no particular quantum physics or science fiction here, but there are verified facts. Through the promotion of births, countries are engaged in different ways, from country to country. However, the fact is that various Slovenian studies show that young people do not choose to have more children or that it is important to decide on the number of children and whether children will even have three key factors. For the first time, do they have a job to support their family? Second of all, do they have a housing problem that they can live with their family anywhere? And the third time, even in what values, in what spirit they were raised. These are the three key elements which Slovenian research identifies as important criteria when young people decide for children. I am convinced that, as a country, we are obliged to do everything we can to remove at least those obstacles that we have an impact on. The country has a smaller impact on values. With values we grow in families and in our home environment, we are raised in this or in that direction; whether we favor a larger number of children or not. Certainly, however, the country can make an important contribution to making young people better at work and to making it easier for young people to access their homes. Of course, the material situation of families is important. Of course, a key country is to improve the material situation of families. In New Slovenia, we are committed to a clear division of family and social policy and we are against the fact that these two policies are intertwined. The essence of social policy is to help those who are in need to help those who are in distress, to help those who cannot help themselves and live in difficult circumstances, to help and thus alleviate their problems through social transfers. But it's a social policy. On the other hand, we have elements of family policy, which we claim in New Slovenia should respect one principle that every child is important and equally respected for the country, regardless of in which and in which family he is born. Therefore, in terms of family policy, the country's approach to all children should be the same and family policy transfers should all be the same. In the proposed amendment to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, we propose the following key corrections and elements: to raise assistance at the birth of a child to EUR 500 and to make money transfers where parents have free access to how this money will be spent on purpose. The state is now needlessly involved in trying to put in place some specific systems where parents could buy certain products in precisely certain stores because they say that they should ensure purposefulness. Believe me, I speak from my own experience that this money is definitely spent on purpose by parents; it is used for children and there is no need for the state to continue in this way and in what way. Another important correction brought by this law is that large families with three or more children should be provided with an allowance of €450 for a large family. So we can increase it from the current height. Also by increasing the allowance for a large family from four or more children to 650 euros. The first people who are likely to jump into the air are in Levica, where they will say that where is the money for these things and that it would cost us 75 million euros. If anything, we should definitely support large families. In Slovenia, unfortunately, there are not many, but those who are would deserve support. And that's state support. When we listen to the evidence that lower taxes and social transfers do not go together, it seems somewhat ridiculous to me, because it is clear that the appropriate tax environment, which does not bring economic operators and citizens to extremes, does not take away everything that they can, at the same time, enable all these citizens to develop their talents in full, to work, to develop their ideas; of course, they also pay into the state budget, to the health and pension bills. This is the only way we can get more money into the state budget, then from the state budget we can finance those who need help. Because if we take to the point of disability those who are already paying taxes, of course, they will end up at some point. Everyone knows Laffer's curve, which speaks very clearly in the economy that you can raise tax rates to a certain point and then you get to a point where, despite increasing revenue in the budget and collecting money, it's going down. That is why we are committed to finding the right measure here to allow people more freedom and thus to increase their activity and end up paying into the state budget. We want this law to see the light of the world because it would significantly change our family policy, but above all it would be a very positive signal, a clear light and support by the country to all families and a message that the state values life, that the country values family.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, MEP Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again! The key content of the proposed amendments to the Law on Parental and Family Benefits is the re-implementation of the universal right to assistance at the birth of a child and an allowance for a large family with appropriate adjustments to the amounts. The desire of the proposer of these changes is thus to improve the socio-economic situation of individuals and families, to more equitable distribution of public finances, to encourage domestic consumption and to improve the demographic picture of the Republic of Slovenia, although I must say that this demographic image of the Republic of Slovenia is much talked about, but experts say that it is not so tragic, it will be difficult for some time, and then it will start to improve, so projections show. Last time we had this picture in View 2019 at the Faculty of Economics, with the participation of a number of distinguished economists from Europe and our economists, and how these matters could be bridged; I certainly agree that families should be cared for in this direction. With regard to this proposed amendment to the Alenka Bratušek Group, we note that the Government of this area of family policy will already be engaged with 1. 1. 2019 ended with the following austerity measures: the parental and parental benefits will amount to 100 % of the base; the mother's allowance is now that much; the maternity allowance will be unlimited and the parental allowance will be limited to 2.5 times the average wage; the allowance for a large family will be granted to all families, regardless of the material situation; students and students from families with income below 659,30 euros net on average to the family member will benefit from the state grant. This release of austerity measures will therefore improve the situation of families, in particular those with newborns, already in 2019. There will also be an extension of the right to an allowance for a large family and for all families who will receive an additional 4,000 families after the new one. However, any increase in additives must, of course, follow the fiscal rule. For example, the release of the above-mentioned austerity measures by 1. 1. 2019 itself requires an additional €35 million in 2019. Also in this agenda item, I would like to reiterate that social and family policies need to be regulated comprehensively, without partial interventions, as this way of action puts uncertainty into the legal order and reduces legal certainty. This is simply not something we can afford in such complex legislation and sensitivity. We will not support Alenka Bratušek's proposal for the above-mentioned reasons in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Member Yuri Lepo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Let me first say that in the Desus Group we support the efforts of the applicants to change the demographic picture of Slovenia. We also support the care to improve the social situation of our citizens, but we are not only referring to families with one or more children, but, for example, also to older people with low pensions, young people, the unemployed, and we could list them. That should be the concern of all of us. It is, of course, necessary to have before us the fact that sustainable and stable finances are the main basis for our country's operation. So if we bring it down, there'll be nothing left. Therefore, the proposed measures must be financially sustainable and consistent with the opportunities that we currently have or can do. The amendment proposes to increase the child's birth rate by €220, and to increase the allowance for a large family if the family has three children to raise by €55 and for families with multiple children by €170. The financial implications are expected to be around €75 million, which is certainly not a negligible amount. According to the rules in force, what is said now is that when a child is born, the right that all parents receive is a right, regardless of material status. It is intended to purchase equipment and necessities for the newborn, as when a new member arrives in the family, the financial obligations of the parents increase. Let me mention that most Slovenian municipalities also contribute some money or equipment at the birth of a child. This will also be the case; as of 1 January 2019, some other measures will be in place to further improve the socio-economic situation of families. For example, with the new year, the father’s and parent’s benefits will amount to 100 % of the base, and the amount of the mother’s compensation will no longer be limited. Students and students from families with income of less than €660 per family member will be eligible for a state scholarship and, which is also very important, an additional 4 000 families will receive an allowance for many families, as it will no longer be linked to material status or censorship. These are encouraging and positive measures that we support in the Desus Group. We are aware, however, that the budget is not a bottomless bag and that a line has to be drawn somewhere. If I were to refer to Mrs Ivo Dimic, who said what the country had already done and planned this year – the minimum wage had risen, the pension regress had risen, we agreed on pensions, we agreed with the wage unions in the public sector. If we put all this together, this government, this coalition, says this National Assembly, has essentially contributed almost €500 million of additional resources for the next year to improve the standard of living of Slovenians and Slovenes. We in the Desus Group also have ideas and desires, how and to whom everyone in this country should help, but we are aware that the tides and outflows in the financial treasury must be balanced and that we must not afford the instability of public finances. For all that is said and described, we will not support the conclusion that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Susana Lepi Šimenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again! Family is the basic cell of each society, as it is its original purpose in establishing a family. First of all, let us look at some basic data in this area. In recent years, the number of singles has increased and the average age of the mother has risen at the time of the birth of the first child. According to the Statistical Office, the average age of the mother when the first child was three is more than 29 years old, which is 4 years older when she was in 1995. Slovenian families have on average 1.16 children, taking into account only families with children and 1.56 children. About 53 percent of families are single - child families; families with two children are 36 percent; families with three or more children are only 11 percent. One of the main reasons for the current state of the family is the changed economic and social situation, the golden concern for economic survival and changes in the employment of men and women. As a result of demographic changes and the challenges posed by ageing, it is of paramount importance that, as a country with special measures, we encourage decision-making for marriage, family creation and the birth of children. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have committed ourselves and we have put family care and family life promotion on a high-priority scale. Within the limits of the country's ability and influence on family life, we will do everything we can to ensure that the family remains the central cell of our stay. All the measures that are going towards improving the status of families are, of course, supported. Also in the law before us, we support changes such as the reintroduction of the universal right to help with the birth of a child in the form of a remittance and an appropriate amount of €280 to €500, raising the amount of the allowance for a large family, from €395 to €450 for families with three children and €480 to €650 for families with four and more children. Amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits will, of course, be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca, for her Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u138	Good-bye! We have before us a proposal for a new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which, according to the proponents, brings some improvements that will affect the birth rate in Slovenia. If we translate this into money – about 75 million euros. The current law on child support provides for the latter to be EUR 280 plus what individual municipalities contribute. In Maribor, this is 130 euros at the birth of a child. This money shall be spent on operators designated by the Ministry. However, such a method of payment of aid in the form of grants is only envisaged as from 1 January 2020. Until then, that aid shall be paid in the form of money. The NSI Group proposes the withdrawal of this decision as it assesses that parents know best how to spend this money and that the opportunities for purposeless spending are low. Of course, we can agree that our parents know best how to spend money usefully to help us give birth to a child, but it makes sense for us to maintain an arrangement where these funds also preserve their purpose. I could list a few cases when this was not the case — perhaps another time. It is also proposed to raise the level of assistance when the child is born to EUR 500 and to raise the amount of allowances for a large family from three children to EUR 450 and for a family with four or more children to 650. Since these are proposals that have a significant impact on the state budget, we believe that such measures are smarter to take at the same time as some structural reforms that have a thorough and in-depth analysis at the back. We all agree that we would like to ensure equal opportunities for all to give more money to all, but – there is, however. Research has shown that the general characteristic of demographic phenomena is that changes, in particular in a positive direction, take place very slowly. Therefore, measures that affect the field of fertility must be very thoughtful and, of course, planned in the long term. In doing so, studies have also shown that a greater impact is achieved by investing in the provision of support services for families than only by increasing some monetary benefits, although the latter are also very important. For example, for a third child, I would not have decided just because the company or the state would have given me more than 200 euros at the time of the birth of this third child. Analysis has also shown that in Slovenia the fertility rate has declined in the past despite improvements in family policy, which has only confirmed the results that have for decades shown that in fact the negligible impact of individual family policies, particularly maternity, parental leave and child allowances, has been negligible. That, in fact, this impact on fertility is very small. There has never been a mention worth mentioning of a more lasting positive impact of any family policy action on the rate of birth. Of course, we can ask ourselves if the rate of birth would be even lower if, in fact, there were no such measures at all. However, such measures can undoubtedly help to preserve and improve the quality of life of families. Measures which, however, may have a positive impact on the rate of birth are, in particular, the following. Measures to harmonise work and family life should therefore support family policy coordination of work and family life. Promoting the self-employment of young people, their faster employment after completion of schooling, of course, as much as possible, and adequate housing policies are essential. All of this, however, can be supported by appropriate social and tax arrangements. Slovenia has, by comparison, a very good family policy, supported by a variety of measures. We can be very proud of that. When we listen to our colleagues elsewhere in Europe, we can only say that we can be happy that we were born in Slovenia. However, we do not have a comprehensive view. We will not raise natilityes by raising the nominal one-time child-bearing aid, nor will we raise it if the allowance for a large family is slightly proportionally fixed. An increase in fertility will take place when we work hard to implement long-term measures that will make it easier for young people to make a family. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we support the purpose of the proposal, but we cannot agree with the content of the proposal as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished other representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposal for amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits is one of the 4 legislative proposals by Members and Members of the NSI, which we are considering at today's meeting. Why am I stressing this at first? In view of the need to find that the applicants, with all their proposals, are either reducing tax inflows to the budget or burdening the state budget totalling more than €100 million when we are talking about 3 legislative proposals that address family policy. The problem is that the applicants do not tell us where the budget source is for all these expenses or how we will replace the budget gap created by the reduction of the corporate income tax. So how are we going to replace this shortage of funds? If we proposed a greater burden on capital, which is relatively low in Slovenia, I am sure that the applicants of this law would be the first to go against it. Even more so is the problem, because it is precisely the proposalers from the NSI that repeatedly and again warn us that we have a revised constitution and an adopted Fiscal Rule Act, that we should not spend more than we create, and that economic growth will not last forever and that today must be prepared for more difficult times when the budget flows will fall. Respectable proponents, such a policy is a non-consistency policy, because it is not possible to lower taxes first, to defend spending for different purposes the next day and to be the first to be the first to remain free of breach of fiscal rules. That, I'm sorry, doesn't work together. In fact, with such moves, you report that you do not really mean it with your suggestions, do not convince them, but of course the proposals are welcome and should be presented in front of the turned-on television cameras. The proposal for amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits will not be supported by the Social Democrats. It is not that the bill does not address the real issues and challenges that we face as a society, but this debate must also be put in the right context in the light of past policies and measures in this area and the real capabilities in today's situation. In the second Janšev government in 2012, the Public Finance Balance Act, called Zujf, significantly affected family transfers and thus made the situation of existing and future families worse. Among young people, he caused uncertainty, which certainly also affected their decision whether to create a family at all or to plan the birth of a child. This is interesting information, the number of children born in 2013 was 3.8% lower than the year before the so-called Zujf was adopted. Several measures have been taken in the past mandate, which have released austerity measures in the area of family benefits. Thus, on 1 January 2016, a child allowance was raised in the 5th and 6th income classes to the level applicable before Zujf. Some 97,000 children were involved in this measure. Since the beginning of this year, those in the 7th and 8th income classes have also been entitled to the child allowance, which includes an additional 50,000 children. During the previous term of office, paternity leave and paid parental leave were also gradually extended after a new period of 30 days. A austerity measure was implemented, which was in the form of a censorship in the form of child birth aid. A universal right has been introduced for all families, regardless of the material situation in the form of charity that parents today use for children’s equipment, necessities, children’s food and the like. In recent years, some other family policy stimulus measures have been taken. I would therefore like to point out that we have always supported such measures and we have been particularly sensitive to these issues, but we have resolved individual issues gradually, as the circumstances and the constraints involved have to be taken into account. The bill that we are considering today is addressing family policy issues that are legitimate and will have to be dealt with with with with with all due diligence, but it should be stressed that the legal solutions are envisaged in a way that will burden the state budget of EUR 75 million per year, with no resources being provided anywhere. The policy of increasing the remuneration provided for by this law will not necessarily lead to a key objective for which the bill's proponents are to pursue, in itself, greater fertility. We believe that measures in the area of family policy must be more thoughtful and planned in the long term, with the key role being played by the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. However, rapid and like changes often cause even some negative effects. Therefore, we will not support the proposal by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word is given to Mojca Žnidarič, a member of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. A nice hello to all once again! The family has an important role to play in society, and the protection of the family by society and the state is also of great importance. The aim of family policy in Slovenia is mainly to ensure the quality of life of families with special emphasis on the quality of life of children, as well as the protection and protection of families. We all know well, and we are aware that Slovenia is facing a major demographic challenge, society is ageing, and this is unfortunately not the case. Therefore, responsible, thoughtful and integrated planning and implementation of family policy is of paramount importance. In fact, only with a quality family policy that offers strong support to families can we achieve that our citizens will decide for the family. Unfortunately, the implementation of family policy in Slovenia in recent years has been greatly influenced, even to a large extent, by Zujf, who had a significant negative impact on families and young people through interventions in the area of parental protection and family benefits. During the time of the Government of Mira Cerar, a favourable economic picture allowed us to relax a number of measures in the area of family policy and measures were taken to improve the situation of Slovenian families. Finally, after 25 years, the Resolution on Family Policy, 2018-2028, was adopted. With all this, a clear signal was given that the family has a special status in society and that we are aware of its importance. The rapporteur for today's paper states in explanation that the main reason for the proposed changes is the demographic picture and that one of the objectives of the bill is therefore to improve the demographic picture that can be achieved by means of a revised method of granting assistance at the birth of a child and by changing the amount of the allowance for a large family. As of 2020, the amendment to the law will be granted at the time of the birth of the child in the form of a charity in order to ensure that the aid granted is spent for the purpose for which it was granted to the parents. Therefore, it seems a little pointless for us to change the method of granting assistance at the birth of a child even before the effects of the changes adopted are not known at all. The Constitutional Court points out that the legislator must have reasonable reasons for amending the legislation within a relatively short period of time. In doing so, we recall that the last amendments to the law in question were adopted in February of this year, 10 months ago. Furthermore, the bill proposes a higher allowance for a large family. The fact is that more children for parents is a greater financial burden, there is no doubt about it. However, I would like to remind you that, as of 1 January 2019, there will be some additional austerity measures in the area of family policy that will significantly improve the socio-economic situation of families. That is, the large family allowance will be universal and will no longer be linked to the material position of the family, so the supplement will receive an additional 4,000 families. Several students and students will be eligible for a state scholarship. The parental and parental benefits will amount to 100% of the base, the amount of the maternity allowance will not be limited. The release of these austerity measures will improve the situation of families, especially those with newborns. Even though we recognise and recognize the importance of family policy in the SMC and within it parental protection and family benefits, in the SMC Group we will not support the bill proposal. The change of law will not solve the problem of long-term fertility in the country. The resolution of the demographic problem must be carefully planned, taking into account the financial sustainability of the country, and should not be based solely on an increase in fertility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, the representative of the rapporteur, Mr Iva Dimic, wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The distinguished representatives of the parliamentary groups, who represented your views, your message was clear – that you simply do not want family benefits to change or settle. Even more, I understand that some do not even want family and social policies to be separated in the country. I can say that the view of New Slovenia is such that family policy cannot and cannot be a social policy, because family incomes or children's incomes cannot eliminate some social distress. It's unfair. It is unfair to children and it is unfair to those who really need social assistance who cannot survive without social assistance. Children’s allowances or benefits for children and other benefits from this law are not social aid, but they are investment, investment. An investment in children that has returned to the state budget over so many years. Because these children are going to get a job because of these children's consumption, of course, and I think it's right that we're different once in a while. The fact is that in Slovenia we need social policy in a narrower sense to help vulnerable and family policy, invest in children and their lives. Our proposal follows this — investing in children and their lives. The current regime is really neglecting the social field and it seems to me that it does not devote the necessary money and attention to the most sensitive, and I think we need to take into account the broader picture of what we want. Even in the adoption of the law itself, when we warned in New Slovenia that when universal aid was introduced at the birth of a child in the form of a remittance, where it was previously changed, I think we changed this good year ago. [[…]] They said that cash social assistance will now be only in the case or to certain suppliers you will be able to apply the voucher you will receive at the time of the birth of the child. At the time we were opposed, and it seemed to us, for the first time, that someone would be preferred, to whom it could be bought, that someone, I would say, might be a more domestic or less domestic supplier or a provider of children’s equipment, and on the other hand, I think why parents should not freely choose what they want at the time of the birth of their child. If they get in the form of money, then he can say, I'll buy a used cart. Why not? Why? I'll buy a used placenta. Why not? Why does he have to buy a new wheelchair for every child? Because of the higher consumption? I still think it is right that the country offers parents assistance at the birth of a child, but with this help parents have to have what they can afford and what they will buy in a certain month. Not that it's overwritten. Our proposal is also to increase the allowance for a large family, and for a family with three children, it is limited to 450 and with more children to 650 euros. This is also what we pointed out in the adoption of legislation, I think a year ago, that children are in an unequal situation. Children in a family with three children or children in a family with seven children — this difference is very important, very large. For one child in a family with three children comes about € 130 per child, and in a family with seven children comes this, I think, about €70 per child. Are all children then equal in this country? Does everyone in this country have the same opportunities in this way? If you are in a larger family, you are in some way — what? Marked because you might have a slightly smaller allowance for your family. It seems to me that, if we can, the calculations we made show that a five-member family with a preschool child spends between 150 and 200 euros more than a family without a preschool child, as we suggest in New Slovenia. I think we need to think. You yourself said that some, or even those last austerity measures in the family area, would relax. Last but not least, I may have forced a little of my statement that the matter in the Ministry and Government was slightly different, since it was first said that they would continue to abstain, which would not have been surprising, because in the last six years this has indeed happened twice, and these temporary measures, which could have expired in the field of families, have been extended until 2018 and 2019. However, it seems to me that you should think about what and how the introduction of universal assistance at the birth of a child would still be designed I think that times have come to this level, that parents are watching and wanting everything for their children, maybe sometimes we are turning them too much into cotton, but we are going with this supplement or with this change of this supplement, how they would be justified, one step forward or we say, we are giving ourselves the opportunity to design our own family policy, without us giving you the law and talking and determining where you can use it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Following the general debate of Members and Members on the draft law, Joseph Horvat has the floor to prepare Joseph Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u146	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I am extremely pleased, colleagues and colleagues, that we have been able to unify you Members and Members of New Slovenia, that we have united at least one point, and this is that family policy for the country is extremely important for Slovenian society. I see no one's protesting, so I'm telling the truth and this conclusion is correct. I would be even more pleased if, hundreds of days ago, the new government had a ministry for the family. Why is it not good that we have a ministry of work, family, social affairs, all of it? It feels like family policy is part of social policy. I'm sure we all agree here that it's not and that it can't be. And if we get so many new secretaries of state – let them work, expect results before the first summer parliamentary holidays, as you all predict – we would not have a word of criticism in Novi Slovenija if your government had a ministry for the family. I believe you'll get the best of your staff. We'd be able to beat an excellent minister or a minister of the family. But there's still time. We can change the government law very quickly. And that would be an extremely good signal for Slovenian society. We have repeatedly said that if you ask young people what their greatest value is, most of it is the family’s answer. Interestingly, as far as I know these public studies, health is not the first thing I know. Family comes first. What family means, there's no time to discuss all this here. Among us are experts from this area who can explain for a long time what family really means and how and why it is wise to have a good family policy. Now that you're asking us where to get the money, it's this constant again, where to take the source, where it's not complete, it's partial, it's not systemic, it's where to take the money. We didn't ask you where you're going to take 308 million, we don't ask you where you're going to take the money, where you're going to take the outgoing ministers full-time, and of course this ministerial team also employs, normally, political loyal people. I'm sure political loyalty comes first, and I guess that's the fourth place of competence. It would be very good to refresh ourselves of the Resolution on the Fundamentals of Family Policy-making in the Republic of Slovenia. Why am I mentioning this resolution? Because the National Assembly adopted it practically at its beginning when we were doing this country, namely in July 1993, and the fact is that all Member States of the United Nations recognise the importance and role of family in society and also the need for its protection by society or by the State. We have this very well written down in the Slovenian Constitution. How much we are doing this – yes, okay, the constitution is not an enforcement act, but it gives one very important legal framework. And how much now this fact that the state must protect the family, parents and children is indeed being applied, but of course it is a matter of long analysis and debate. These fundamental principles and needs are confirmed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights – those who talk a lot about human rights are here. This is where I think of you. They are therefore confirmed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 16; by the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, Article 10; and by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 23. However, the most recent international instrument in this area is the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provides, inter alia, that States parties must recognise to each child the right to a standard of living which corresponds to their physical, mental, spiritual, moral and social development, with one or both parents having the primary responsibility to ensure, in accordance with their capacities and material capabilities, the living conditions necessary for the development of the child. In order not to go too far back in 1993, let me remind new colleagues that the National Assembly adopted on 20 February this year the Resolution on Family Policy in the Republic of Slovenia, for the period from 2018, this is from this year and for the next decade until 2028. In fact, we follow this law, that's all we want and nothing else. This law of ours — and in no way did anyone criticize it in order not to agree with the Resolution on Family Policy in the Republic of Slovenia for this ten-year period — is in disagreement. It is somehow placed in the obstacle set by the resolution. If that's all it is, then I think we should take at least Article 1. But we have a second treatment for that. We can criticise for a long time that bad calculations are, and as you say, non-systemic and so on. We objected to the solution – I think some year ago, as colleague Iva Dimic said – when the minister and then, of course, the coalition proposed and accepted that the newborn receive the package. A package of some material goods. That's in force today, isn't it? But as far as I know, this doesn't work, because the previous minister failed to ensure who this supplier was supposed to be, and this could be a big problem. This may be a major problem and it may immediately be possible for the minister, but this time the current one, to see that she has some connections with the suppliers and so on. That's why we say child support is a one-time payout for purchasing equipment or needs for a child. So this is a financial benefit expressed in euros, which we are proposing EUR 500. Why don't we let our parents have this freedom? Why would they restrict me — now I’m going to caricine a little — to buy a pink bear for my son or to be brought home by the country? This does not seem to make sense to us, so we are correcting these matters by means of this law. I believe there are many suggestions on your part, dear coalition colleagues and colleagues, to improve our law. That is precisely the purpose of the parliamentary procedure. Don't hold us to words. If some number on another decimal isn't good, let's get it fixed. If 500 euros is too much, let's say 450 euros. If 500 euros is too small, let's say 550. It's a matter of discussion. This is a matter of freedom of parliamentary debate. It's not a dictatorship. So it is only then that in the second reading that we can change this law, optimize it, that in the second reading you can also destroy it by actually deleting all the articles, but that we have at least a chance to have a discussion where the professional public, of course, would also be invited. [[…]] As you know, in the first reading, only the ministry – which is commendable – can come – but now we have no views from the professional public, and I believe that we are going through a lot in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Lenart has the floor to prepare Ambassador Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Hello, present, all together again! So we live in a time of information and rapid development in a modern and at the same time cruel turbulent day. We forget everything too much about the base cell of our society. Can we listen to the needs of our young family? At work called growth and fertility and concern for our existence, we are all too macho as a country. Our regular households have only three more members, since raising and caring for a child is too expensive. If I am a bit of a follow-up to Finance, in one of last year's financial articles, Mrs Maja Virant stated: "Children are our greatest wealth, but have you ever wondered how much they cost you. We're out. From the moment the child cries to the world, until the end of education, it will make you feel better by EUR 184 000." Now, if I might get a little bit more into her term "lighter", which was not the happiest. I do not feel that my sons, my students, have made it easy for me to make money, but I do believe — because I have experienced — that schooling and everything was quite expensive. By the age of 23, if young people really go to college, I'm sure it costs us about 120,000. Those who do not have them or do not want them will find this difficult to understand. We are proud of them because we know that they may have given us even more than we have given them. And if we are to make progress in this country, then we must have a sense of family. Now we're talking about where we're going to take what we're going to take – in fact, we're kind of monitoring that we can raise more than one billion euros by the end of 2018 than we actually did in 2017. If we spend too much on new employees in Ljubljana, in agencies and so on, we get to the numbers 6.7,000 new well-paid jobs, then, of course, on the other hand, where necessary, we may also run out. So if our legislation were more kind to parents and families with multiple children, young people might decide for at least two children. But we can't say to a young mom, "Look, have two kids." Maybe we have some candy or some chocolate, if I put it that way, for them, and that will eventually lead to more fertility. No one expects anyone to have a third child because of the 200 euros we have heard before. Who's expecting that? But in the long run, we're just trying to produce positive effects. Parents with good income also have problems because they have too little time to raise their children. And there are also problems when moms are actually working all day, but sometimes they could take time, and it wasn't a problem if she went on sick leave. I therefore believe that this bill can at least make their difficult mission easier financially and actually give it to them in this case by supporting the good proposal submitted by the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Member Alexander Reberšek has the floor, followed by Ambassador Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. In New Slovenia, we believe that social and family policies should be separated. The law that we are preparing and here before you is a step in the right direction, because we are proposing substantial solutions, the reintroduction of universal assistance at the birth of a child in the form of a remittance and an appropriate correction of the amount, 500 euros, the increase in the amount of the allowance for a large family, for a family with 3 children 450 euros and for a family with 4 and more children 650 euros. What I find most interesting here is that the government has also acknowledged in its opinion that the solutions it is proposing are not bad. I therefore urge you once again to think carefully about our proposal and, of course, to support it. I believe, however, that the Government has taken the wrong path in solving demographic policy. We will save Slovenia only with support from families and not with migration. The shame I'm hearing right now is that you're taking your family as a cost and not as an investment in our future. You can also show your relationship to your family by attending this session. Now we are a little bit outnumbered, and I hope there will be more of us at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Since there's quite a few log-outs, I'd like to list the other ones that are still on the list. For Ambassador Mojca Žnidarič there are Jernej Vrtovec, Marijan Pojbič, Janja Sluga, Matej Tonin, Vojko Starović and Robert Pavšič. Now I give the word to Mojci Žnidarič, and for her will be Ambassador Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. I would like to stress once again, the last amendment, the amendment of the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act was adopted this year, that is, February 2018, 10 months ago. And what did this novel bring? A more simple, transparent and flexible way of using a father's leave has eliminated the price of entitlement to child support, so now all families are entitled to this assistance at the birth of a child, introduces a 30-day parental leave also for adoptive parents, introduces payment of assistance at the birth of a child in the form of charity. While we can have different opinions here, each legislation must always be harmonised. It also introduces the payment of a higher child allowance for children up to the age of 4. This child supplement is 20% higher. The system regulates help in buying wines for large families. Thus, these benefits were accepted in February and are now with 1. 1. 2019 releases austerity measures that will further bring certain benefits to the wider families. The parental and parental benefits will now amount to 100% of the base, up to now being 90%. The maternity allowance will not be limited, the parental allowance will be limited to 2.5 times, until now it has been 2-fold. Then the big family allowance, which is what we are most discussing today, will be given to all families. I think that's what family policy is all about. Because social policy is the policy that only some people have. And I think it really makes sense for 4,000 families to get it more than to raise it for some 50 and give it only to those families that are now receiving it. Some 8 000 500 students and students will also be eligible for the state grant, as this last income class and the award for the state grant will now be 659.30 euros net per family member, so far 576. So all the rights that are being released in the last year are being extended to a wider range of people, and I think that's exactly what family policy is, because family policy is supposed to give all children the same. However, I must also say something, before that, the colleague mentioned how much the Maribor community gives, and I know that some other municipalities give very large awards at the birth of a child, including 500 euros, 1,000 euros and more, but I do not believe that this would only raise the birth rate in these municipalities. I would like to say that this is in a given situation — all of the measures I listed — which were adopted by law at the beginning of the year and now by releasing austerity measures — in the current situation as much as possible. So this state bag also has a bottom, and that was possible, unfortunately not possible anymore. Of course, as has been said, the proposals are not bad, but I think it is really better to get this supplement for large families all than to raise only some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Member Jernej Vrtovec has the word and is followed by Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you very much. New Slovenia certainly invests this legislation to improve the situation of families only from several perspectives, but one of the main ones is that we have a very bad demographic picture in Slovenia. So it's missing births. And so, what is our perspective, this is our key question. Low fertility, a poor demographic picture is not only a problem for Slovenia, but it is a problem for the whole Western world, but surely these trends need to be reversed and changed. In the long term, Slovenia will have only two options with such birth rates, such as demographic indicators. The first we know is the import of labour, or the second to take certain measures – not to say that New Slovenia's actions are the best, but at the table alone – which would mean greater fertility. This is how financial injections improve our demographic image. That's two options. And finally, as Umar says, this is a challenge before Slovenia. [[…]] Big challenge, these demographic trends. Let us see what this means for the Slovenian pension system, for example. What does this mean, what will happen to Slovenia in 20 years if these demographic trends continue? Who's gonna pay for my pension? For your retirement? Or, what does that mean for a medical checkout? Who's going to pay for the medical bills? We are facing very severe challenges, which is why measures that mean raising fertility – or at least some of us think that these measures mean – need to talk with a greater degree of sobriety and determination, not just with the obvious that there is another law that New Slovenia is applying just to do something, but because they are populists. This is not the case, because once again, I stress, I would expect government anti-actions, how the government will fight in the long run to improve demographic trends. Now, don't just say it, we've released austerity measures. That takes a lot more. The institutes are doing this abroad, the studies are being done nonstop, and Umar is just warning us, and no one is following this. In order to reverse the demographic picture, both legislative and other systemic measures are really necessary, and it is essential – here I may be slightly different from my colleagues and colleagues – that I think it is essential to make a decision about what to do about the parents to decide for the other child. Not for the third, fourth, fifth, for the second child. First of all, I think there's a kind of problem here in understanding the culture of life, so it's said, the culture of comfort is between us, for sure. So if you have one or two children, that's the difference. Second, there must be values here. Thirdly, employment is the weight of employment, what employment, especially women have Here is also a career and not least housing problems. [[…]] Many of us are still living in an intergenerational relationship, with old parents and so on, because there is simply no solution to housing problems in this country. Thanks also to the generation ahead of us, this is not the way to wave these holes. But especially for another child, there are more and more of us who do not have a decision for the fourth child, because it is a very rare thing, but for the second, we need to talk about it already. It's a decision for another child. What to offer these parents, what to do for these parents, to make it easier for them to decide. I also claim that not everything is in money, but in particular in terms of conditions. Today, jobs are very difficult, very difficult jobs, and this is where these problems arise. But we also need to talk about money. We started by giving some acceleration, some perspective to parents at the birth of a child. A single 500 euro will come in handy, say what you want. For the country, this is a minimum cost compared to what we have thrown out of the window for many other things in the last three months, so that we can buy social peace so that we can now invest effectively. And the unions got off the streets back to work. So if we don't talk about how to improve the demographic picture ourselves, then no one will talk to us. If we do not improve the demographic picture here at home ourselves, then only another option exists to ensure the future of the country, namely the import of labour. This is what we already know how Germany 2015 did, as other European Union countries do. If the state decides to do so, I do not think this is a good chance that there is this first option, which is better for the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Marijan Pojbič, to prepare the mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First, there is the same problem as any of the opposition parties has ever introduced the law, but it does not matter what its content is. I am particularly disappointed that in this policy, because I am already five mandates in the National Assembly, now the fifth, I see that the parties to the coalition, as they are now made up, are not the most favoured traditional families, are not the most inclined to do so, which we have often said is the foundation of every society. At least I hope that the Ministry of Labour will now change one aspect of the attitude towards this important issue, which has been raised in the past on a different basis. In this way, I am sure that it has also tried to undermine the healthy foundations of every society, and this is not right. This is harmful, and it also shows in the long run, as I initially said, that it is harmful. I'm sure we're all concerned that investing in children is the biggest thing society can do to make it exist. And if we are aware of that by everyone sitting here today in the National Assembly, regardless of who is in which political option, then we should look for appropriate solutions that help and go in the direction of what I said in the introduction. But unfortunately again, I see that the coalition parties, the Government and all those who bear the greatest responsibility in this area, oppose what is proposed by this law. I must say, I'd be happy to support him myself. For one more thing, it seems very important that I try to explain it to those who may never understand it, and that is, I was a member of the family of six children, and I probably felt the most about what a great family means. It happened that in the eighth grade of elementary school, my oldest sister and my youngest sister were in the 1st grade. At the time, all six children went to primary school at the same time, and you know how important every cent, every euro — then they were other currencies, otherwise they were called — was that this family could function as it should have been. That we had those basic needs that we needed to go to school. That we could walk without talking about all the other supplies and so on. I know what that means, so it seems to me that it's hard to discuss big families and help these big families who have either one child or maybe two or none. It's very difficult because you'll never understand what the point is. As I said before, investing in children is the most important thing and everyone's priority not to talk at all about politics, everyone in politics, to try to help with that piece of our own to give birth to as many children as possible. We can see for ourselves that this has been ten times today or I don't know how many times it has been repeated that we're an old society. And we have no choice as a society to survive if we do not have the youth, young people, those who will fill the cash registers in the future, and in this way we will be able to obtain the pension, the health system, the medical treasury and so on and so on. I don't think I really need to explain this. So, our interest must be. First-class. To help and do everything the state can to make young couples decide for their children. We all know one thing that we are all aware of: without high economic growth, without encouraging the economy, without well-paid jobs, we have nothing to expect. And we should not and should not allow any society that wants to stay to allow what is now allowed in Slovenia at a given time – that a large number of people leave Slovenia annually or daily. Just the most educated people, for whom we have invested a lot, in which we have invested a lot, and the whole world is aware of how capable Slovenians are because they love us, whether you come to America or you come to Switzerland or you come to Austria and wherever we are, we will prove ourselves. And we are beginning to push these young people in this situation across borders because we do not provide them with basic conditions. One of the basic conditions is, of course, employment immediately after completion of schooling, and this is a suitable job. Then a second condition, a suitable housing policy where these young people can have an apartment for themselves or get it for rent and thus provide with work and adequate income the conditions for them to establish a family, and then they start to make the usual decisions for children. And if children are given a normal job for the first time in 30 or more years, it is logical that in that time women also know what it means to have children for 30 or more years, then they do not make decisions. They usually decide for one child. So we, this society, must, this policy must aspire to it no matter who the party is, to create the conditions for it and to prevent the brain and this youth from escaping abroad. We have no chance of filling this problem and this hole, as I say, with migrants. Believe me, no options, and this is the wrong policy, wrong thinking already basically. For the last time, I was in Maribor in an institution where I was told that recently almost 30% of the employees who are urgently needed to carry out this activity have left Slovenia and gone to Austria. They were visited by the President of the Government and were asked: "Dear Mr President, please tell us slowly what to do. We will have to close this institution if the matter goes that way." They'll just have to shut it down. What about those who spend their lives in this institution? I will not go into detail that and then Mr President of the Government replied: “You know, now you see why we stand for migrants.” [[…]] Yes, of course, they will be the ones to replace these people – what do you think? That's it. And if this government, this coalition is leading such a policy, look, it's beneath every level. And that people in such a high position allow themselves to interpret and explain the problem faced by those who want to solve the problem in some appropriate, normal, decent way, then, of course, all these key people are slowly losing faith in politics, losing faith in us and so on. Once again, I would like to stress and say, I think you all understand very well that we can save our future only by investing in children. And on the other hand, preventing children from being pushed across the border. That's two things. And I don't think it's necessary to repeat what I said – that we need an appropriate economic environment to do so, that we need, as I said, an appropriate economic policy, that we also need what is covered by this law here. It is said that in the part where the country can also help in part, it helps to co-finance. And it's not about, I don't know -- just from what's written here with the law, I'm sure a big family wouldn't survive. But this is certainly a great added value for large families, and it is extremely important for us as a society that we exist. And once again, we're all aware that society is getting older. And once again, I think it is right to realise that there is much more to be done, that this matter stops somewhere and that the trend begins to evolve in a different direction. And if we do this and if we understand in the right way how to do it and what needs to be done to stimulate people or young couples to have more than one child, two, three, then we are on the right track. But when we propose anything that would help these people, there's always a thousand and one reason, an argument why it doesn't go through, why it's wrong, why we're burdening the budget, and that's all I'm listening to. On the other hand, look, for the last time I spoke, this country lost 400 million in the Ljubljana Bank, probably this number of money at the second track, that we are not talking now, this has never happened in our society, that in every ministry, as far as it comes to mind, it can be the number of employees of state secretaries. Each secretary comes up with 5,000 euros a month, about gross. To allow ourselves to have someone who sells state property with us, one lady, the president of SDH, I think over 13,000 euros is paid. Whose money is that? And to fund NGOs, as we think. As far as we can think! Unbelievable. Money goes and none of this feedback, none of which we have, and contributions to the child brings us far the most and ensures the existence of society. Just stimulating parents to have more children is what makes the future rich and the development of this society, and also the existence of this society when we also talk about Slovenia. I wanted to say that there is no problem on the one hand with large amounts of money from the state budget either directly or directly, on the other hand, when it comes to family policy, but when it comes to the fundamental future of our society, there is no money. It's always the same story. There's no money, there's no money. There is no problem for the public and public sectors. There's no problem raising wages, agreements adopted. This problem, the signing of an agreement with the public sector unions, is no problem! Anyone could have signed that if they'd agreed to everything they asked for. Then there's no problem signing such an agreement. Then I can sign it too! No problem. But whoever did this should also be aware of how much we produce on one side, how much we can spend on the other. And what are the priorities of this society? It is clear that this government coalition is one state and public sector for this government of the priority of this company. But in this state and public sectors, I am not talking about those who have a minimum wage. This is group J. This is extremely inappropriate for us to have such a group in the public and state sectors at all. That's it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's right. Seven thousand 500 people are like that. They should be taken care of! But not to directors to raise their salaries by five classes and so on. They already have a great salary anyway. They have a great salary. So, for this part, we have money to help families — but there is no money here. And I just don't get it. I'd be glad if we had some sort of balancing machine, especially if we have priorities. And I told you what our first priority is if we want society to exist. In addition, our priority — investing in a child — must also be a family as the basic cell of society. And if we understand it in the right way, and if we understand it I know we understand it, the only question is, which one of you is willing to do something about it. [[…]] It is said that 2TKK to do, through which billions wash away, no problem to raise what is written here in this law is not money. There's no money. Tell us how much longer we're going to lie to this society in this way, we're going to deceive this society. And how long will it take to train young people, and those born in Slovenia will then drive them across the border. Because we do not create conditions for an adequate and quality development of the economy. Because if they did, people would stay at home, they would be employed in our companies, and they would get decent wages here, so that they would be happy to develop their knowledge, their capacity within their home country, where they were born and where they were educated. It is amazing how many young people move from Slovenia! And this deficit shows up. I don't know how long it's gonna take us to understand that we have to do something about it to stop it. And if we don't stop it, believe me, we're gonna be old men here for 80, 90 years. Who's gonna fill the cash registers? Who says we're getting pensions? Are you aware of that here, all politicians?Oh, my God! And then it is difficult for us to add something to those who might have another child to add a cent to convince them that we have shown will. That we have shown at least that basic determination, and then that the families will choose one additional child, is to say that if they have two, maybe three, and so on. So before that, I said in the beginning that at my age, families were six, five children, and so on. That is also why our society, our country and Slovenia, as such, have remained. But as trends are now turning around, believe me, we don't have a long life, and you will soon find out for yourself. Therefore, I ask that all the good suggestions that have been made in good faith today, if you have listened to me, I have not talked about any political option. [[…]] I spoke exclusively about our common interest in the existence and future of the development of our society. And I'm asking you to support this marriage. You know, this is the first consideration, this law can be upgraded, it can be changed, it can be done practically anything that we want to prepare in a form that is acceptable to our society. In particular, the last sentence: children are our greatest wealth, children are our future, and believe me, if you invest in children, it is far from the best investment for every society and for every country.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. First of all, Mrs Iva Dimic, the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you very much. There has now been a lot of talk about family policy, but let me stress that in New Slovenia we are constantly thinking and trying to lead to a point where everyone can say together what family policy is and understand it and what social policy is. Here, too, from the point of view and honesty of all who receive social assistance or social money. We want simply what was legalized a bad year ago: to reintroduce universal assistance at the birth of a child in the form of a remittance, not in the form of a package, so that each individual can decide, and to make two classes of aid for a large family, so that children in a larger family are equivalent to those in a slightly smaller family. If I may say so, a family with three children or a family with seven children, to at least ease this difference here, because, after all, everything we do on family policy, we do for the benefit of the children. Above all, it is the most important thing, and then I am sure that family policy in Slovenia will come to life or that we will be able to implement it – when we all realize that money for family policy or money for a child is not a cost of the state, but investment or investment. Because a child who goes to school and then continues to be educated is very valuable. Because if there are more of these children, then there are also more children involved in public education – I know that some mayor may not now agree with me because he may have some difficulties in some congregation, but – as a result, in primary school, eventually in high school, in college. If we have a policy to encourage this, then we will not have to speak, as I have seen some articles, how many fewer children are enrolled each year in high school and that the departments are closing down and, consequently, teachers are losing their jobs or have to retrain. If we were to be aware that money or income for a family policy for a child is the investment of a country that will return very quickly within a few years, and not later than 20 years after that child or this younger family member is hired, of course, the circle will turn around. [[…]] As long as we are looking at the way it has been seen so far that the funds allocated to the family policy are such a cost to the state that the state cannot bear it – and this has actually happened because the family policy is the last in line with the end of austerity measures – it seems to me that we do not all have the same goal. I personally do not lose faith in politics, I know that you will understand what we want to say in New Slovenia, and I know that you will accept. The only thing I'm sorry about is that before things change, there's a generation that could have been involved before. If I just respond to some of the debates. It is true that certain local communities themselves reward the birth of a new member because they want to reward their citizens, and there are municipalities that do not favour this, which have item 0 in the budget of the congregation. And it seems to me that the state should not count on any other role that it would not have done to carry on at the expense of the local community, since the local communities have already received enough. But it is only the willingness of the mayor and the municipal council to devote some euro to a new member, a new citizen, and it is a reward. If this is at national level in family policy, this is, of course, a right that the state or government should understand and, of course, encourage every single government. I have one question, even though I'm a proponent. Although I have calculations for one of the European countries, I just want to know if we have any calculations at the Ministry, what positive effects it has for a pensioner's family with 3 children, 5, 7 for a period of 40 years, as necessary for a pension fund. If we have any of this, if you have such calculations. I have a calculation, I can say, for France, where exactly in the design of family policy – and you, my fellow Members, know that France has a rather encouraging family policy, that universal children's allowance, that it has calculations made at 40 years of age, which means a transfer or some assistance to family policy or social policy. And if you do, however, here we all work for a longer period, for the future, we adopt strategies, in the previous mandate we have adopted a strategy for the development of Slovenia by 2050, it is said, we are doing strategies in the long term, saying, we should also see what it means to invest on the basis of family policy over 40 years, what every child who is more, I hope, more for a period of 40 years, what this brings, what positive financial effects it brings to the pension fund. [[…]] It seems to me that if we once had such calculations ahead of us, it would be easier for all of us to talk about these things. As long as we don't have these calculations, it seems to me that we're walking around in circles, and then we're just talking about how we would have, what we would have done, so that some family might have one more child. But the approach is kind of wrong. The state has to watch in the long run what it brings. And then those measures may be appropriate to encourage families. One of them was also a free kindergarten eight years ago, if I'm not mistaken. I think that this was the only period, the period of 15, 16 years when the rise in births in Slovenia was higher. I am convinced that with some good family policy, including our proposal, not least, it seems to me that we have an investment in the country, in the citizens with our proposal of the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act, and it would be nice to look at it from other salaries, not only where we are taking it from, as was understood and heard in our positions today, that it is too much of a cost for the state budget. Let's look at what that would mean in 40 years or in 30 or in 20 years, and let's divide what that would mean for the country then. How can you say it's a cost if you don't know what's gonna happen in 20, 30, 40 years? If we had a chance here today – and the Ministry of Labour representatives might be able to complement me, they would tell me this information, if not, maybe some future meeting to see where we are in this area. Then I really am counting on your support to do the right thing to resolve family policy and to strengthen social policy in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin, prepare to be Mr Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u160	Dear Members and Members! I think that today's debate can very visually clear up some situation in this national assembly. I will describe some of them, first about the old policy of the current coalition, then who is the coalition at all, and about demagogy and social policy. These are the subjects I want to process a little bit. If memory does not deceive me, the President of the Government has repeatedly stressed in his pre-election performances that he wants to bring into this political space a new policy, a new way of action based on the fact that politics is working together to seek consensus solutions and to strive to move certain things forward together. Those were the words before the elections. With regard to the amendment of our Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which, say, would give 500 euros to all children at birth as assistance at birth and increase the supplement for a large family with three children to 450 euros, with four and more euros to 650 euros, the Government wrote in its opinion, read the last paragraph, which reads: "For the sake of the said Government, the proposal does not support the proposal at this time, although it does not consider the proposed solutions as bad." Although it does not view the proposed solutions as bad. Government, thank you very much. Where does this old policy show up? The old policy shows that this coalition has set itself the goal of not accepting or confirming anything that comes from the opposition, despite the fact that its government has written that the solutions are not bad. Nothing. So all the time, I insist that this government coalition has used some of the old policies that I hoped it would survive. Even in the past, it was a little better. If you remember the 2004-2008 mandate, there was a development partnership where the legislative proposals even co-ordinated with the opposition, the opposition took note of the government's intentions, even more, even of the opposition's legislation. And I think it's a very good principle and a good way of operating a policy, because imagine that this block division and this way of doing it – what does it do? More division of this policy and even more division of Slovenia. Why? Because the opposition is trying, preparing proposals, working, and the coalition is not enough to sit at the same table and create some dialogue with us. We have never claimed that all our solutions are perfect, ideal and only acceptable, but in this House we want to open up the debates that we think are crucial for the development of this society. And for things that are crucial to the development of society and which even the Government considers not to be bad, this Parliament and these Members should have the power to sit at the common table and talk about these things. In New Slovenia we tried this, even in some laws, the coalition sat at the common table, but came forward convinced that this was not good. Thank you so much for this dialogue. For me, dialogue is only for you to say what you agree with, what you disagree with and what we can do and what we can do. Only in this way would tensions in this society be reduced. I know this requires more work from you, including more patience, but even if we had listened to the opposition at some point, we would probably have to take the wind out of the core sometime, so that we could mitigate some of the things in this society and eventually come to a common solution. But no, you say, the old policy: “What is not ours must be rejected.” Then one wonders how this Parliament can even function if it is supposed to have a minority government. And now I come to my second point – who is the coalition? We say or say that we have a minority government that does not have 46 votes. From the very beginning, it's clear that we have a coalition, six parties. Otherwise, one doesn't smell like a coalition, but they act like they're not a coalition, but look, look at the cases every day in Parliament. At this December session, at any meeting of the six-party coalition, we reject the principle of the old policy: which is not ours. Well, well, as the Prime Minister said, he doesn't want to bring unrest into this coalition. I believe that the coordination of the five different parties is difficult and that it would probably be a complete shock if any opposition proposal were supported, and I still understand it after that, and I absolutely do not understand the Left. I don't understand you. They say we should fight for the weak, for the social, for those people who need some state help. I hope that people are watching this day after day, because day after day laws that oppose them are coming, even though they give people a social preference, day after day they oppose this law. You know why? Only because they were proposed by the opposition and because they are aligned with the coalition that they should not do so. So much so that it is clear to everyone that we have a coalition and that the Left is extremely inconsistent, as far as its programme is concerned. Because they should then interpret and tell the Slovenian public, which makes it difficult for them to help with the birth of a child of 500 euros. Today, there are some 270 euros, something like that, slightly less than 300 euros. So very clear, simple question, dear Parliamentary Group Left: Why do you object that when Slovenian children are born, they get 200 euros more help when they have a baby than they get today? Why? I see this as absolutely unconstant and contrary to your program. But it's only right that people know that you speak one thing and you do the other. And if anything, then I feel it is my duty to let the public know that it is necessary to tell the public honestly that there is a group of Members who are absolutely speaking one thing and doing another. And then I get to my last point, demagogy and social. Run, come on! Whatever comes from the right, which favors those who are weak, who need help, is always demagogy, by the coalition it is always an accusation of demagogy, contrary to the fiscal rule where we take money and similar things, always, but when similar things come from coalition sides, but it is a great policy, we help the poor, we do good things. They don't care if it's in line with the fiscal rule, whether there's money in the budget or not, then they don't care because they do. And because they do, it's okay. When reasonable suggestions come from the opposition, everything is wrong. My dears, if we continue this entire mandate in this spirit, then this society will be far more divided in four years than it is today. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Prior to receiving the word of the next debater, Mr Boštjan Koražija has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. The procedural proposal goes to Mr Mag. Matthew Tonin because he's deceiving. Publicly in front of the cameras, he's telling the truth about us as Levi, and I'm asking you to warn him not to use fake terms or even some fake names, whatever. Basically, it's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you for your procedural proposal, which was not. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members may only be reminded of the proper use of the procedure. Now Mr Tonin has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u164	Madam Vice-President, I think you are having a good meeting and it is correct that you have warned a Member who has gravely violated the Rules of Procedure. Because what he was saying had nothing to do with the procedure, but he was simply discussing it. And you could say these things in the debate, maybe in sharing time with no major problems, or even with the replica. I think it is also appropriate that you apply any sanctions that are allowed by the Rules of Procedure in the course of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, what he said did not hold true, for he said in his position that they would oppose the law, despite the fact that it would increase funds for children.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u165	Mr. Tonin, thank you very much. In your procedural proposal, too, you have slightly exceeded the Rules of Procedure and have given a substantive explanation of the Member's previous debate. Thank you for your advice, I will take it into account, although I think Members take my warnings very well. If I have correctly observed, Mr Koražija, do you have another procedural proposal? Let's make it really procedural this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u166	Okay. Now it's going to be procedural if the last one wasn't. The Member of Parliament has stated that we are the Left Coalition. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u167	I still don't understand your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u168	Look, we're not actually a coalition. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u169	For the last time, I would like to remind you that you are drafting procedural proposals by drawing attention to the use of the Rules of Procedure rather than to the substantive debate of Members. Thank you very much. Now we continue the debate. Mr Vojko Starović has the floor and Mr Robert Pavšić should be prepared as the last submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, a fiscal rule has been applied repeatedly in the sense that we stick to it; well, it should. At first, we, I'll say this old old government – I don't feel like a member of anything like that, but we are new, is a new government – being attacked by a coalition agreement, how we break this fiscal rule and what this is going to be like, I don't know, we're going to bring down the country, the country is going to go somewhere. Then we were attacked because we said that some taxes should also be adjusted or the tax system, that is to say, capital should be a little more burdensome, we had the whole pogrom. During this time, since I have been in this National Assembly, we have had a bunch of extraordinary and regular committees for work, family and also a bunch of extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly and regular meetings, where we also deal with some of the laws that my friends have been making since before. This, I would say, is an old policy; when these old laws that have already been rejected appear again in the same text. I don't think that leads to any dialogue. This change that I see in my family right now, just so it doesn't pay off in material or in these matters, but in money and more, and we don't want to increase it, and we don't want to increase that difference 200 euros, we're a little over-compensating and we're not being fair, and that making a fool of ourselves has also been used expressions, not now, but under the previous point. So we face it all the time, and this is some opportunity for some other things to be achieved, not the content itself. But I think we need to be careful, to pay close attention to the content that we have some systemic legislation that covers both the family and the social sectors on several sides, let this be from housing policy, let this be from public health and public education, and let this also be social transfers that ensure some sustainable life for those who fall below the poverty threshold. We don't have to go too far with these things because, in fact, if we're going to put these little things in, we're going to tear down a system that makes sense and keeps water somewhere. We will always insist that when we make changes, we must do so in full. The government has already promised to open things up a few times, and it will do things in full. So again, family policy is not that simple. Apparently, some have no children – I have four, and when my last daughter was born, 18 thousand have been born, now they are born all the time in 20 thousand. So at some point towards the end of the 1990s, 17,000 were born a little over, under 18,000, so something is done, some steps are, the situation is improving, and not everything is as terrible as they say. So that policy, which we have been leading so far, does not matter whether it is led by the right or left governments, something is being achieved. The situation has improved and let us see things improve. I agree with my previous speaker that we need to cooperate better and try to find things, but this is a two-way process, so I would ask the other side to be cooperative and understand some things, that we cannot just accept them ad hoc because we are going to break the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Before taking the floor, the final speaker, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you very much. As a proposaler, you can also come forward during the discussions. It seems to me that it is important, above all, to understand that it has already been said twice that the situation is improving – and I will be corrected by the representatives of the ministry – I think that each year birth is still falling. For a few 10 to 100 births, I think there are fewer births per year. It seems to me that it is necessary to say that we, who would have spoken so clearly, have submitted this law for the first time, because we have seen already, I think, in February the anomalies that are, and the changes that have gone from the previous system to the new system. Before, the cash refund was a few years ago, then back to that package refund that was, I think, somehow ended in 2004. So we wanted our parents to decide for themselves how and for what money they would spend because the money was for children. It was said that housing policy should also be looked at. That's right. Frankly, I have been waiting four years for this housing policy, which would be aimed at encouraging young families. And she's still gone. How much longer? The years go very quickly, you'll see, suddenly it's the end of the term, and you look back and you find half the things haven't been done. However, I went to look again at the few views of my fellow Members. While we have a different view of life, probably from beginning to natural death or whatever, it seems to me that I have to focus here on saying that the birthing of children is a labour force for capital, that we want to force women, with our laws in New Slovenia, to give birth to more than 10,000 children, in order for the country to work. Do you know what's gonna get me on this? Do you know how I feel? When I hear someone being forced, I mean all those poor, exploited surrogate mothers, and I feel like some surrogate mother. It's an exploitation for me! Not if we are trying to give children equal opportunities, equal rights, with some normal family policy. Let's imagine. And I also ask that when we talk about the sanctity of conception and life, we speak respectfully about it. This is not a labour force for capital. This is the capital of the state, of every country. And that's why I asked if I could get the data on what these kids are after 40 years. What kind of capital is this for the country? Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u173	Thank you very much. And a final debater, Mr. Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u174	Thank you very much. This debate will start again, and it is so because we are talking about a very important matter. But I can't get past some of the readings. Mrs Dimic, you were looking at me when you were talking, the only content I was looking at in this direction was from Mr Pojbič, when he explained that there were too few born to work for this country later on, for this system. That's the only thing I understood, and maybe I misunderstood him so I wouldn't challenge a replica. Then we were also challenged to have the coalition act defensively – but not the opposition? I mean, it's the same as that saying that a hawk's a hawk, that a sparrow has big eyes. Please, this really isn't going together. It should be pointed out that the rate of birth in Slovenia has fallen in the past despite improvements in family policy, which only confirmed the results of research that have been found negligiblely small for decades, if any impact of individual family policies, especially maternity leave and child birth allowances. There has never been any mention of a more lasting positive impact of any family policy action on the rate of birth. While this raises the question whether this rate would not be even lower if it were not, it is considered that, although family policy measures have a difficult impact on decision-making for children, they are essential to preserve the quality of life of families and children as well. And we probably all agree here. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities organised a professional consultation with the RS Institute of Social Protection last June in Slovenia, where research has shown that people choose to have a child because they want to have one, and family policy measures have a very limited impact on decision-making. Foreign research also shows that measures which, however, may have a positive impact on fertility rates, in particular measures to harmonise work and family life. Family policy measures should therefore support the coordination of these two, i.e. professions and families. What is the birth rate today in Slovenia? It's low. The real question is not where we're going to take it from, if we look at the fiscal rule, but what we're going to get for it. But don't get me wrong, for anyone who receives a gift from a country or a local community at the birth of a new child, this is more than welcome regardless of their social situation. If it's worse, it's even better, because they probably could use it even better. It is true that children and families should be encouraged, but the question is how. With this law – we would get something, but if I were to express myself a little more graphically again, it would be spitting into the sea, and the expectation that it would then be due to this tide. He won't. What do we do to promote family politics? As soon as possible, by making young people's own way, and by speeding up their employment. So housing policy is very important, Mrs Dimic has highlighted it, and the labour market. We have heard before that young people are leaving Slovenia to work. Why? Because the labour market in Slovenia is not responding and wages for what young people are doing are too low. Not even if they're at the beginning. Then they talk seriously not about the starting salary, but only about the minimum wage. The least they will get is because they are young, although they can be highly qualified, very good and – happy about them. So stability is needed. 500 euros won't make it any higher. When we look at data from 1960 — to where I focused in my research — in 1960, birth in Slovenia was 2.34, that is, one family of 2.34 children, in 1980 2.06 children per family, in 2003 1.2 children per family, and this was the lowest birth rate from 1960 to last year, when it says that it is 1.62 children per family. Would your proposal for a law have any effect? I don't think so. It would only have an effect in what I said earlier — to make it easier for every young family to have at least this first highest cost. Even with the previous law that we've discussed here, I've mentioned something, and I'm going to do it again. Your serial law enforcement is your model. I don't mind it, it's legitimate, it's great, it opens up debates, we open up important topics – but it's transparent. But we can't disagree here. And these are subjects that are heartbreaking. It's hard for me to keep looking the ugly one who doesn't want to confirm your marriage right now. If I'm the ugly one, I'll be the ugly one. One more thing, we've got the migrants back inside. I mean, it's totally unworthy again. Mr Reberšek, directly to you – I will not use the word hate speech because we abuse it too often in politics – it is not a problem in a different opinion, the problem is that you hate me because of my different opinion. I've pointed out it a lot and I'll be here again, we're not political enemies, we're political opponents. I love you. Yeah. Okay. [[advertising from the hall]] Not too much, yeah. [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] That no one would think of anything. So, I hope that we will continue at this pace as we begin, given that I see that you have a great brain trust, a lot of desire, because I feel that it is not just that clear thing here, but a sincere desire to create a better environment for everyone. You'll always have my support here. But this time I'm gonna be the ugly one again. We cannot support this, because, for the first time, I do not see great consequences, although I would like to give each of the newborns 500 euros, as soon as it brings on the world to make it easier for his parents. But I have to take a responsible look at the whole picture. Not just because of the fiscal rule, but because of the whole system. Problems are systemic, and solutions must be systemic. We can't change one valve in the car now, because if we mess it up, the whole car can stop working. It's such a piece, worth a few cents. And there's also this danger that the whole system could collapse, which is clear and real, after all. Let me finish with one more thing, and I'm going to use the rules of procedure a little bit. Congratulations, Ilka Stuhtec, on her eighth victory in Val Gardena. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for a great conclusion. The proposer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Robert, you have before you the number of births after years. If you look at 2008 – I think the legislation came into force in 2007, but – in 2008 the number of births drops out and is higher until 2012 when after the abolition of free kindergartens for the second and further children begins to fall again. So we wanted to correct this issue in Novi Slovenija with a proposal on kindergartens, in truth, as soon as it was possible, as soon as we assessed that the state budget could be able to do so as soon as recovery started. It seems to me that you have discussed this well and I am grateful for your debate. Your conclusion is true, people have children because they want to have them is true, but family policy is the one that gives all these children equal opportunities or should give them whether they have 3, 4, 5 more brothers, sisters or only one. This is the purpose of family policy. And when we realize that, I am sure that we will be able to take different measures, I will say more concretely, even in the area of family policy. It seems to me to say that our proposal for a law would not have such a big effect — it would have had them. I'd have 'em because there'd be a greater equality between all children. This would bring, and it seems to me that this is crucial, and our intention today's bill was to do so. But it's true, but you pointed out one part that I didn't touch today. There is also a need to regulate the labour market. And here, I'm going to say, I may already be a voice in the desert because they know, in the ministry I've known some for quite some time, for several years we've been meeting on the labour committees, the family I think we need to set up a labour market also in order to give young moms a better chance or greater security. [[…]] After all the research, this is when I will have a family, what this family will be like, how many this family will be, very much, and in recent years at all, how much it will depend on the labour market or employment. If I were to admit that this is very important for the country – I speak long-term again, because we have to work long-term here – a measure that would protect such young mothers in order to make it easier for them to return to the labour market when they decide for the family. However, unfortunately, this has not been heard in the last six years. I'm sorry to see you. But we have recognized that we have problems in hiring young people, and we have done some positive discrimination there, there are some benefits being said, and that we have problems with older people over 55 years of age and we have also given some encouragement to employers there. But we're forgetting this important segment. And when I was on one of the committees -- maybe a committee, maybe two years ago, I think 14 days, three weeks -- I asked for this very purpose when we were talking about financial social assistance, in what or what situation we are women in with money social assistance. At that time, the Secretary of State said that the largest number of recipients of financial assistance was women, aged 18 to 36. What does that mean? This means that it is easy for a woman, a young woman, when deciding on a family, to have more difficult access to the labour market and then depend on financial social assistance. From this we can see that something has to be done to protect these women with some positive discrimination, to make it easier for them to decide that they can, I will say – but freely decide that we understand each other – to enter the labour market more easily and go on maternity leave and back to the labour market and so on. That this tribulation will not be so great as to prevent them. I think that this information – the Secretary of State will be able to confirm – clearly enough to say that we really fear women for our existence, for our own existence, we want to earn our own wages, and at the same time we want some to be possible mothers. I think it's a good thing we're doing this. However, I would be happy if we could work together as I said — perhaps not in the previous marriage — just as the law on long - term care needs to be done together. This is another area, but I have to add it because I really want this cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thank you very much, proposer. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate, which gives us the word of a representative of the Government and of a proposer, so first of all I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mrs Breda Boznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the debate on fertility, I would like to provide some basic data: in Slovenia the birth rate has been declining since the first half of the 1980s, the lowest birth rate in Slovenia is recorded in 2003 of 1.20, and since then it has been possible to see a trend of slow increase in birth rates, which is 1.62 in 2017, which ranks us on the average of the Member States of the European Union. Demographic trends in Slovenia are fully consistent with trends in almost all of Europe, so imputing the causes of low fertility to social or family policies or even the absence of the latter is unproductive and can even harm the search for effective solutions. Slovenia has a very good social and family policy, which is reflected in the low risk of poverty and social exclusion and in the high quality of life of children and families. With regard to the deletion of the paragraph by which aid is granted in the form of charity at the birth of a child, we believe that, in order to ensure the earmarked use of funds from the budget, the payment of the child-bearing assistance shall be introduced in the form of charity that can be spent on children's equipment, child needs, child food and so on. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u179	Go ahead, Madam Secretary. Could I have your attention in the hall, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Eligible parents will be able to choose child supplies worth €280 from selected stakeholders, and they will be able to make purchases with more than €280. Aid at the birth of a child is essentially a universal right for parents of all newborns regardless of the material situation of the family, since in this way they spend the resources for the purpose for which they actually belong to their parents. The introduction of this right has been laid down in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which entered into force 17. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In view of the delay in the envisaged adoption of the proposed amendment of the Law and the introduction of an automatic IT calculation in the exercise of annual rights from public funds and the envisaged reorganisation of social work centres requiring a comprehensive upgrade of the information system, the good offices provision shall apply on 1 January 2020 when information support is also available for this right. The applicants also argue that the ratio between the lower, the three-child families and the higher, the four- or more-child families is unfair, as a family with three children receives a higher amount of allowance for a large family per child – that is, EUR 132 per child – than a family with five children, where 96 euros per child comes, or a family with seven children, where they receive 68 euros per child. It should be pointed out that the State already rewards, if I may put it this way, any next child, since the amount of the child allowance is higher for the second child than for the first child, for the third and subsequent children than for the second child. An allowance for a large family is an annual allowance intended for a family with at least three children, so that large families, because they have more children, do not deteriorate the material position. If we view the allowance for a large family as an allowance for an individual child, we could say that it is the most unfair for families with one or two children who do not actually receive it. However, families with at least four children also have many other benefits, which I will list below. In particular: a lower annual duty of 50 % of the annual passenger car duty; a family with at least four children up to 18 years of age owned or used by a vehicle classified as second toll class B is entitled, in the case of the purchase of an annual vignette for that vehicle, to one-year-old assistance in the amount of the difference between the cheaper and the more expensive vignette; a tax relief for dependent children is gradually increasing, for example, for the first child of 2 000 436.92 euros; and for the fourth dependent child of 6 thousand 187.85 euros; the right to pay contributions when one of the parents leaves the labour market for protection and care of at least four children. Let me conclude with the position of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which is clearly both at home and abroad, that the Republic of Slovenia has an extremely effective and one of the best family policies in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to propose now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. It seems to me that talking about the benefits the family has, you gave the case with four children, maybe I was referring to this during my debate, currently in Slovenia Of course I would like what I asked you here: What does a family with four children in 10, 20, 40 years? What does that mean? What does the four additional contributors to the pension fund mean for the calculation of the state pension allowance? I am sure that the country has more benefit from more than single families than possible, because in fact this, I will say, evolutionary circle and also circle, which follows all that there are four, that there is more consumption and that these four pay more and so on, lead us not to talk about the benefits that someone has, but to look for some common opportunities and, of course, to the benefit of children in particular. We really came from this address. However, I see that you have information, unfortunately I do not have this list, but I do remember it very well because we had a similar debate just once on the subject of free kindergarten when you were talking about what kind of birthing was like, and please confirm, if not, that in 2008, the respected secretary of state that the birth rate bounced away when the law on free kindergartens was passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you very much. You have been given the floor by all the debaters you wanted, but because the time set for the debate remains, I ask you whether you want to discuss the matter further under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Because, yes, I'm opening the application. We have 6 reported debaters, and as the last one she will get the word of a candidate, the first is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Otherwise, I was not registered at the time of the examination of the law, but I applied now when the time was shared mainly because I could not believe the words of the secretary at the Ministry. I don't know where you came from with this confidence, but I think you're hoping too much when you're talking about having one of the most orderly family policies in the world. I tell you from the field that what people think is completely different from what you say. And you're damn confident, a little too much for what's going on in this country. Some things, when there was a debate and when we keep talking, some things aren't systemic, where we're going to take where we're going to take them – see, for once in this country we have to decide what the priorities are. The priorities are those that we must also set for us to make progress as a society in the future. Without children, we'll be gone. Is that our goal or not? It is very important for the Slovenian Democratic Party and myself personally that we do everything, even the least possible solution, in order to make progress as far as our birth and decision is concerned for the greater number of children in families. I really appreciate those who have more children. I decided only one, because I know what all of this brings, and not least, what all of these families have to give up, what parents have to give up so that they can support such large families. On the other hand, we constantly look for excuses to prevent these families from enjoying a better life. Sometimes I feel like there is no desire to have more children in Slovenia than it is something traditional, something too conservative and it does not belong in some modern time. But it's not like that. We are like a country one of the oldest countries in the world. That's what we are, Mr. Secretary of State. One of the oldest countries in the world. And it's certainly important that we take every step we can take at birth. Now let me stop at concrete solutions. Universal right to assistance in the form of a remittance — what is so bad about it? Why are parents now obliged to take some packages, where something is determined in them, or they must take something in the form of these so - called vouchers. Why do we not allow them to make use of these funds for what they believe is most important for their child? All I see here is the benefit. Why do we not leave such a decision to our parents? I do not understand that every matter must be affected by the state, including what it will receive at birth or what the family will have. All I see here is positive. Raising a Newborn — Is this not something positive? See, many congregations decide to provide some form of assistance at the birth of children in their congregation. Such and different forms of assistance or incentives, just because they see the benefits and the need. It was said that it was not said that this would increase fertility. True, it is not said, but last but not least, since those who have more children today, too, should be rewarded to show that we care and that such a measure is only in a positive society. These kids are going to grow up someday, they're going to be taxpayers, they're going to take care of our elders, they're going to take care of our pension system, and so on. I mean, I really only see positive things here. And as for the addition to large families, let us once encourage in this country, let us look for those solutions and ways to do something good, not just what [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Franz Breznik has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u186	The outcome at the end, as Mr Pavšič said: we would support this, we are trying, but still, look, we consider you to be political opponents. Mr Pavšič, before I begin to debate, for me you are all political competition, no one is an enemy and an opponent, I am a democrat. For you, however, we are really political opponents — that is a very strange word and let people think of themselves. Now look at this session. Proposal for a Home Supplement Act – you will not be supported. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Kindergartens, a lower, slightly lower price for kindergartens to come a little closer to these parents – of course you will not support. A proposal for a law amending the Income Act, where we have raised at least EUR 3 000 500 and the income scale by 2% – of course you will not support. The proposal for a law on the amendment of the Construction Law, where instead of the exemption for this use permit, which costs the family thousands of euros, of course you will not support. The Cross-border Service Implementation Act, where companies working in foreign markets in Austria today would reduce the process only in order to be able to employ more – no, you will not support. And now for changes to the Parental Protection and Family Receipts Act. See the argument whether a policy works or not. In 2003, I think the secretary of state said nicely, it was the lowest birth, we reached that year about 17,000 and a few children. [[…]] What did the first Yanshe government do? We have taken a number of measures: help with the first apartment, free kindergarten for the second child, instant lunch and lunch at school and so on. What's the matter? It's been growing ever since. And it's starting to grow since 2008, and the number of births to 20,000 is coming up right away, and it's been holding until 2014. About this time, 25 000 additional citizens were born in that country. And you're saying that the measures don't take, that it's nobody's money. Look, there's evidence that these measures were taken. It's evidence. And I don't know, even in socialism, they said that man is our greatest wealth — indeed man is the greatest wealth. Look at the demographics. Every fifth citizen of the Republic of Slovenia has been over 65 years old since 2015. That's scary information! This demographic is also shown in the budget, of course. There are so many fewer working people, respected colleagues. And even of these most ambitious young people, they are active in such government policies abroad to the functions where they are most often involved. So continue, if we look even more closely, at the time of the greatest technological and social changes, how will the old population react? Your mouth is full of digitization, the fourth industrial revolution, the last government we've heard about. Just a fellow Koprivnikar, Minister – here, he was sitting right there, now I think he has a criminal complaint – the fourth industrial revolution was only in his pocket; he and BTC were in Mermal. These were the stories of the Great Fourth Industrial Revolution. And now look at what we've suggested, exactly the measures that this society needs most to stimulate, to raise birthrates, to reduce the catastrophic demographic picture – no, no, no. What was the motto of the previous government for the last two years? Only the number of employees in the public sector. In a year and a half 10,000 more people. In a year and a half, respected colleagues and colleagues. Catastrophe! So, whatever it is against this country, this left-wing government, or even more left-handed than it was before, will be carried out. This is anti-Slovakia politics, and this is frightening. In addition to all these measures, for 2019 they have an additional €270 million higher expenditure than the fiscal rule allows, and this is also discussed by the Fiscal Council and the President of the Fiscal Council is literally holding his head. And they don't even call them to the Finance Committee. This is one “super” policy and we can say the way to suicide, both fiscal or financial as well, according to this law, demographic. Dear colleagues, you now have a mirror here. Answer me and tell me I'm wrong to see you. Of course, I will support the law myself, because I think it is important, I think it will show great results or at least some of these results and that we may have a few years from now if we support it, a few new births. And that's what I think is welcome for the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. First of all, I'd like to comfort my respectable colleague Robert Pavšić. My dear fellow, you are nothing ugly. You are a precious person, surely loved, just as we are all loved, especially within families we are most loved. And I wouldn't, at least at this point I wouldn't say we're political opponents. If we're going to pretend to be opponents in our families, then we're not going to get far. We are, of course, political competitors, as colleague Breznik said. Normally, because we're kind of in a democratic space. But what you've estimated for yourself is probably purely human. A person's conscience burns when he doesn't support good solutions. And how we would have applauded that from the heart of Ilko Štuhec if we had pressed the law a few hours ago when we wanted more private capital, not public private capital for sport. Who are the sponsors of Ilka Stuhtec? [[advertising from the hall]] Aha, Milka, I thought the Ministry of Sports. Oh, Milka, yes, Milka is one other company, but she has a sense of Slovenian sport. [[…]] And why don't you make me another bottle of nipple? Why don't we make it with more money, more donors, and maybe there'll be some Gorenica among the sponsors. But let's leave it at that. We're in the family now. For so long, we have been in Parliament, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, that we understand and know and firmly believe that only by these measures can we not improve our naturality. That's a fact. The Ministry also has calculations because these are mathematical models, and we have listened to various professors who very clearly told us that if by 2050, this is in 30 years, the trend of decline will not stop, then the end with the Slovenian nation. I guess that's when we get under some critical mass when we just can't get back together anymore. Well, I'm sure it won't be my problem anymore, but today, when I'm here in a position of responsibility, I have to remind myself, even more, I have to propose solutions that this precious nation, which somehow pushed itself through the millennium and had a thousand-year dream of coming to its country now that it has it, will not die. Ladies and gentlemen, when we Slovenians empty space here, because we are not confident enough, it will be inhabited very quickly by some other peoples who speak foreign languages and cultivate foreign religion and foreign culture. And I have to say this right now in Cankar's year. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to encourage in this and other way, including rhetoric, not only through financial measures, with rhetoric, to create a good climate for a culture of life if you want. It's a culture of life, that's what it's all about. I can't believe it. I can't believe I live in a country where some commercial for some institution is banned. For the institution that cultivates the culture of life. So it's only a matter of time before there's something else on that bus. So far, it's been written by the Bureau of Living, but now it's probably gonna be written, I don't know, the Institute of the Dead, or whatever it says, I don't know. This is about us promoting a culture of life. That's what this is about. There's not enough of that. We may make the most of our friendly rhetoric here at this temple of democracy to create a better state of the spirit, and that is what this is about. That there won't be so much opposition, even more, and it looks from day to day more, hatred. This is my key concern, which actually puts me in the middle of the day and at night, and I can't find a solution on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u189	Thank you. Next up is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support the New Slovenia Act because I think it is good and is worth supporting. There were quite a few inaccurate data, namely that changes and positive family policies do not affect the number of births. That's not what the data says. In 1973, we had 29 thousand,548 births, in 1990, 22 thousand,368, and since then, our births have been declining, so that in 2004 we landed at a low rate of 18,000 or 17 thousand births. A smart policy, a serious government, when it detects such a trend, it goes ahead and tries to do something. We then took a lot of family policy measures – let me remind you, this was the time of Janša's government – to help large families, other children free of charge in kindergarten, subsidy to solve the first housing problem, lunch, lunch for students in school, raise scholarships, raise children's allowances. And the number began to rise. I'm not gonna say it's just because of this, but I'm sure it's also because of this. So, buddy, if things weren't connected, we always have a measure and then we have a consequence. We've also seen this in some wrong decisions, negative consequences, but here, thank God, they were positive. And that's when the number of births starts to rise by the year, as we found out, 2012 when we're 21 000 938. And that's when something happens? The number of births is starting to fall again. The smart government would act immediately, analyse why this happened, and take action. You didn't have a problem pressing the minimum wage key for a few 10 euros, and here you have a problem. You won't have a problem with pressing the key for several state secretaries, which will also stand for something, there won't be a problem, here, for the kids, but there's a problem. Dude, you said we had so many ideas. Do you know why? Because we didn't fall into Parliament yesterday, but we've been here for a while and we've been seriously dealing with things that are a problem in this country for years. We're analyzing things. We're preparing measures. Over the past four years, we have only heard about analysing what needs to be done. The government of SMC, we had no strategy for family policy, the last of which was, as I said, during the Janša government 2004-2008. In the following words, Secretary of State, how much and what measures have you taken to raise fertility? Name a measure, I don't remember it. As far as I know, you're a representative of SMC, at least on their list you've run, I assume you're from their quota, and you've probably been monitoring what's going on for four years. We have not seen any measures of family policy, despite the fact that our birth rate has fallen, despite the fact that young people have gone abroad and so on, and despite the high economic growth in 2017, when it was promised that if economic growth is to occur, some measures will be released. We're going to relax something now with January 1st, and that's all. You have said what all the state does, rewards, see, something indeed the state does, but of course not give the state, not you, Madam Secretary of State, but divide from the taxes that we have collected from people, so that this is our common money, not yours and not give the country. And another problem, indeed, is the state, but unlike Austria, our kindergartens are, say, very expensive, compared to Austria or some other country. So we take the lady on one side and the lady on the other. I listed some of the measures taken by the government of Janez Janša at the time. Since then, we have not had any smart family strategy, everything has always been a bit succinct or even frozen by some coordination, while we have irritated everything, not our government, but the government of Alenka Bratušek, has raised VAT. This is more expensive for everyone, even for children and families. And a whole bunch of things that just seemed negative, not positive. That is why today we have the trend we have – 20 thousand 241 births in 2017. And births are falling. Now we must decide whether to do something or wait for a government that will have a little more obedience and a little more sense to literally preserve the nation. We have organized no idea how many consultations on the topic of demographic image and how bad is the demographic picture of Slovenia. Smart policy must act and do something.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u192	Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! Today we have been sitting here all day in Parliament, discussing some things that are intended for people in particular. What the coalition likes to talk about — people. We're talking about changes in laws that would contribute to a lot of good. We're probably admitting it to each other for as long as we're here. We talked about the household allowance, we talked about parental protection and family benefits about changes to the kindergarten law. The new Slovenia has actually prepared well here and has already been told completely everything. I think it's a shame that we're still talking about this for a long time. If someone didn't understand what the proponents and everyone else were talking about, then I really don't know why we're wasting our time. There have been many reasons and many excuses why the government does not support this, why the coalition, this six, will not support it. So I'm just wondering where all these reasons why this is all coming from, how much energy has to be invested, so that with some arguments you can reject such good suggestions. Really, I'm just wondering. At the end of the day, that I will not waste any more precious time, because we still have a lot of work to do, and it will probably be a late hour when we leave this temple of democracy, I would congratulate or congratulate for the first time, too, Ilka Štuhec and Ivi Dimic, who was actually trying and she said everything she could say, from the heart was a woman speaking, a fellow Member. In the end, however, I must congratulate the six-year-old coalition and representatives of the government, truly sincere congratulations on the originality of searching for reasons that, as if drawn from a vein, are reasons for not accepting the proposed changes for people, as it is today called. All congratulations so you can get so much energy. And once again, congratulations to Ivy Dimic for all we've heard. I will support all these proposals that are intended for the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. As last reported, Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you very much to the fellow Members you discussed today, even for the personal congratulations she has touched on me. This is the first time I've had this experience in the National Assembly, but look, man sometimes experiences something for the first time. I would also like to conclude today's session in such a tone. I would like to see, however, whether 280 euro child support is sufficient and can be managed voluntarily by parents. We know that the price of milk from the supplier, from the supplier to the provider, is different, that the price of baby diapers from the provider to the provider is different, that the equipment is different. Also, the way you buy is different from the way you bought it eight, ten years ago, and now it's all going online. That, too. Nevertheless, I expect the government to take this into account and leave a cash refund. The fact is, more people are consumed, but more are created. That's why I think we have to look this way. Here is one such beautiful thought, which I will say purely, I will take: If it were me, priority number one would undoubtedly be the defence of human life, because without life there is no employment or social work, no housing and no health care and no budget. That's what we're talking about. We need to watch in the long run, see what happens and what happens in 10, 20, 30, 40 years. However, let me conclude by bringing into the National Assembly today scouts of Bethlehem light, light of peace, with a password: Share the flame, light the peace. I wish we could call it off, but I have to read: "This year's charity is going under the password: We share a flame, we light peace. Such funds will be allocated to the Vincentia charity centre, the Mirenski Grad Family Centre, which helps children or families in distress, and to social projects that will be carried out by scouts and scouts in the summer of 2019." So it seems to me that the Ministry of Labour is also in place here for the end: Are families in distress, and is it appropriate for us to gather? I'm glad that people are generous to give, but first and foremost it's the country that has to help families in distress. I have read the story of the seven children's father's distress, and it has already been published on the website, and it seems to me that it is also right for the Ministry to respond to what kind of citizens it has and what kind of hardships it has in it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u195	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday 19 December, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on the amendment of the garden laws. The draft law was tabled by the Group of 7 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members with the first-signed Joseph Horvat requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! The demographic picture of Slovenia is extremely poor, one of the worst in the European Union. This is what the Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development regularly reminds us of. The normal functioning of the country or all of its subsystems would require around 30,000 births in the coming years, but we are currently not reaching the number of 20,000, and the trend is declining. The extremely low fertility and consequent ageing of the population are, according to the European Commission, one of the biggest social and economic challenges facing Europe in the 21st century. It concerns all Member States and most of the policy areas of the European Union. In 2025, more than 20% of the European population will be over 65 years of age, and in particular the number of elderly people aged 80 and over will increase. In the previous mandate, the government released a number of austerity measures while at the same time increasing budgetary expenditure in a number of areas. Minimum old-age pensions have risen, they have agreed to raise the salaries of public servants and, last but not least, the minimum salaries have increased. From the point of view of citizens, all this is good, and we are assessing that the release of austerity measures should start with families that have really ensured our future. However, the current government had already taken families by surprise when it wanted to withdraw a number of family and social benefits by means of the law on the implementation of the budget. After strong opposition to the public, the measures, thank God, have been eased, but it still intends to save 16 million euros at the expense of the socially weak. The New Slovenia Group proposes to reintroduce free kindergarten for the second and all subsequent children who are simultaneously involved in kindergarten. We know this solution, it was introduced in 2008. It was an emissary law. The measure was already in force by 2012 and had a beneficial impact on the family life of beneficiaries. The time after the introduction of justice according to Umarje also coincided with the highest birth rate in Slovenia in the last ten years. The proposed measure would allow parents much easier coordination of family and professional life, make families financially and organisationally burdensome, increase participation in kindergartens without the additional financial burden of the municipalities, and consequently pursue the objective of ensuring better demographic trends than we have seen in today and in recent years. Dear colleagues from all parliamentary groups, we have received a number of expressions of support from families, regardless of the political definition, in the public presentation of our proposal. I invite you to come together and take a small solution, which will mean a lot to many families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you very much, proposer. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Martini Vuk, State Secretary, for the opening presentation of the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! As it was said, according to the applicant, due to the proposed additional measures, the additional benefits of paying parents for kindergartens will improve the socio-economic situation of families and, as a result, parents should therefore decide on the birth of several children, which is intended to improve the demographic picture of the Republic of Slovenia. The measure that would have been introduced would mean for parents who have two or more children in kindergarten to set a lower price for an older child than the currently subsidised price, while for the second and subsequent children payments would be exempt. The means to provide these proposed benefits are expected to be provided from the state budget and it is estimated that around €21.5 million should be provided in the state budget. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in terms of improving the quality of life of families, is also one of the basic tasks of kindergarteners, of course, agrees and supports the idea of burdening parents with regard to the payment of kindergartens. That is why, at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in this mandate, there is also an improvement in the financial accessibility of kindergartens for parents, but the Government believes that this issue needs to be addressed in a different way, in particular in agreement with all stakeholders, and from a financial point of view are the main stakeholders here. The area of pre-school education is one of the systems in the Republic of Slovenia that have a significant impact on the position of an individual in society. However, according to the results of several studies, a pre-school child receiving quality pre-school education has a positive impact on individual areas of child development and learning. Increasing the proportion of children of all ages involved in kindergarten is one of the key indicators of the effectiveness of the preschool system in each country. In this area, we can be very proud of the growing number of children involved in Slovenia, that we are very close to the final goal of the number of children involved, as well as to the quality of our kindergartens. The benefits for parents who had two or more children in kindergarten at the same time, as has already been said, have already been in force, so the proposed measures have already been in force since 1. 9. 2008 to 1. Seven. 2012 and these measures had already received a number of illogical and unequal treatment of parents in relation to the same income situation of families. Parents with the same material status who had two or more children in kindergarten paid less when compared to parents who had only one child in kindergarten, if we add up the total payment for all children together compared to one child. It was therefore necessary to amend such arrangements and establish an equal position of parents in the payment of kindergartens, which means that the re-implementation of the same measure would be inappropriate. I would also like to draw attention to the position of the Court of Auditors in 13. 12. 2010 which assessed that the introduction of parental co-financing for another child did not improve the financial accessibility of pre-school education to those parents who have only one pre-school child or who can have more children, but because of excessive age differences they cannot be included in kindergarten at the same time, and the Court of Auditors therefore concluded that the implementation of the measures described did not guarantee equal treatment for parents and their children. And since I mentioned earlier that one of the key stakeholders — the municipalities — is because of our arrangement that those who finance preschool education in addition to paying their parents and transferring the country were, of course, the pressure of parents on kindergartens increased greatly when these measures were introduced, and there was a tremendous shortage of free cities. Since then, municipalities have taken huge steps, invested a lot in new capacities and increased the number of free places in kindergartens, but we must not overlook that today's environments in Slovenia are facing a lack of free places in kindergartens, so a sudden measure that would significantly increase the number of new ones involved in kindergarten would once again increase, extend waiting lists, cause poor will and very significantly burden the financial community, so we must not let them go. As already introduced, the Government or our ministry, on the basis of all circumstances, including positive cases from abroad, will make proposals which, subject to all conditions and stakeholders, will enable parents to be burdened with payments and achieve the final objective that we have also set out in the coalition agreement, this is a free kindergarten for all children. And for all these reasons, we propose that you do not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u199	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Matthew Tonin to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u200	Dear Members and Members! The standard of child protection in Slovenia is certainly envious, at a high level. One of the positive features Slovenia received when it joined the European Union is that we have established very high standards in kindergartens in this accession process. Some even say too high, I don't agree with them. However, I claim responsible from experience because both my sisters are educators, and when they come to different exchanges around the world, our standards in kindergartens are even higher than in Scandinavian countries. At least we're at the top of something. And if anything, then we're definitely at the top, as far as child protection is concerned. In this place, thanks are also given to all educators and assistants who do their work day after day for the purpose of rearing, rearing, and rearing their children, and that parents can do their work without distraction. It is certainly an extraordinary work, an important work, and in this light it should be repeatedly asked whether the work of assistants is properly valued, given that their washing machines are low and their work is extremely important. The involvement of children in kindergarten is important for their social and mental development. As a result, each developed country aims to ensure that children are as high as possible. According to the latest data, the involvement of Slovenian children is 80%, and the European Union's goal is 95% inclusive. There are still some work ahead of us, a few more ways to reach this goal. And of course, the thing that reduces our involvement is certainly quite high costs. The costs are also high because of the high standards we have in kindergartens and which I have already talked about before. And in order to relieve parents of these high costs in kindergartens, in New Slovenia we propose to amend the law to exempt payment of the payment of the kindergarten for the second, third and every next child that parents have at the same time in kindergarten. However, for the first, oldest child, the payment would be reduced by 1 payment grade. That's the basis, that's the essence of our proposal. Believe me, the most burdensome and most pressing in kindergarten is especially in middle school. Our social policy is relatively generous and also good when it comes to parents with very low incomes and incomes. These cases are well taken care of, since the country or congregations are largely covered by the cost of kindergartening. Very quickly, however, the middle class, especially if the two parents have an average salary, perhaps some euro over, encounters that the cost of kindergarten at the moment is 200, 300, maybe more euros. And this represents a huge, really big burden for all parents who have children involved in kindergarten. And from this point of view, of course, it makes sense to think about reducing pressure on parents in this part. And in this sense, this law is also written. That is why I expect all those parties that you consider to be advanced in New Slovenia to be an advanced customer, and therefore we encourage the involvement of children in kindergarten to do so also with the pressure on the button to support this law so that as many parents as possible can send their children to kindergarten. The Secretary of State, and also in the Government's opinion, has been exposed to some evidence of this law, which highlights a similar standard that we had by 2012, although everyone recognises the positive effects of this standard. The fact that the other child was in kindergarten for free and each of the following affected the fact that the involvement of children in kindergartens was greatly increased. And not least, however you wish, state statistics show that fertility was at the highest level at the time. So we can come to a very simple conclusion that this measure obviously worked and would apply in the future. However, the findings were that there was supposed to be discrimination between parents who had multiple children involved in kindergartens at the same time, because those who were involved at the same time were considered to be second, third and each other free of charge, whereas parents who had a difference between children were so large that they were not all at the same time in kindergarten, but this measure did not work. But this thing can easily be fixed, solved. Even in this law, the word that children are involved at the same time is deleted, and then there is no problem. This means that parents will always think of each other as the third child, no matter when they send him to kindergarten for free. So this problem, which the Secretary of State has pointed out, can be addressed and is also in the spirit of what the coalition is supposed to advocate, that child protection should also be free of charge. It was then mentioned that the problem is also that it is discriminated against between parents who have only one child and those who have more because those who have only one benefit not to be second, third and each next free, but must pay for one in full. I refer here to positive discrimination against family policy. It seems important to me that the country, when it positively discriminates against families with multiple children, in some ways also reports that it wants and therefore gives benefits and ratings to families with multiple children. And I don't see anything at all in this. Since the proposed law is, of course, in the spirit of the coalition agreement, because the proposed law is in the spirit of removing all obstacles, that young people do not decide for more children because it is in the spirit of facing negative demographic trends, I expect broad support here. Above all, I expect the support of those who are very often shown in the public that they have a social sense that they have a feeling for people, because in this particular law, they will be able to demonstrate this by concrete actions. Dialogue, cooperation – it has been repeatedly mentioned today that if there had been more discussion and more cooperation between the two parties, between the coalition of six parties and between the opposition, there would have been much less tension, much less conflict in that country. And this could move this country faster. And here I agree with Mr Starović, who said that dialogue requires two-way communication for cooperation. It's an absolute correct conclusion. And to look at these things, we need to operate on concrete facts. In this mandate, the opposition in particular took the initiative in the legislative field. If you count in all these months how many opposition laws there were and how many government laws there were, you can see that the opposition is leading strongly. But this is not essential, nor does it matter at the final stage. In the end, it is crucial how many laws have been passed. Because I agree that cooperation is crucial if bilateral communication is. I asked our professional colleagues if they can verify how many times Nova Slovenije, the New Slovenia Group supported coalition laws in this mandate. And they told me that in this mandate we supported a coalition law, the Income Act, and the number of laws proposed by the coalition did not conflict. So the result, if I express myself in a slightly more sporting spirit, because today we have repeatedly used sports comparisons, is the result of 1 New Slovenia : 0 coalition. So, I would like to see a little more proportionality and equality put in place for the purposes of cooperation and mutually beneficial action. I would be happy if this result were at least 1 : 1, not 1 : 0, because if it were 1 :1, then it would appear that in at least one part of this coalition is moving away from the old bloc policy to reject everything that comes from the opposition. And today, with this Kindergarten Act, he has the ideal opportunity to do so and thus, in particular, to help parents, young families who have more children in kindergartens, to relieve them of their burdens and perhaps to encourage them to make decisions about any more children.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u202	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would say a little bit about the fact that the opposition and the position are not cooperating. I really don't want this role that Mr Matthew Tonin started, that we never objected to anything. Who started this coalition: the opposition? You're the one who started it. So, but the thing is, how do you approach solving the problem? [[…]] Now, for example, this proposal that we now have before us has been tabled by the party for the second time exactly the same. And as mayor, I'll tell you why I can't agree to that. And also the Desus Group is a social party, as you have already drawn my balls, and it is certainly in our best interest to take care of equality from kindergarten to the elderly to all the same laws. So I'm going to read this a little bit now, what I wrote, and then I'm going to add something. Let me begin by saying that in the Desus Group we do not oppose the idea that families will receive more positive measures in terms of financial incentives in all areas related to children. Concern for the fertility and improvement of demographic forecasts is also our concern, believe me, but any changes to measures must be linked to a just and financially acceptable structure. We have already discussed the benefits for parents who would have two or more children involved in kindergarten at the same time as this bill, namely, that they are exempt from payment for younger children and that they pay one lower price for the elderly, in the previous term. The same applicants have already tabled a proposal for a law amending the Law on Kindergartens with the same content as we are considering today. At the meeting of the National Assembly in March 2017, it was decided that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. This regulation has also existed in our legal order, as we said, in the years 2008-2012. In fact, as the mayor of that time, I tell you that kindergarten pays the local community 100%, and in primary school pays only above standard, it is said that everything that happens in kindergarten with payments, with parents, with these rates paid by individual parents according to their social status, the difference always covers the municipality. That is why we have already sought and cared for the mayors in all these mandates, as is our goal in our coalition to reach free kindergarten for all children in the long term. This will be fair and equal for all, regardless of social status. In practice, it has proved to be an unequal treatment between parents who have one child and those who have more. Parents with the same material status who had two or more children in kindergarten paid less than parents with one child compared to parents who had only one child in kindergarten, which is, of course, extremely unfair. And also from this point of view, I tell you that there have been a lot of such comments to the local community, that we have resolved this differently. Such arrangements should therefore be corrected and placed in the equal position of parents. Therefore, in the Desus Group, it would be pointless and inappropriate for us to now reintroduce this same regime, which was in the period 2008-2012. However, as an argument in the examination of this proposal, we cannot go beyond the position of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which took place in the audit report, I refer to the accessibility of preschool education in 2010. The Court of Auditors’ assessment was that the introduction of co-financed parental payments for another child did not improve the financial accessibility of pre-school parents who have only one pre-school child or who have more children who cannot be included in kindergarten at the same time due to excessive age differences. The Court of Auditors therefore concluded that the implementation of the measures described did not guarantee equal treatment for parents and their preschool children who had to seek protection outside the formal forms of preschool education. Therefore, personally, as well as the Desus Group, we have always been equal, it is said that we do not deal with measures of injustice to others. Now, I'm not that smart, but in this case, I'm sure if we go back, we're going to do some other wrongs, so I repeat, in the coalition contract it's written that we're for free child protection, which is, I think, also the goal. In view of the statement in the Desus Group, we believe that we need to take a comprehensive approach to the problem, carry out analyses, address spatial issues and prepare solutions to relieve all parents. In our Group of Members, we are committed to adopting solutions that will not discriminate against families with one child or families with more children. At the very least, what we need is the adoption of solutions that have already proved to be ineffective and unfair in practice. Therefore, in the Desus Group, this time too, we will not support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. But I expect, and I will also wish that we would avoid being a coalition, a position on the opposite shores, and I am also prepared, with my colleague Vojko Starović, to talk, to conclude that we will sit together and make some law behind him. In short, given the experience I've had and the experience I've given through life, I have four children myself, so it's not that easy. All that matters to me is that we do not work to change one law of injustice to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, all of them have a nice greeting! First, I must say that in the SDS Group today we listen to the arguments of six coalition parties and representatives of various ministries, which draw arguments from the scars that indicate that they do not have a hearing about family policy in the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, we have heard several times today from representatives of one ministry in particular, how we have a great or one of the best family policies. I am very sorry that these representatives of the Government do not say why such good family policies are so unfavorable and run to other neighbouring countries where family policies are much more favourable. That this law, as well as the previous two laws that speak of family politics, are good, speak at least two very well - known facts. Firstly, the great silence of members of the coalition in the debates and the second argument why these laws are very good and necessary today is the silence of mainstream media that does not report on these important laws for Slovenian families and also for Slovenian children, as we have before us today in the kindergarten law. It is very difficult to listen to the arguments of the representative of the Ministry, and probably also the six coalition parliamentary groups that do not support the law in which it is beautifully written and will be quoted on their own today, "to determine the additional benefits of paying parents for kindergartens, thereby improving the socio-economic situation of families, and parents will therefore decide on the birth of more children, which would improve the demographic picture of the Republic of Slovenia." The coalition is against it. Applicants propose that parents who have two or more children in kindergarten at the same time be given a lower price for an older child than that determined in accordance with the law governing the exercise of rights from public funds, while for younger children payments are exempt. The six-party coalition is against it. The law also proposes that parents pay 50% of the payment for a child who is five years of age who is defined as a reduced wage for kindergarten. The six-party coalition is against it. The coalition of six parties is against, although the proponents say and also represent the government, it is likely that representatives of the coalition will also repeat this opinion, as they write, I quote: "We stress that both actions will enable parents to make family and professional life much easier to reconcile. Families would be financially and organisationally burdened, a lower price measure for the first child and a free kindergarten for younger children had already been in force by 2012 and had a favourable impact on the family life of beneficiaries. The time after the introduction of justice according to Umar also coincided with the highest birth rate in Slovenia in the last ten years." Everyone agrees, and the six-party coalition is against it. Instead of applauding and saying, the debate is not necessary at all, let us wait for the vote tomorrow night and unanimously support the urgently needed amendment of the kindergarten law, but no, six coalition parties will oppose. Because it's clear that we're different here and we have two choices. First, the so-called right wing of Parliament, is the wing that favours families and will support this law, as well as the previous two laws. And we have a middle and left wing that doesn't favor family politics and children. Because, as we see in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, they have been using the same mantras as we have been listening to them since 2014. I quote: “The Government believes that an integrated approach is needed to address this issue and a thorough analysis of the situation is needed before any changes are introduced.” They probably have a customer in all the ministries who comes before them by the opposition, and they say, no, we're going to systematically arrange it, but first we need an analysis of the situation. Moreover, they will then make their own proposals which, subject to all conditions in the coming period, will enable parents to unload their payments for kindergarten and reach their final goal, this is a free kindergarten in our country for all children. In the SDS Group we will welcome this, but we will probably not be able to see it, and this is the reality that awaits us all together. In short, there are also two politicians with this law. One policy of the right wing of the National Assembly, which wants Slovenian families to have a structured relationship, both financially and as little bureaucratic as possible for their activities, for their creation to have as many children as possible to have as many children in Slovenia. And we have a second wing that shows more and more clearly that the Slovenian family is not their priority or even more, interfering with the various objectives of getting as many other people as possible to Slovenia, with as many other children as possible. In short, I know I'm going to be accused again of running a demagogy in the SDS, but we have two options, either Slovenian children or migrants. The future of the vote will be clear. Today we are listening to how some opposition parties are demagogic, populist, but these parties – New Slovenia and today the SDS are proposing the same or similar laws because we have the same or similar concept of action – in favour of family policy. And this is what we have shown or shown in the period 2004-2008, when the almost right government coalition has taken a lot of positive measures in the area of family policy and in the field of children. And then we have a policy from 2013 on, when there are left-wing parties that are dislikable, that change the concept, that changes the concept, what family is, and they adopt laws where they share only here and there certain groups, and they do not want to follow what they themselves say about the opinion. The distinguished Secretary of State, the Government of Mir Cerar and also the Government of Marjan Šarc, have always stressed the need to approach this issue in an integrated manner, and I am interested in what representatives of different ministries have been doing since December 2014. You're just thinking, and on the other hand, you're actually hurting Slovenian families. Then we listen to the debates of members of the coalition about how the financial consequences of these measures are something strange, something that the state budget does not bring. We find it really difficult in the SDS Group to accept the fact that children are told that someone is against the law because the law has financial consequences, and this is said by the Government, who boasts that in these three months she has given half a billion euros to various entities who are willing to do so, and this is said by the Government, who has problems in various areas that cannot collect money lying on the road – NLB, TES, Karavanka tunnel, purchase of military vehicles and so on, because you share money in the bottomless pit, when we have a law that needs 21 million euros a year, and this government six-pointer is against. In short, it is interesting to note that against the parties most loudly shouting in other laws, how they are social and social parties. But when we have a question before us about children and their upbringing in kindergartens, these same socially sensitive people are in words, unsocial in their actions, because they will obviously be today, given that they will repeat the government's opinion against. Much has been said today in previous laws, including how the congregations are burdened by the law, as it is before us, and which has already been amended. Ladies and gentlemen, in the SDS Group, unlike many other parties, we are also active in the local field. There were a number of former mayors among us, some of whom were municipal councillors or were municipal councillors, we all welcomed that action, perhaps one year too quickly, but from 2008, when we took action for a free second child into kindergarten, all the congregations, despite possible concerns about whether they would succeed in building new kindergartens. Then came Minister Cernač, who had already put individual kindergartens into even greater energy efficiency so that they could further build departments where they saw in municipal administrations that they had built small schools. And that is why today we have so full employment of Slovenian kindergarteners or children in Slovenian kindergartens. Because sometimes there was an option that was kind to families and children. Today, however, arguments are drawn from the veins, including how the congregations will not be able to do so, how the finances will not be able to do so. The facts are only two: a good law, a wrong proposalr. In the SDS Group, we will gladly support the proposal of the Nova Slovenija Group on the Law on Kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The position of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Mrs Karla Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u206	Your Honor! I hope I'm at the right address because I've heard all sorts of things that don't even touch the Kindergarten Act. We are aware that the period of preschool education is crucial to the position of an individual in society, while at the same time having a positive impact on children's development and learning. It is true that the birth rate in Slovenia is lower every year, but there is certainly no problem in attributable to the abolition of the benefit for parents who had two or more children involved in kindergarten at the same time as the proposed law. Young people want to create a family, but they postpone decisions on the birth of a child due to an increasingly long study, which is an investment for the future, housing problems, the face of fixed-term employment and punitive employment, which is why they are not credit-worthy. The decrease in birth rates in Slovenia is also linked to the increasing age of women at birth of the first child. In 2017, on average, Mommy was 29.4 years old. Looking at statistics, we see that the number of children in kindergartens has increased by 41% in the last decade. The European strategic objective, which foresees that 95% of four- and five-year-old children should be included in preschool education by 2020, is constantly approaching Slovenia as 23% of children of this age attended preschool year or school year 2017–2018. The inclusion of the youngest in kindergartens is also increasing. In 2017-2018, 64% of children of this age attended kindergartens, and in 2007 and 2008 less than half attended kindergartens. We believe that the re-implementation of the legal arrangements for the benefit of parental payments would not affect and achieve an increase in birthrates, since decision-making for children in addition to housing and employment problems and an increasingly longer study also affects individual values and different expectations and not just family policy measures. The reasons for the adoption of the bill, such as the better economic situation on the one hand and the higher budgetary revenues and, on the other hand, the low fertility and ageing of the population, do not hold back, since it is necessary to approach this problem, as you have already said on several occasions, in an integrated manner, while a thorough analysis of the situation is also needed. Because if you take it somewhere, you have to put it somewhere else. But we've always been used to this, just to take it. At least the housewives we discussed at the parliamentary club today may be more aware of how much we can take for the family budget to last. In addition, the proposal for a law does not treat parents equally with regard to the same income situation of families, and its application would therefore be unacceptable. For all these reasons, we do not support the bill in the letter of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished other representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members, honourable Members! Allow me to intrude on this town, which is unacceptable to what Mr Lisec says in his position, when I could represent the position of the Group of Members to divide the children into yours and ours, into those who may be of Slovenian descent or any other kind. It's really unacceptable, and it doesn't belong, to my understanding, to this temple of democracy. Even the deception that has not been done in the field of family policy is not true is a lie. Indeed, a resolution on family policy was adopted in the previous mandate, which has taken many important measures in the field of child care. In any case, it is the task of this government to start implementing and implementing this as soon as possible. And please don't fool me. I am now taking a position on the proposed law. Proposals, Members and Members of the New Slovenia have decided to reintroduce the draft law amending Article 32 of the Law on kindergartens into the legislative process. The change relates to a new arrangement of the level of payment of parents, in a way that re-establishs the lower price of kindergarten for the first child and free kindergarten for the second and all subsequent children who are enrolled in kindergarten at the same time. This is therefore a more or less identical law than was introduced into the legislative procedure in 2017. They move the application of the law to 1 January 2020 by explaining that preparation is needed to adapt the implementation of the law. Let me point out in the introductory part that the Social Democrats in the proposal decide that the law is suitable for further consideration, we will not support it. Not because you would categorically reject such an idea, but because it is already the beginning of a marriage. The bill has nothing to do with the sincere intention of solving the demographic problem, as the proponents state, but it seems that they are trying to trap the coalition into some dogma that are themselves contradictory, harmful and financially unsustainable. These same proponents are tirelessly explaining how this country is overtaxed, how there are no new jobs in this account, how we have to unload gross wages so that people can get more into the wallet, and simply from increased consumption there will be more inflows into the tax box. This simplicity of economic interpretation is, to put it bluntly, the fraud that we have paid at the rate of EUR 700 million in the case of Bajuk's tax reform. Imagine if I used a little of this populism myself. How many kindergarten bills could be paid from this address? Next. There is always much to say about how public services need to be given counterweight, competitiveness, and therefore their proposal seems logical. Financially burden public kindergartens, weaken them, then probably through the back door bring private, private ones, which is the world mantra of the proponent. They also say that only competitively privately gives true results and so on. This harmful and economically unsustainable logic is not going to work and we cannot land. The reasons for addressing demographic challenges in this way are, of course, unfounded if, on the other hand, this is a major financial pressure for a public network of kindergartens, which may have negative consequences in the context of synergies between tax exemptions. Let me remind you that at the end of the 2008 term, the drafters of this amendment, together with the other members of the then coalition, prepared a proposal for a Kindergarten Act, which freed the parents of the second and subsequent children in kindergarten from paying the programme. At that time, the Social Democrats supported the proposal because we believed that it was a sincere intention to burden parents and perhaps to promise a more friendly family policy from this title. That illusion didn't last long. With the infamous Zuyfa and other anti-crisis measures, many rights were taken without mercy, and even then, at the time of Zuyfa, we have already faced the demographic problem. For this reference, however, NSI colleagues point to the fiscal rule of the coming crisis. They remind us that we need to save for those terrible times. Of course, tax exemptions for the richest are exempt from this, which Slovenia believes would allow for a development breakthrough. I ask you, honourable proponents, would you support the increased taxation of capital, profits and property of the richest? And it's already a summary of yesterday's SO statement at 100 days of the Sharcha government. I quote: “According to the words of the head of the NSI Group, Joseph Horvath is seen after hundreds of days that the Government is very generous. Money's been distributed before it was created. At the same time, he said it was unclear whether the Government was considering a development breakthrough, since in the light of preparations for a possible recession, companies should be stimulated to invest most of their profits in technological and human resources." End of quote. Let me repeat the NSI leader's statement: The government shares money before it was created. The inconsistentness of NSI continues — without a bad conscience. Respected and respected Social Democrats believe that pre-school education in Slovenia is quality and widely accessible. We are aware that during the earliest period of childhood, the inclusion of children in kindergartens must be encouraged, irrespective of the social situation of parents. Moreover, our support goes to those who particularly stress and advocate how important it is for children from a less stimulating family environment to enter this first development period. Inclusion contributes significantly to voice progress, improving social inclusion with peers, preparing children adequately for further education and a later career path. That is why, dear colleagues and colleagues, our desire to see 80% of children's participation in kindergartens today is gradually increasing and approaching 100%. In doing so, of course, it will be necessary to provide spaces where children will develop appropriate time and space during this first development period. It will be necessary to provide funds, not only for premises, but also for the appropriate payment of professional staff in kindergartens and also for the subsidisation of parental payments. Our goal is, of course, to arrange a free daycare centre in a comprehensive arrangement in due course. Free kindergarten for everyone. But we are aware that this is not going through the night. Unfortunately, the demographic problem of Slovenia is not being solved in the way it was conceived in NSa. It will be necessary to deal with housing policy – by the way, Slovenia does not have a housing policy, everything is more than an abandoned market, which you certainly like – yes – employment policy, wage policy, long-term care and family policy, yes, more comprehensive than just giving up a marriage commitment that goes back there in 2020, while in some other circumstances the rights thus acquired are easily forfeited. Unfortunately, the social democrats of these changes to the law cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has a procedural proposal before we proceed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you, Madam President. I will not go down to the level of the predecessor who is antisocial, but I was hoping that without my intervention you would remind the MP of the National Assembly that he is not lying in the National Assembly. Because Member Lisec did not divide the children into ours and yours, but divided the policies into those who, I quote, “who favor Slovenian families and children, and those who are dislikable from family policies and children.” So, honourable Members of the SD, and I ask you to point out this the next time, the first time they deceive that if they read wrongly and if they listen wrongly to SD Members, let them first check what someone has written, what someone has said, and then let them speak. In short, the fact that members of the SD are allowed to lie has clearly become a mantra in the National Assembly, and, Madam President, I ask that every time a Member of the National Assembly fails to warn him of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u211	Mr Member, thank you for your procedural proposal, which – I repeat – was not. It is my job to lead the course of the meeting, but not to comment substantively on the debates or presentations on the views of Members. But in this place, Mr. Ambassador Magi would. Koprivac warned that he had exceeded the rules of business concerning the provision of positions by the groups of Members. In the context of the presentation of the positions, there can be no controversy with the additional explanation or the applicant or the position of the parent working body or with the previous views of the members of the groups. So I would like to remind you here that in the future you will only present your Group's position on the subject that we are addressing. Now I have another procedural proposal. Mrs. Bojana Mursic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. You've said a lot. Thank you for keeping a close eye on this session. However, I would like to point out that my colleague, Lisec, mentioned in what he has just said, all Members and Members of the SD. Please, this was and also Member Marko Koprivec said in the beginning nicely that this is only his opinion, and please do not be misled that this is the opinion of all Members of the Social Democrats. So please, if this is how you conduct the session forward and on these matters and you react to these observations immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u213	Thank you. In your proposal, too, I have not followed the procedural proposal and I ask once again all Members not to abuse the Institute of Procedural Proposal for substantive discussions. Now, however, we can continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone! Respectable people who care about their children, their teachers, their assistants, and their kindergartens! The Slovenian system of pre-school education and protection is one of the highest quality in the European and global criteria. This is also recognized by relevant international educational studies. The inclusion of our young children in kindergarten protection from the earliest stages is very important, but this positive impact is particularly potential before entering primary school. Therefore, at a time when we are facing ever-increasing societal challenges, it is of particular importance that we give excellent pre-school education a good start for all children. The data that we are almost achieving the European Union's reference objectives on the inclusion of children in kindergartens from the age of 4 to entry into school is a good road map for all further actions in this area. As of 1 September, the former government's action will also contribute to this, under which shorter programmes are fully financed from the State budget for those children who are not yet included in institutional protection in kindergartens for a year prior to their entry into school. The solutions proposed in today's novel do not seem to have much to do with this. The NSI Group proposes solutions to relieve families, which should have a particularly positive impact on higher fertility. The demographic picture of Slovenia is not optimistic and we do not challenge it. Like most developed countries, we are an old society facing serious demographic challenges and traps. However, the proposed measures are applicable to illuminate, address and weigh other angles. Is this measure equally encouraging and equally fair for families with minimum income already exempt and for those with high incomes that do not represent a high cost to them? Will this measure run out of money to raise wages for assistants and educators who, while waiting for a higher salary, protect our children and raise them with the same warmth and commitment as if that salary had already been raised? The solutions that are being proposed today are already well-known. The measure of free kindergarten for the second child was introduced in 2008 and abolished four years later during the Janšev government. The truth of love took too long to claim to have increased fertility. It's already a random review of the numbers that clearly shows that. Since 2008, the fertility rate has been around 1.56 children per woman of childbearing age and has been at the European Union average for the last two years. Even at the time of the crisis when the austerity measures were in place, the birthrate was maintained at the same level. Even more serious research does not confirm the absolute positive impact of family policy on fertility, not at least in the short term. However, the measure was ineffective and unequal to parents in view of the same income situation during the period of validity. There are also absurd cases of children in kindergarten who preferred to stay home with their grandmothers and rarely attend free kindergartens, thus preventing the child from joining the kindergarten waiting list. And one more moment to consider. Each such measure should be planned and implemented in the light of the expected increase in enrolment of children in kindergarten and in the case of the prior provision of sufficient capacity in kindergarten. It is undeniable that Slovenia has a highly developed family policy. We are constantly witnessing the stable scope of family policy measures and the trend towards their gradual increase. The only significant intervention took place in 2012 and this fact cannot be changed. Nevertheless, we believe that the abolition of the free kindergarten measure for another child in this regard has not been fatal for families. More importantly, almost all the austerity measures in this area have been released in the last period, and those that have not yet been released will be finished with the new year. Of course, we are talking about those measures that are more important than today's proposed measures, at least for us. We believe in the good purpose of the proposalr and it is right that we are also discussing such important social issues. Although the specific novelty was considered inappropriate for further consideration already in the previous mandate. At the same time, we do not believe that these solutions will have a significant impact on the decision of couples for the second or third generation. Other factors are too much and are too important to exclude their impact on deciding on such a key issue of all couples, families or individuals. Unfortunately, it is not as simple as the applicants are trying to show. We will not support the new law in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u215	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First of all, he will be given the floor, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u216	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. To all, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the parliamentary groups! Thank you for your views, no matter how overwhelming they may have been. As far as the coalition agreement is concerned, of course, we would like to ensure that if we receive a time-table from the Government now, that a programme will be implemented where you write down the challenge of “providing a fair and accessible system of education and education”, you wrote, “we will set up a free kindergarten programme”. Stopping, that probably means kindergarten's free. What are you gonna do now? We are back in Cankar's year and it would be better to use another Slovenian term. We understand, we may be mistaken that you will come with solutions soon, that is, for a free kindergarten. Well done, congratulations today. But please, not at the expense of the municipalities, because I'm waiting right now, you've raised the municipalities a little bit, which is commendable, but now the weakness of God will come, if the municipalities get a kindergarten, we know how kindergartens are financed, wages have to be raised in the public sector, etc. etc. and there are super new burdens on municipal budgets. If they can do it, I don't know. We'll see, yeah, we'll see. The government says that all stakeholders should be included in this law. This is always a very appropriate observation to the opposition parliamentary group if it is a bill-maker. The government often goes without the consent of all stakeholders as a bulldozer forward. Now, you may have understood that the municipal budgets will burden our marriage. No, it won't. The state budget will be burdened. This is said in one and only substantive article. It says that very clearly. I would like to make a similar argument when I comment on the position of the Desus Group, presented by Mr Lepi. He spoke of the burden of municipal budgets, which means that he did not read this only article, Desus. It is therefore a burden on the state budget. It's true, as a rescue plant, you have a decision coming to you here from the Court of Auditors. Yes, I agree, he must be respected. Here, of course, I would immediately recall another court, which is called the Constitutional Court. Thank you to the SDS colleagues for their support of the law. The position of the LMŠ – of course you were not in Parliament in 2008, thank God you are now. This solution has already worked, this solution has already worked. On 29 February 2008, at 3 p.m. and 46 minutes, we voted on this law, which practically put this solution into effect. There was no vote against it, no vote against it. And here a fellow SD said exactly that they also supported this solution. And now that I am in the position of the Group of Social Democrats – Mag. Mark Koprivec, of course, thanks for the ad he did to me, that's commendable. I'll be back on occasion. Look, we don't share anything before, we have to create it first, and then we'll share. This Article 2 speaks of the application of this Act only on 1 January 2020. So all of 2019 we have to create so that we can share. It is true, I insist on this observation, as you very precisely stated yesterday's statement, your government has gone away, and at first it's almost split up, which is to say that on this side where it is actually created, we have not yet experienced any, say, candy. But hope dies last. Yes, it is true that I am giving my recognition to the honourable Vice-President, who, until now, has been leading this meeting and has disappointed Mr Mark Koprivac, who has completely abused the position of the Group of Members for the first time with Tomas Lisce and then with New Slovenia. Your position is yours. I expected you to say that this solution is bad, but ours will be bad, and when will yours be bad? We would then encourage a debate here. I don't want to discuss just our proposal, which you say sucks. Isn't the parliamentary debate actually the face of different opinions, different solutions? In the end, we come up with the best, best solution. That's what we want, not to kick each other. Look, we supported the garbage intervention law today, we said we'd back it up. I hope you heard. Maybe someone thinks it's weird. What about this opposition, what's going on with it? We would like this law to come to a second reading when, I repeat, we would also invite the professional public, because now this discussion is only and only political. There could be some optimal, better solutions, which are still in the direction of the coalition agreement, because the coalition says, we are betting – I hope we do not stop – we will set up a free kindergarten programme. So we're in the same direction around here. Happy birthday to the dead, dear colleague Koprivc, and even about my former president and my political father. I was touched that you wouldn't leave him alone today. Look, that's a little bit like that. It means lack of ideas, lack of ideas. And you've calculated 700 million euros somewhere. I think it's too low. At that time we have burdened taxpayers, citizens and legal persons, I think, stronger than 1 billion in that period, in our 2004-2008 mandate. Economic growth was phenomenal. As far as infrastructure is concerned, we didn't talk much, we just built, you know, we just built. We took the road to Hungary and closed the financial reconstruction structure for reconstruction of the Prague-Hodoš railway line, and 460 million for now Miro Cerar for his purpose, because we were there together and so on and so on and Opera Planica. And what we get to the few billion investments we've just made, we've taken away. As you see, now if you are reviving the late Bajuk, forgive the expression, then I must remind you of the government of SD in 2009: “We have underestimated the situation in banks.” €5 billion. [[advertising from the hall]] However, TES 6 and the Parliamentary Investigation Commissions have concluded that money laundering is necessary. And I make a dot here because it's not dark. Now we're talking about kids, now we're talking about kindergarten. But you've encouraged me, and I'm happy to have someone pour me a catalyst, you know. Yes, as a matter of fact, the application of Law 1. 1. 2020. And another thing about Social Democrats, actually, I was there. You had once in Gornja Radgona, this is Slovenian Radgona, on the border, in Gornja Radgona you had an extremely successful mayor of your kind, he was also a Member. We were very involved in the construction of the highway, because that was what brought it into the National Assembly. But that's not the topic again. The topic is what he told the then Minister of Education, also for kindergartens, Dr. Lukšič, but he said this: "We should not care that our children go there, that is, beyond the borders where as young people meet foreign tradition and foreign culture." We face the fact that more and more children are in kindergartens outside the border. A concrete example from Upper Radgona. There's Radkersburg on the other side. Why is that? Why are they going there already? Well, I'll call the gentleman I mentioned and you all know him very well. SMC, thank you for recognizing our good purpose and our good solutions, I like that. Perhaps in the course of the debate, the decision will be different from that announced here by respected colleague Rajić. And also, because I actually want to prove with statements, with numbers, with arguments that we are actually on the road together, so I will quote former Minister Anjo Kopač Dark when we adopted the Resolution on Family Policy for 2018-2028 on 20 February 2018, that is to say: "Family policy is independent and we are trying to move it away from social life, so we are talking about the desire to bring about the universality of rights." She said Minister Anja Kopač Mrak and added that the new resolution meant an upgrade to the existing one, but was more in-depth and concrete about the measures. The area of coordination of professional and family life is much more exposed than it has been in the past, as analyses from abroad show that these measures are the only measures that can detect a slight positive impact on parents’ decision-making for children. I'll sign it. Great, great. So, here he is talking about what actually brings our solution. And when we talk about the universality of rights, of course it's not a topic now, but once we should open up a debate about it, because, as we all know, we have a very complicated social policy. We should agree once, but what if we established a universal, free-for-minister, former, universal children's allowance. Then, of course, eliminate various reliefs, incomes, and whatever. Of course we'd all understand that. Of course, we must first understand and unify ourselves about what we say in New Slovenia that people are not equal, we are not equal, but we are equal. And now I'm asking if children are equal in this country or if you want to value children differently. One is the value of those born to poor families, and another is the worth of those born to wealthy families. According to our view, according to our understanding, according to the understanding of New Slovenia, children are equal. I look forward to a further constructive debate and a good conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The first debater is Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mr Jan Mahnic is preparing himself. Here you go, Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u218	Good day to you all! It's a coalition deal. In fact, I am increasingly asking myself from the debate to the debate if you are aware of what you have signed. Because during this term we will reach one point when you find that Nova Slovenija is investing legislation under your coalition contract and you do not support it. Do you know what you signed? We have invested exactly what you have signed and in the past, what one minister has already said. And now we're back to the magic point when you say that something is non-systemic. And then look at it, when the government throws away half a billion euros at the beginning of its mandate to buy social peace, I agree, a time of economic growth, okay, you say where we're going to take it from. Yeah, where are we gonna get this from, you're wondering. Well, you know that. Lady, if we do, the lady will. But here's the thing, from your coalition contract. I would like to include at least a little thought in your place, because at the end of the term we will come to really say, look, see, because Nova Slovenija has put in more stories, legal initiatives from our coalition treaty than we have ourselves. But now, one of the ideas. We are not going to give up in New Slovenia, and I will propose to the parliamentary group that, for example, they should submit to the meeting in January the law that the land is round and you will still say that this is not a system law. We come into one of these strange anomalies that if we write a law that has seven days, you'll say you haven't counted. Because it always seems to me that we are not going to make decisions based on what is good, what is bad, whose initiatives are good, which are bad, but in particular who proposes them. And before that, my colleague Horvat made it clear, look, we are supporting good laws and we have already supported them in this mandate and we have announced that we will support another of Mr Lebn's Members tomorrow. And that's right, it's that smart parliamentary democracy when we don't argue about what someone, as we hear from the SD, did ten years ago, right? 'Cause then, dear SD, 10 years, you've been in power for the last 10 years and you've been in power for the last 10 years to put your bills on display. And this law that we have on the table at the back is a law that is effective, which is good, and in particular, at the time of economic growth, you have repeatedly said that some of it should be given to them, thirdly, fourthly, fifthly. And we say that they should have something else from the economic growth of the family. Good master, so we said in 2008, but a certain grain purchase puts it in its bad time frame. And a good master of a certain ransom, part of his harvest also cleans up for development, cleans up for investment, cleans up for the future. And when we talk about family politics, we talk about the future, when we talk about children, we talk about something that's important for our future, we talk about next generations. And then we said, we're going here against this, because this way we can raise demographic trends. And we were effective, we were effective, and this was also observed by the UMAR in its reports. Indeed, the measure in force certainly had a positive impact on family life and also demographic trends. Here let me share one more opinion, that I will not argue that what New Slovenia proposes is the only possible measures to change demographic trends, because demographics, see, are not in our hands. We've discussed before that there are only two ways to get people, the manca we have. The first option is to raise our births, and the second option is to bring migrants here as ordinary citizens and work and so on. But I think that the first option is better, so we are promoting more births with positive policies. This Kindergarten Act is a law that contributes to this. And it follows, once again, I repeat, in particular three things, for the first time, demography, which gives us exactly UMAR, secondly, it would certainly be easier to harmonise family and professional life and thirdly, would further increase the involvement in kindergartens. And those who just call for modern customers, I really don't understand this third point why you're opposed to it. We must aim to have as many children as possible in kindergartens, to be included in kindergartens, to be in society, to be included in this part of adulthood. It was mentioned about Zuif. I said before, when we have a chance, let's take care of our future. This is what we have done at the height of economic growth in the 2004-2008 mandate. And now that we've come essentially to the same level or, as it appears a little bit over, responsible policy would say again how much we can invest in our future, how much money we can spend for our youngest, for our children, for our families. Because this is an investment for 20, for 30 years, it's not just an investment for tomorrow. And interestingly, even today, the parties to the coalition, at the time you were in opposition 2008, you did not object to this, you defined this as a good thing, which made it painful for me, that it was also at this point not for what is right, what is wrong, but, in particular, who is proposing. And secondly, what hurts me the most is playing an ideological conflict, on purpose, against families. One so modest call. We must not divide ourselves on the basis of a value system in relation to family policy, in relation to family, but in particular on what are the proposals. And if the suggestions are good, then we have to support them socially. And next time, I'd like to ask you to come to this ambon from the positions of the parliamentary groups when you're saying that you wouldn't back this up to propose an alternative. And if you reject today's package of legislation that promotes positive demographic trends and say that these are not the right measures, then come next time with other laws. Don't talk, someday, but somewhere we'll accept them and then the end of the term will come and we won't take anything again. Won't you have a conscience? She would have me. For this reason, I ask that we be responsible for our work and come up with other measures, not just to refuse. For by doing this we have a reputation for the entire congregation of the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The word is Jean-Mahnič, to be prepared for the Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support this law, because this is a step towards definitely addressing one of the most pressing issues that this society is currently dealing with, and that is demographics. And that Slovenia's demographic picture, as is currently available, as we have now and as we will have on the basis of some indicators in the coming years, decades, seriously endangers, has also found the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services, which last week, on Tuesday, adopted recommendations to the Government to strengthen Slovenian national security, where, among the recommendations, the point that Slovenia is at risk of negative demographic trends in the long term is also a point. If we look at the average age of the population of the Republic of Slovenia, this year was 41.3, in 2018 and this year is 43.2 years. The proportion of population aged 0 to 14 years was 14% in 2009, 2018 15%. The proportion of people aged 15 to 64 decreased by 4 percentage points. The proportion of people aged 65 or over went from 16.4% to 19.4%. And the Commission wrote in explanation: Slovenia has the ninth oldest population in the world. That's what puts us at risk. If these negative trends do not stop, then in the next three decades we can continue to observe the pronounced human resources problems in the Slovenian Army, the police and other national security services. In addition to these problems in the coming decades, national security services can expect additional recruitment problems arising from the fact that 17% of Slovenia's living population is not born in Slovenia. This was pointed out by the services mentioned above, especially security services, namely, the Slovenian Army, the Slovenian Police and others, that recruitment problems are already being seriously perceived. If you look at the generations of children born now, and compare them with those born 15 or 20 years ago, it can be a parallel to an alarming situation regarding the recruitment of defence and security forces, including the current demographic picture. And when we also take into account the fact that between 5 and 8 thousand people, young citizens and citizens move away from the Republic of Slovenia annually, not in the sense that they go to Erasmus for half a year, but that they go abroad because you are there for such and different reasons, but above all, one of the main reasons is the more favourable tax environment, they find a job, they open an enterprise there, then it is so much more significant damage for Slovenia, because the country, not even the 18 thousand that are born each year, is virtually unable to count them, because according to the projections currently available, will be able to stay here somewhere between 10 and 11 000. And there's only one way to solve this problem. This is by adopting measures that stimulate positive family policy. And the law before us is certainly one of such laws. Years, when it was accepted at the time of the first Janša government that kindergartens were free of charge for each other as well as for further children and, unfortunately, was then abolished, it is not true that it did not show positive demographic trends. You can go take a look around the back. Any measure that in any way relieves the personal budgets of families, parents, is a step in the right direction, as demography is then positively affected by this. And I really don't understand why, given the economic growth that we have right now, why, at the surplus of the budget that is planned, why, with all the millions that come from economic growth added to the budget, we don't have citizens and citizens, we're talking about the broader segment, none of it. Of course, the colleagues from the Left would say immediately, but they do, because we've raised the minimum wage. Okay, nice and good. I have been talking about the broader segment of citizens and citizens, which we can only capture if what we already have and what we will also have, I think that after three laws, today is probably not the turn of the Income Act that we have proposed in the SDS, only in this way can you assume a wider part of citizens and citizens when you propose to raise the general tax relief from EUR 3 000 to EUR 3 000 500. However, if you raise the minimum wage for, say, 30 euros, for the first time, 30 euros will certainly know something in your wallets, but not as much as if citizens and citizens, including those who receive minimum wages, would be burdened in a way that takes changes in terms of raising general tax relief, we will certainly not stimulate them in any other way, even if we give them 30 euros, and then with 1. 1. 2020 is another 30 euros, because they will have to wait about two years to get 60 more, and that is what we know, for how many people, it is not about everyone getting more. Okay, but if we take this, let's say that for those with minimum wage, we raise this minimum wage if we go into taking measures for individuals, if I say so, segments of citizens and citizens, and I'm wondering what you're going to do for a segment of citizens that we can call young families. And here is one of the proposals that is certainly a step in the right direction for these young families to be burdened, and that, finally, more decided to have children. Because it is not only a problem of recruitment into the armed forces, as I said before, which has been accepted by the KNOVS, but, of course, it can also continue to be an economic problem, especially in view of the fact that the retirement age will have to be raised more quickly than before, because a simple account of how many active citizens work for such and a different number of pensioners will simply not come out soon. I will support this law, because I believe that only positive family policy can stimulate us to have more births, which will have positive aspects of demographics. Positive demography also brings all other positive aspects, especially here in the economic sense and of course others.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Honourable Secretary of State, the proponents, colleagues and colleagues! Today I have a little bit of a problem sitting in this sitting room, because on the other side, I'm going to say, we have good people on the right hand side who care about family policy, but on the other hand, we have black ducks that we actually reject everything you put on the table. Let me remind you, the government is still a hundred days away. You have proposed a law that is absolutely attractive at first sight and that would be supported immediately and we can agree in this part. But we're going nice and slow. We do have in our coalition contract that we will have a free kindergarten for all children. That's right. But it doesn't say we'll do it in the first hundred days of rule. Because that's impossible. Why am I saying this? Because we need to do an analysis of the existing situation. You are also proposing a measure already implemented in 2008 until 2012, and we know what happened at the time. The Court of Auditors has made this clear. What did it say? In fact, this measure has improved only the financial accessibility of kindergartens, not the actual accessibility, in environments where there was a shortage of vacancies in kindergartens. The actual accessibility of kindergartens can be achieved by providing new jobs and increasing capacity. Of course, where will that burden go? One point of view was that the burdens would also fall on the local community, yes, including the local community, in the period 2008-2012 when this measure was implemented. Which part? In part of the investment itself. At that time, the local communities had been suppressed before a very unpleasant matter — they would have to invest in the construction of new kindergartens. What happened? The funds from the state budget were not provided and we were in one vicious circle. We had a bigger enrolment, we had to follow minimum standards, but we didn't really have where to put the kids. What was going on? We received complaints against the local community, we got tired of these complaints, we looked for solutions, we set up various commissions to respond to the complaints of parents with this measure, those who just stayed out of this system and couldn't enter children into kindergarten because there were simply not enough capacities. It must also be said that the Court of Auditors at that time also warned that parents, with an average or higher wage for a child in kindergarten, continued to pay one of the highest prices. While the free kindergarten measure for another child encouraged the inclusion of children, which was certainly good, those who had more children or had only one child were in a worse position than those who had one or more children enrolled in kindergartens, while at the expense both families were at the same level financially. Inequality was not allowed in this context. And that there was unequal treatment of parents, there was also an opinion of the Court of Auditors. As I mentioned, we were, of course, looking for solutions in local communities at the time. Why am I talking to the local community? I was working in local communities at the time, and I met with this, and we were in an unenviable position, but of course we wanted to enable everyone to enter into kindergarten, looking for solutions such as this and different. It is said that the reinstatement of free kindergarten for another child cannot be suddenly. Of course, we are also looking for solutions. And at the Ministry, the position was clearly stated, they are preparing, they are meeting with, and they will prepare appropriate, appropriate measures. I believe that this will happen, because we have also written it in the coalition contract and we expect it to happen. Now, whether this measure is going to end in one, I don't know, in the last period before schooling or that all children will have free kindergarten, I don't know what the analysis will show, which I think would be right. Those children in the second pre-school period have all free kindergartens regardless of the financial situation of the family, because it is very important that the child is integrated before entering school, in order to learn the true respect of all these rules, and I simply have to say in this part that this would be appropriate. We need to be aware that we are still not fulfilling or have a spatial norm that sets 3 square metres of internal playing area for a child, we are still not fulfilling this. This is still a very big problem. We wrote this in a white book back in 1995. I think we should do that. I have to say that I really need to remind you of one more thing, and don't insult me, proponents, for real. You are fighting for a sustainable balanced budget to spend as much as we create. Where are we gonna get that money? Where? In fact, we have now had these measures that you are proposing today, I don't know, these are large amounts, just not working at this point. The fiscal world has already given its opinion on what has already happened. Let us ask ourselves whether we really want to lose the country now at this time, at this time of conjuncture. We have to start squandering, squandering, because there are also bad times when we have to spend this money. However, I certainly do not want this measure, which happened in 2012 with the famous Zuyfa. What happened then? But then you didn't ask yourself what was going on. It did, however, address the family’s area with binding measures: maternity allowance, parental allowance, parental allowance, child allowance, child support, large family allowance. My voice shakes because I know what hardship people were in at the time, and we all suffered together and sweated a thorny path when it happened. But I also know it wasn't easy for you. I completely understand. But let's actually start to see that these things are going to drive so consistently that we're not going to be unconstant. If I just touch this law. This law proposes an increase of 21.5 million on the expenditure side. Where are the revenues, as I mentioned? Your colleague mentioned in his position that it would be possible, because we all stressed that we should withdraw the word at the same time so that it would then be free for all children. Yeah, that would work, but wait a minute, and then it wouldn't cost $21.5 million. I don't even know how to judge her right now. We should ask the Ministry how much this would take. Because if I have another child, my first child is already in primary school or high school, that means I have a stress free kindergarten for this other child. How much will that cost? I don't know. I wonder. Yeah, they're looking for solutions, they're looking for alternatives, the government's doing good so far, it's looking for estimates where we are. I think that the assessment we currently have is encouraging and I believe that we are on the right track. But it is true that we must guard this fund and this conjuncture that we have. Allow me, otherwise it is not exactly in the context of this law, but because the motioner also mentioned the Maribor-Pince motorway. You're just, I'll quote, I think it was kind of like, "What you did. We have decided and done what we have done.” Great, great, great, great stuff, we all really needed it, it's nice to drive, but it saddens me that there isn't that retirement belt. He's really lying on my soul because it's not the highway that you could take 130, it's 110. So things are really burning. There was something quite said about the birth itself today. In 2014, the smart government found that there were only 18,000 births in the year. Then the konjunkture or appropriate measures, as you stated, were the second free kindergarten, the number of births increased to 21 000 928. But what happened after that? The smart government has accepted Zuyf. You put it in one government, you take it out in another government. I'm not for those old ones. I really don't. If I give you something, I give you something. If I give you a thousand euros now, I'll give them to you. I won't take them away from you in a year or four years. I won't. I mean, here we really have to ask ourselves that we're somehow consistent, that we're somehow holding this together and that we're simply saving some money for bad times, because I can't say that such economic growth as now will be in the future. I want to, but I think we're gonna stay here somewhere. However, many things will still have to be settled, absolutely, in the area of family policy certainly, because we really need to look at helping people to have more birthrates. These are long-term measures. I'm also concerned that moms only decide for kids there when they're 29.4 years old. We really should do something here to make women decide sooner. These measures may also be appropriate, but they may still be premature. I believe that the Government is thinking in the right direction that it will comply with the coalition contract and that we will actually also achieve this free kindergarten measure for all children. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u224	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleague mag. Bojana Muršič, I greatly appreciate your discussion. But to get you on the side of New Slovenia to know that you're ugly ducks? Oh, no. Of course, the hearings aren't off, but I can't apologize for the hearings, and I can't apologize for the unspoken words. On the contrary, you are honorable, just as I told my colleague Robert. You're not ugly, you're not ugly. If someone's guilty, and I can't influence your conscience. Everyone's free about it. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, I've said it's kind of your lifesaving plant. Ah, you know what the Court of Auditors – I can say for a long time, we recently had a debate on the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017, when the Court of Auditors actually tore apart, if I may say so, the measures of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'm not going to talk about this right now, but there's been a lot of bad news about the whole system of social policy, which is unreachable, opaque, and especially ineffective. For the whole system, the ministry got reprimanded. The reprimand's been given. There are reports that I wouldn't be making things up right now so that no one would tell me. It's an honor when you were an official in the local community that you were saving, if I understand correctly, the capacities of kindergartens. So, these capacities are now, because probably in 2012 no one hit them with Zuyfa? Did you break them? As far as Zuyfa is concerned, probably those Members we received in 2012, look, everyone's heart broke. Tell Comrade Jurš we sat together how difficult it was. But you didn't tell my colleague Bojan that there was a country on the verge of bankruptcy. We didn't call a threesome with any marriage, as it sounds, yeah, they called a threesome. Yeah, who called three? On the contrary, one home threesome then took a picture and said, we're a home threesome, we'll save everything. But Zuyf was so good that some of the measures still hold, and here we, the mea culpa that we made this mistake in 2012, have punished the family in some way because there was no other option, there was no money, and now we are correcting this mistake. Help us. Do we have the right to correct a mistake? We do? So we do. Let us make it possible to correct this mistake. We regret that Zujf went into 40 laws, negative, brutal, no positive. More. Where do I get the money? I don't remember a government law assessing the financial consequences of the law and writing it down in some article, maybe transitional provisions or somewhere, but we'll take that money there and there. I'm not going to get you into a bad mood to ask you back the question where you took the money.We're not going anywhere. If you're taking children as a cost of the state, then that's bad. Then we just finish here and, like, cut the costs, and we're done. But I'm following, I'm reading your minister, the former Dr. Anjo Kopač Dark, and we're political competitors, I don't read any gossip articles, I don't care about her statement, which isn't from the area she covered in the previous term. I've been reading discussions about plans for a family-friendly society. One of the objectives of the new resolution, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 20 February this year, says that one of the objectives of the new resolution is also to create an environment that will encourage decision-making for children. Super Minister, hat down. And then he says, cheaper kindergarten – a special chapter is in this professional debate – “in kindergartens we advocate greater flexibility of working time. Accessibility and price are also a problem.” And run, come on!? The problem is accessibility and price. And we come with a solution, follow the minister. Me who? We're following the ministers. Parents pay between 22% and 70% of the price. They're much cheaper in Germany and elsewhere. This is an important cost for us, and it will have to be possible to reduce it and increase the involvement of children, especially since the third year, was commented by Minister Anja Kopač Mrak. It proposes to exempt payment for the second child in kindergarten and the youngest child if two are in the first triad of primary school and so on and so on. This isn't exactly the solution right now, but we're going this way. And now you're saying it's kind of populism. Yes, then take the floor first, Minister. What's he saying? She's a doctor of science. Probably not physics, but what she was covering. And now we're ugly, and on your side we're ugly, if you're tired again, we could go home now. Yeah, I'd rather be home, too. There's something else about Zuyph, it's not designed, but I'm going to point to my colleague Jursha, and there's more of us who are driving to work because of Zuyf. I'll make a dot here. The highway, yes, along this highway that we're taking, because so are you, colleague Bojana. I've heard this so many times, and I have to explain it because the public sometimes forgets something, but sometimes it doesn't follow. On 1 May 2004, Slovenia entered the EU, thank God, so people decided, this was the second major national consensus, if it was the first Slovenian independence, and today we need a third national consensus to modernise this country. We haven't done anything on individual sub-systems in 10, 20 years. Nothing. But the highway – then of course the late Bajuk, mentioned by your colleague Koprivc, brought the Guarantee Act to this national assembly, which we supported. The National Assembly supported it. We closed the financial structure. Construction of the highway started. That's right. I'd rather see a tri-passenger myself. I admit, we're on the same page here. The projects were built in 2000. The designer just passed by if you want. Who knew in 2000 what traffic would be like in 18 years? Nobody. Or they weren't very good at it. Now there's one more thing, colleague Bojana. If we were to be redesigned at that time, this is how we were explained when Janez Bozič was Minister of Transport, here was the Chairman of the Committee for the Accelerated Construction of the Pomeranian Highway, Mr Anton Kampus. Do you know him? You know it. You know Campuska because SD is Mayor of Gornje Radgone and Member of SD. Campus, yes, remember. He was the chairman of this committee, we all agreed and built the highway, but Campus became a Member, for thanks, for hat down, great. If we were to draw new projects at the time, the highway would fall in the time of your government, Mr. Borut Pahor, when the crisis struck. There wouldn't be any money, and we'd probably still be driving from home to work for, like, four hours or five hours. We have this experience when there was an old road. However, at the end of the 2004-2008 mandate, I asked Mr Žerev what the possibilities for extending the cross-section of the motorway were, and he said that the ministry would be monitoring and when this monitoring showed that the need for the expansion of the motorway would then go into effect. Yes, we may have lost because of this election. When you arrived, you threw this monitoring into a basket and now we're here where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bojana Muršič has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I'm afraid I have to replicate because I didn't say you were ugly ducks or that you said that, by any chance. We didn't get along. I said I feel like we're ugly ducks, that's the first. Then, the capacity of the nursery. Yeah, they're the others, that's what they're holding. But you know what's left? There was also a debt owed by the local communities at the time and thus a different possibility of investment in the place, both on the infrastructure and on the additional facilities for the school, and then all the other things remained because they simply had to pay off the debts because the country did not have the money at the time to help co-finance the investment of the kindergarten. And that's why it came to this, that's all, thank you very much. But we're not gonna talk about the timeline. This may be on some Infrastructure Committee, because I was not talking about the tri-passenger, but just about the withdrawal zone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u228	Thank you, good evening. If it's taken us to the freeway, it'll take me to Canada. During my visit to my relatives, I also went to kindergarten to see how it worked there. I can't understand that under all the obligations they have to pay him a lot, that the children only have five hours in him to pack their food into plastic boxes, which the children themselves open and feed, then take them to afternoon care, private protection, of course they pay very much for all of this. Then I think this thought of ours being truly extraordinary, and this payment, which we have on the scale that corresponds to our incomes, seems absolutely appropriate to me. It seems fair to me that it is justly appropriate to pay as much as we can with children, because they are equal, they receive the same and very careful care and protection and education. There really are irregularities, but there are other types. And now is perhaps the time to talk about it, because it hurts a lot of people. For one thing, it goes hand in hand to show their income inaccurately or simply to silence them and to receive subsidised payment of the kindergarten or the default of the kindergarten. Usually, I see this because I go to kindergarten every day to complain the most about the services of this kindergarten, even when they're sitting in one of those big Audis or Mercedes, they're still full of mouths about how bad this kindergarten is. And these are things that we must also confront and fight against. Because for a family that has minimum income, it is perfectly self - assured that a kindergarten does not have to be paid. Those who have the maximum or high income, I think it's right to pay something because you know, what a monthly wage for kindergarten is, it's only half a ticket with an airplane to Egypt, where they spend their potato holidays, but it's only rare. I mean, if one such scale is created that at this point, in the state of the state budget, it is not necessary for all to be exempt from the payment of kindergarten for another child. Although I think it's an idea, colleague Horvath, extremely good, I welcome, but given the abilities we have, I think it's only right to think a little bit about how to come up with this solution. They need a lot more, for example, assistant educators. These are extremely low-paid, low-valued, but I've already said this before, it seems to me on the board that these are not auxiliary construction workers, these are people who do their work with the same commitment and importance as educators, but the difference in this pay is great. And when I see a child flocking to a teacher or an assistant in the morning, it's good all day, because I know he's in completely safe hands. That is why I think that more needs to be done here, that we must give more away from ourselves if we are to decide how to pay. What else threatens this fertility? We have a problem. Birth rate is low compared to the rest of Europe. But it may have to be thought that this fertility is also threatened by this liberalism, which may be promoted by the very proponent of today's novel. In fact, the employer is never very happy when he receives notice that the worker is pregnant or, God forbid, that she is a pregnant manager because it simply changes plans. And you probably know the story – I just heard it, I don't know – that the young manager started working after giving birth, after two months, and her parents brought her children into foster care so that she wouldn't miss her at work. And this is an example, let's say you're wondering where your economic visions and plans show birth and where you see your family. I did not like the way you mentioned this period from 2008 to 2012, when the exemption for payment of kindergarten for the second child was in force, that the colleague said that she had jumped immediately in 2008. Here you can see he's populism trying to introduce himself. In order to jump birth rate in 2008, each couple probably had to talk in 2006, listen, but we wouldn't have a baby now, because 2008 will be free. Because then it's calculated, and somehow it would come that way. Of course not. It's funny. And that's not true. If we donate a little less populism, we'll get to one common track first. It is a little strange to ask a party who does not have the power to have the budget in order to make this request more and more. And of course, that is also one proof of populism. Where's the highest birth rate? The highest birth rate is in the European Union in Sweden and France. And we ourselves know that, especially in Sweden, they have tried in their education and education plans, with the best kindergartens, with the best receptions, with the best pedagogics, but it has by no means worked out until they have opened the door to their countries of migration. Birth must be seen through everything, including through the perspective of love, through the perspective of maturity and the perspective of migration. Because the only thing that gives us a healthy spirit, a healthy mind, is the exchange, a good exchange of genetic material, because only biology is a miracle, the holy spirit is a little less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Proposer, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thought you would first warn your respectable colleague Branet Rajić when he said that we are a party that does not have the authority to – how – deal with the budget. So, Mr Vice-President, from today forward we are excluded from the democratic process. Are we expelled from the National Assembly or what is it? Let us explain the purpose of this coalition so that we know how to act tomorrow. So here is the end of democracy, the end of the debate, the end of the competence to deal with the budget. I know my colleague Banet is engaged, and I know he'll apologize. Look, once you've been in Parliament as long as we have, you'll have even more power. And you do. But if you think that the power is absolute and is only yours, which follows some of my technical logic from your statement, then let us tell you this, then we will wait at home and see what the products of the vast and perhaps some other left coalition will be. But as for the problem that you initially opened, I like how parents drive fat cars to kindergarten to pick up their kids and so on. We have done a lot of work on this and here I understand that you have given support to my proposal for a universal child allowance or income, an allowance by the State, of course, for all equally, because children are equivalent, but of course you have abolished all subsidies, facilitating children and so on. Then the system of a family policy would be significantly simpler than it is now. Now we're really looking there when a lady or a gentleman comes in with a Mercedes for 280 grand or 180 grand a child and then other parents say, but you know, he doesn't pay for kindergarten. This has been happening for so many years and nothing happens in this area, but how easy it is to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u231	Ambassador Rajic, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u232	Procedurally. I greatly appreciate my colleague Horvath, and as Pavšč said, I actually like Jožet and I want to apologize, but only because you feel like pain. But otherwise, that's what I said, and that's what I meant, because when we made the coalition, we invited New Slovenia into the coalition, and unfortunately it didn't work. And then, yes, if they're not a coalition party, you don't have a budget like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Proposer Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I have to say it again, and I have to say it a hundred times. This is evidence, and this is now the eighth law we have tabled in this mandate, in these hundred days, which we have a government. Also, thank God, along with the SDS, they filled the meeting with their proposals, otherwise these sessions would be empty, they would be empty, they would have three points or two and a half. But that's eight evidences, concrete, because we've mostly coordinated these things in the draft coalition contract, paper gets everything, and you've already shown us eight times how right it is that we have left the negotiations. Eight times. That's an interesting number.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant, to prepare Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u236	Thank you. First of all, I am just warning you that the colleague had a procedural process, and the time of our parliamentary group was counted down when he spoke. Of course it is, because I've been watching. I think that at least those of us sitting here today can agree that we have a real quality preschool education in Slovenia. I know that with what my children received, I am extremely pleased, even today, when my daughter is 18 years old in a few days, I remember those educators who actually walked with me through my growing-up period and helped me solve a number of dilemmas. Of course, it is a goal that our country wants to achieve, that is 95 % of the involvement of three- and four-year-olds in kindergarten, very close and I am glad that we are getting closer to it every day. But I'm afraid that such a measure will actually not really help, even though it sounds very nice. I am somewhat disturbed by the re-investment of solutions that have already proved to be inappropriate. As much as you want to minimize the Court of Auditors' opinion today, and you call it, as if we were drawing some of the five strands, some arguments, but the Court of Auditors was very clear at the time, and practice itself has shown a lot of problems. One has already been mentioned today, and I do not know how it is in your congregations, but there is no room in kindergartens in our congregation. Even if we talk about building some extra capacity at the time, I don't know if they did, I didn't go to check it out, but it's actually been a long waiting line in kindergartens for years. And just as this has been presented today, and as the Court of Auditors has said at that time, when this measure was in force, we will not, in fact, bring into line the possibility of including additional children in kindergarten, because capacity is simply occupied. And then there's another set of situations where this solution doesn't actually come up with an expression. One has already been mentioned, it is for children who are the only ones, then it turns out that for one child parents pay more than for two, which is probably not a fair solution and you should think of something better. Or in cases where one child is in kindergarten and the other is in school, which is just as strange that the situation is different. Or what really bothered me the most was that the children were enrolled, that those who already had a brother or a sister in kindergarten had the advantage of staying out on the waiting list again, and those who were enrolled were not actually in kindergarten were not coming at all, but they filled that city. And these are the specific problems then in the field that, like you said, paper carries all of them. You've already mentioned this to the proponents today. Paper takes everything, and then in practice the results are a little different. It also bothered me, as did my colleague Banet, that all day now, in fact, he is operating at various points with some data proving that that measure, which was in force at the time, had actually increased the remuneration of the nursery for the other child. I don't know where you got that information, you didn't mention the numbers, or you didn't mention what those indicators are based on, but of course that's not true. Any numbers we look at, if we look at fertility, or if we look at live births a year, none of these figures confirm that. So please, at least be so honest and then give specific numbers. It is all the time claimed that then fertility rose in 2008, but then 2012 should also fall, but it is not if it was now some concrete effect of this law. And as the colleague has said, we have a birth rate somewhere on the average of the European Union, and it has been roughly the same over the past few years, and there are no significant increases and not some significant falls. But the comment that really attracted me, which I went to look at in a little bit more detail, was Dr. Nade Stropnik's comment from the Institute of Economic Research, which was very clear about this measure and also in fact about all the other measures of family policy, because she also felt that those measures did not actually directly affect any increase in fertility, and she also said that. In addition, it also stated, of course, that there is no real case for some research to identify the long-term positive impact of any family policy action. And to underpin these arguments, she also stated, by the 1980s, we had a fertility rate that went beyond 2.1, followed by a fall, despite very good family policy measures and we had enough places in kindergartens, then we raised child support, and this did not affect fertility, and then, during the crisis, when austerity measures were actually taken, it also turned out that these savings measures did not affect fertility, and actually remained at the same level. And then we get to where we are today, in fact at all points, already during the debate. Society has changed, our mindset has changed. Whether more children are born will be affected by a number of other factors, and not just these specific measures, which, it should be said, have already been taken by this government and made easier for families to take. You know, and it was also your eyewitnesses to share some candy. We've changed a lot of things now and raised some transfers. But we need to start talking, maybe what we talked about at the previous point or two, about sharing some domestic chores equally among all family members, about how women will coordinate their careers and the protection of children or their home life, about what a colleague said about how parents of one of the mothers were driving to breastfeed at work. This is essentially what affects whether in the end a couple will decide for one or two or more children. And we can't now, unfortunately, I have to use this word to deal with populist debates today all day long, because we're narrowing our eyes like a horse to one solution and we're saying, that's what we're about to achieve. But in the real world, things really don't work out that way. Again, I repeat, there are arguments as to why this measure did not take place at the time and what all the problems were on the ground as a result of this measure. And to repeat the same story once again, without learning something for everyone to expect some other results, it probably won't be the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvat, representative of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now it seems a little uninnovative to me that we've been listening to this mandate for the past hundred years, you're re-introducing the law, and again for the second time, for the fourth time, I've been listening to how many times we've invested. This is the first time we have introduced this law in this mandate. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, you received it by all Members at the beginning of your term in paper form, if not, and on the web portal of the National Assembly, a tab of the Political System, a subheading of the Constitution and an even lower text of Article 88. This article has the subtitle or title of the Legislative Initiative. It says: "The laws can be proposed by the government or any Member. The law can also present at least 5,000 voters.” End of Article 88. And please don't keep listening until the end of the term, to her, you've reinstated the law. Then tell us we are in violation of the Constitution or change the Constitution. Change the Constitution. Yes, it is. Draw and take our initiative. If you're taking the budget initiative, then take this legal initiative. I've had enough of this right now, really. Forgive some fiery rhetoric, but this rhetoric is acting in the opposite direction from the plans for a family-friendly society that we hear from you. We, too, must be the ones who want to make a good environment with our discussions, a good fire for our families. Birth in Slovenia is somewhere on the average of the European Union, a colleague of Janja. I agree. But the problem is, we're a two-million-dollar nation. And here are mathematical models for small nations brutal, this will be explained by colleague of technician Branislav Rajić. It's a little different if you have an 80-million-dollar nation or just a two-million-dollar nation. I'm surprised you don't, now you have a minister for work, a family, social affairs, but specifically this law belongs to education, but you would only understand that you have a greater affinity for families, that this is now a different SMC than it was in the previous composition of that great SMC, when we listened to it from one side, I think it was an actor, but it doesn't matter now that we are on this side of glorifying the family. I'm not ashamed to do this to my family. We are for one good family policy in this country. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica? You only have 20 seconds? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u240	Thank you. My colleague Horvath, I didn't say that you're filing this marriage once again, as you probably misunderstood me, I said that you're introducing this measure once again, and it turns out that there were problems that weren't okay, but you're repeating the same thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Blaž Pavlin has the floor. We have two more speakers reported: Vojko Starović and Tomaž Lisec. Here you go, Mr. Pavlin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u242	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! What does today’s Kindergarten Law bring us? The adoption of the law would improve the social situation of families with more than one child in kindergarten. In my opinion, the prices of kindergarten are too high because they represent too much of the family budget with an average salary. We should strive to introduce a free kindergarten for everyone. That would be the fairest thing for everyone. And here I agree with my fellow Servant, perhaps this measure would not produce short-term results on the demographics of birth in Slovenia, but would certainly improve the climate in the long term and lead people to choose more children. In the tax debates, members of the coalition often claim that taxes abroad are higher than in Slovenia. This may be true, but for higher taxes abroad they also get better services, including free kindergarten for all children. You can imagine how you could unload social work centres if you didn't need to work every year on calculations of the distribution of children into payment classes for the payment of kindergartens. We could probably save something here, too. In the future, however, I look forward to the proposal of the Coalition to regulate this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I'm not going to talk about the content itself, but I'd like to repeat that we have the same procedure as the previous two. So again, we face something and the opposition may unrealistically expect us to use your solutions in the area that we wrote in the coalition agreement. I think that your debate, and even the debate is the right one, is in the right direction, but somehow we are looking in a different way at how we are going to solve this problem in a slightly different way. And I think it's unrealistic to expect. I think they're offered, there's something in the coalition agreement, and something the government is preparing. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The word is Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u246	Thank you. The coalition has a solution. The Coalition Treaty states: “We must create conditions in which young people will be better placed to decide for children.” But we have a law in the National Assembly, and that same coalition is against. So much for how much you respect your coalition contract and how much you have in mind. Today we have heard about how you will strive for the ultimate goal – free kindergartens for all. I would like to ask you, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, the financial framework for this solution that you are preparing and will know in this mandate. Because if the problem is to give 21 million euros for this measure proposed by Nova Slovenije, where you will then take it, I will say no money, with your words, where the money comes from. The government, which spent half a billion in hundreds of days buying social peace, does not have 21 million for children. That's what you're saying. And tell me why you don't have 21 million for these kids. Because he's the wrong proposer. That, sir, as your lady of the Party of Alenka Bratušek said, leave them alone and we will not take any of their action. This is this new policy, regardless of your coalition contract. In short, the cost of free kindergartens for everyone and when we can expect this law is the first question. Another issue, as far as 2008, interestingly, the SD backed up the law at the time, and today they will not support a very similar law. Unlike Members of the SD, we are consistent on this right wing, we advocate Slovenian family policy, and we do not vote according to where we are and what time we are. Moreover, two members of the coalition said, “and we know how it was that there was no okay.” It was very good. The 2008 law – the birth rate has increased. Not only because of this measure, but because of the fact that there will be no mistake, I think it has been adopted at the time in one or two packages, five or six laws in the field of family law that have encouraged young men, young women, to decide to go into what is called family policy and to be happy to raise children in Slovenia. It was said where the money needed to be saved. So we'll start saving on the kids. Dear Members of the Coalition, you have begun to save on children. At the very wrong end, you started saving. This measure is a little more expensive than the measure proposed last time by counterpart Zvona Černač in relation to the Karawan tunnel, because this would save $14 million, and the President of the Government is putting his head in the sand, because there they will get the real 14 million, not the Turks, but friends who are close to the coalition's parliamentary groups. Here, because children are of all, not just coalition parliamentary groups, but you don't have 21 million. So much for your consistency, where you'll start saving. And respectable and respected, Zuyf, it will obviously be necessary for all Members, as well as certain old ones who have problems with this Zuyfa, to put this infamous Zuyf on the table once and for all, especially the final and transitional provisions that we have mentioned. And, as my colleague Jože said, the members of Desus also sat at those night sessions, when we said, we will take a little, with a heavy heart, but we committed ourselves that in two years at the latest we will almost completely end Zujf. That was in the fall of 2012. In autumn 2018 this infamous Zujf after the third government of left parties still applies in certain segments. And unfortunately, it applies to certain segments, which are also called family policy. So, Your Honor, next time anyone is operating with Zujf, read Zujf and then look at the mirror, see what your fellow Members of the SD, Desus, SMC, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and reincarnated LMŠ are, from all those items that are coming, which are supposed to be liberal, and they are nowhere near what you did with this infamous Zujf. It's the only place you let him through where you thought. And you obviously don't think it would be right for you to give this infamous Zuyfu a red light and say, not in the children's field, but we won't do that in the family business. And when you speak, the Court of Auditors said something. Dear representatives of SMC, SD and Desus, we have at least two decisions of the Constitutional Court from the previous term, but you do not respect them, and you are pleading for one decision of the Court of Auditors which speaks of children. In short, I would like to conclude, distinguished representatives of the government, what free kindergartens will cost for everyone. But I will conclude with the text that I copied from one of the ladies who sent it to me: “Thank you for fighting for us and for our children, but sooner or later we will all go to Austria, where the family policy is more favourable.”
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u247	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, in which she is given the floor by the representative of the Government of Martina Vuk, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to all Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Much has been said throughout the debate, but I must admit that I was a little confused at times or that I was a little confused at times because much more was said about almost everything else than the specific bill, its consequences, its causes and so on. There has been a lot of general debate, and I regret that I cannot respond so widely. But I can go after some points concerning our kindergarten system, our way of paying and subsidising, providing funds and capacity for kindergartens. I can also respond a little to fertility, to various projections, and to a lot of other things, including financial consequences. And if we go in order, the system of kindergartens in Slovenia. Here I somehow realized that we all share the same view – it is extremely good, it is extremely good and must not be disrupted in any way. Here it seemed to me that we all fully agree and that no one wants to interfere with this kindergarten system and in the way we provide and implement, but in particular not in standards and standards, although slightly indicated. You know that from time to time there are certain desires, so I'll say it, or the requirements for lowering standards in kindergartens. And because, in fact, these indicators that we achieve with kindergartens show that because of the highly educated and quality of the staff, that due to the size or smallness of the groups that we have ensured that because our kindergartens are not just protection, which are kindergartens in many, many other countries, but are education, the whole program, the curriculum that is set for kindergartens, is precisely why we achieve such good standards in this kindergarten and such good indicators. Our kindergartens mean one important balance, let us put it this way, or a way of ensuring equality or reducing the obstacles that a child brings from his primary family. That is why this programme is important and therefore education is important and therefore activities are important and the skills of the staff provided in kindergartens are also important. In order to achieve socialisation, to achieve or eliminate or at least reduce the deficits that some children bring from home, and to ensure that this continuum is then also through entry into primary school, that it is not the first contact with a group, with some organised education process, they also raise only entry into school. The average price of kindergarten paid by our parents is 130 euros, from those who pay zero to those who pay slightly less than 400 euros, which is the maximum price somewhere. The average price in Slovenia is 130 euro. We can talk, but it's a high price or it's a low price, or it's our subsidy system, the way that 77% of the full price is the maximum price that is taken and can be paid, we can talk about whether it's appropriate or not. In fact, I agree that the largest number of parents involved in kindergartens, including statistics, is classified in the 5th and 6th income classes. These are those who pay the price in percentages of 35 or 43 of the full price. The price pressure is on the middle layer or on the lower middle layer because we are looking at the income class, income per person, so of course it also depends on the number of family members. And I will return to this price and to the measures later. When we talk about fertility, because either one of the two basic reasons or even as the primary reason for the introduction or the proposal for this measure has been given an increase in fertility rates. I don't know if you've been looking at statistics, you all know that statistics are probably the devil, because it depends on how certain things are calculated, how they are interpreted, especially depending on how we view them, and how we view them in comparison with other countries or with those we compare ourselves with. And you will not believe, the rate of birth in Slovenia is growing. The rate of birth in Slovenia is growing. She grew up last year, too. However, what happened last year and therefore it is not true that there is a downward trend, last year, despite the increase in birth rates to 1.62, the number of children born by a few more than 100 children decreased by 2016. Why? Because, I said, statistics are the devil, because the way it's calculated is that it's crucial how many women are born-age. So when we look at the analysis of Umar, when we look at the projections of Umar, you've probably all seen these projections and also the comments of Umar, which say that even with such measures, we can't get to 2,1 with such an increase in fertility, which ensures the renewal of the generation that ensures this survival, that we keep the population count, so that all the subsystems in the country that were built on this structure, the former, on the former pyramid, not the kind that we have now, which is no longer a pyramid, can run smoothly without any other action. Therefore, a strategy for a long-lived society has also been adopted and all these foundations and projections have therefore been made in order for this strategy to be adopted. And that is why a resolution on family policy has been adopted. That's why. However, its primary objective and primary objective of family policy measures is to maximize the quality of life of people, families in this case, in particular children. The higher the quality of life. Because then we can also talk about an encouraging environment that encourages people to make decisions about family creation according to their wishes. Because what the state can do is allow such an environment that enables people or that does not remove people from their desire to create a family and from the number of children they want to have. And also various analyses and opinions from experts show that it is not really possible to determine what either that set of measures or one measure would have led to the now frantic sharp growth of fertility in the country. However, the contraction and reduction of certain rights and ratings can lead to a reduction in fertility, and this can be noted, especially because of fear, of course, is a key factor where people start to act even more rationally than they would otherwise, even though they do not know how their circumstances will change, but, rather, they act cautiously because they do not know what the future will be. And I'm not going to mention Zuif, but still. What were we doing about Zuif? We released these measures, which were limited at the time. We released them. We can go look after years. We can count them. We've listed them every year. Because we were sitting together about the same person you're now wondering what you were doing. We can go through the whole list again. That's what we did. Because first it was necessary to get to the level of nothing so that we could move somewhere. Because, like I said, once it's cut off and taken away, it's hard to get back to that level. By the way, when we mentioned the pension fund earlier, it's no longer self-sustaining, but it's the transfer of the budget, and from 1.1 billion to 1.6 billion, we've already had the transfer of the budget to the pension fund to be sustainable. But that's a different subject. When we talk about the involvement of children in kindergartens in shareholdings, they were mentioned and that we will be precise. A total of all children in Slovenia in the preschool age, i.e. between one and six years of age or from eleven months of age, and when they can be enrolled in preschool in Slovenia, 80.4% of all children are enrolled. Of this, in the age group from one to three years 69% and in the age group from four to six years 93% of all children. As we now compare ourselves a little, we are looking at the EU objectives to which we are committed – 33% of all children in this country in kindergarten should be included at the age of one to three years, according to the objectives of the European Union. So we've already doubled this number. After four to six years of age, which in many countries other countries of the European Union are already considered to be the beginning of schooling, the numbers are so different and we are not yet starting school, but the target is 95%, the number we reach is 93%. So we're on the right track. What remains to be said is that over the past few more than ten years, for 20 percentage points, the rate of child participation in kindergarten has nearly risen, which means that we are making good progress. Of course, the objective is 100% inclusion. Because of what I mentioned at the outset, because our kindergartens are not just protection and therefore differ from what was said earlier, from Canadian kindergartens, in Switzerland, for example, children go to 12 homes and at two back to kindergarten, because they eat lunch at home and have a rest at home this afternoon. What an incentive this is then for the employment of parents, for unloading, for public services, as they should be. Malta didn't know kindergarten until recently, for example, and so on and so forth. Germany, for example Berlin, has introduced free kindergartens because it is regionally regulated there. When we are more detailed, we are not yet detailed enough, but so, we asked ourselves, in fact, he introduced a free programme, but he did not introduce the indemnity of kindergartens, because parents are still paying for food and for some other costs, which is roughly between €120 and €150. So, why is the ultimate goal a free kindergarten? Because these effects that our kindergarten provides weigh this, this cartridge, step by step that needs to be submitted in order for all children to have the opportunity to be included in kindergartens. However, if we do this overnight, we can experience what happened in 2008 or 2009. It happened that it wasn't hard for me to talk when it all echoed in my ears. [[…]] Please. I've been hanging out for a long time now, and I'm asking you to listen, and I've got 16 minutes to go, and not anymore, so... [[…]] When we talk about some of the measures that we would take overnight, and now you can read the last 20, 30, 5, 10, however many years this government has just exceeded 100 days. 100 days. 100 days. Again, 100 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u249	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u250	We can talk because it's nice to talk, I just don't think it's meant to be. We can talk somewhere else and we can talk. I don't feel any crazy affection for debate. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u251	I asked for peace, please! Be respectful of the secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking you not to jump into my time because I didn't jump in yours either. As far as these sudden changes are concerned, we may find ourselves in the situation that happened at the time that the municipalities were unable to provide sufficient capacity. The municipalities could not follow this sudden significant increase in the number of children enrolled. And then what happened? Despite a good measure that was encouraging, which, of course, encouraged the child’s involvement in kindergarten, this child eventually had to become involved in some private care. And you know what we get with these private security? You probably don't need to be reminded of any, even lately, things that have broken out. What we get is that we go or that some go about innovative ways of free entrepreneurial initiative and promote themselves as a kindergarten when it's not. That's dangerous, too. That's why we need capacity. That is why we need a sufficient number of kindergartens that meet all these required standards and standards, because this is the only way to ensure quality. Quality we have in Slovenia. Let me say that the proportion of children involved in public education in Slovenia is 98.04%, so the pressure on municipalities is always so strong that I mentioned the municipalities as key stakeholders because they are the ones who provide capacity. And unfortunately, the state can help with its investment funds, where a call for investment in primary schools and kindergartens can be made, but since 2011, there has been no such call because — where has it started to shrink? In addition to the rights of the people at the time, Zuyfa and others began to shrink in terms of investment. And then this circle is concluded, especially if we are aware that the financial perspective, the previous one, which had huge investment assets that were then used regionally, and that a lot of the municipality has built up, and the kindergarten and school have not built a cultural home, a cooperative home and so on, today or in this financial perspective, in the next investment fund, because it is not possible to spend European money for these purposes. That's why there's so much pressure and so much concern. Because it has been mentioned several times today, why are you now saying that €21.5 million is a financial consequence which is so difficult to ensure. I don't know if you've been listening to my opening statement, but I'm going to repeat it again, that was just a conclusion. According to the proposaler's calculation, 21.5 million euros will have to be provided for this purpose, nothing else, nothing else, only this finding was no dispute. I just think it's positive that you thought and thought in your proposal that it would be right not to burden the congregations with this cost, but to burden the country. It was just your conclusion that it was such a cost and that the cost was there. He probably does. When we talk about the coalition agreement, of course we know the coalition agreement and we know what it says in there. And also if you listened at the beginning, you have heard that I mentioned that this ultimate goal of free kindergarten for all children in Slovenia is enshrined in the coalition agreement and is a coalition commitment. But you know how long the coalition agreement is signed. Definitely not for the first 100 days of government operation. [[advertising from the hall]] Bravo, that's right, for four years, because that's how long the government and the coalition usually lasts. That's why [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u253	Mr Pojbič, I ask you kindly to respect the third paragraph of Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, which says - shall I read it to you? [[advertising from the hall]] Who says the chairman is concerned that no one bothers the speaker during the speech. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, of course, this is our final goal, but to reach this final goal, we cannot say, with 1. 1. 2019 or with 1. 1. 2020 will apply in Slovenia a free kindergarten for all, one article in the law and the matter is resolved. We cannot, because we are aware of the responsibility that this commitment brings, and because we are aware of what must be done, what steps must be taken to come to a conclusion of the best way to do this. They have also been in the past, I don't know if this has been presented, but in the past, a few years ago, calculations have been made, what it would mean to give together the total mass for children's allowances and the total amount of income allowances for the maintenance of family members, i.e. for children. We have come to the point of introducing a universal children's allowance, where every child in the country from 0 to 18 gets the same amount of a child's allowance in order to mean about 50 euros per child. And we know that today we have a range of 0 to, I think, 160 euros in the amount of the child supplement. So this distribution would be again, I don't know how fair from this point of view. Universality is in a society where all conditions are optimal, the right one, because with universality you give the right message, with universality you give those incentives that are intended for them. And the children's allowance, we have always said this, is not a measure or at least certainly not a full social policy measure, but is, in particular, a primary measure of family policy. But if we are in a society that is not optimal, because no society is optimal, we want to ensure the highest possible quality of life for people, especially for families and especially for children, then we need to strive for targeted measures. At that time, this universality, if universality is to be guaranteed, must be guaranteed in public services. There must be equal quality and equal accessibility for all. And by ensuring that, we achieve a reduction of inequality in society. When it was said earlier that we cannot talk about the equality of children, not about the equality of children, but about the equality of children. You know, we still have the principle of equality. And this principle of equality speaks both of equal rights, of equal treatment and of the inadmissibility of distinction in relation to any personal situation. This is how we explain gender equality, as well as all other equality in society. It's not about equality. It's about equality. And this equality is defined, it's not just meant to be. It has its reasons, its consequences and its orientation. Not because we made this up, but because all of the international integrations in which we participate tend to achieve these same goals and are obliged to achieve them or at least to approach them. If I finish. Our common goal, of course, must be to ensure the highest possible quality of life for people in general, families and children. Even when adopting some other family regulations, including children, in the area of family policy, it has been made clear that the family is the basic and basic cell in our country and that children are the ones who need to be particularly protected and especially must be set up for their benefit. As far as communication, communication, orientation is concerned, there should be no doubt and no difference in what we all want together. But the roads there are clearly different. And that is why we also have different views, which marriage proposals to support or not, which measures will lead to these common objectives and which way will we go. But this is also one of the charms of parliamentary democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u255	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing it's an interest in time-sharing. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposer, Joseph Horvat and the representative of the Government, please sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Every debater has five minutes of time at his disposal. The first one has the word Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u256	Thank you. I find it difficult to sum up the general debate that the Secretary of State has afforded. It is a fact that she knows the area because she has been in the field of work, family and social affairs, I think that 5 or 6 years of State Secretary and when she talked about what needs to be done, I wonder what she has not done in these years, when, above all, she is in 2017 and 2018 such a top quality, which she has given us in abundance, but was still not so good in abundance that she did not give 21 million to young Slovenian families or children in kindergartens. I expected you, Madam Secretary of State, to say that 21 million is a calculation of the applicants, but that you would serve what this measure will cost. Not only are you personally involved, but the whole hierarchy of both the Ministry of Education and the people of the Ministry of Finance could serve, I believe that within two hours, what this measure would cost. But the measure is not good, no matter how much it costs, the final point of the Ministry of Education, which says that it is aware of what you have entered into the coalition contract, free kindergarten for all, but that you have no idea how much it will cost, regardless of whether this measure would enter into force on 1 January 2019, 1 September 2019, or perhaps at the end of this tragedy of this government, let's say September 2021. In short, they wrote a story in a coalition contract called free kindergarten for everyone, but you have no idea how much it's going to cost. So much for the seriousness of opponents of a specific law proposed by Members of the New Slovenia Group. Let me get this straight. For many years, we have been discussing this in the National Assembly, as she said, I think today the Secretary of State: the family is a fundamental cell and children must be protected. But this same coalition that writes it in every coalition contract because it comes in just like a bunch of other flossules doesn't support one little piece. While most coalition promoters say that no, since this would be enormous pressure on the congregations, on the other hand, boasts how the involvement of children is already almost 100 percent, in fact only a few hundred more children need to be brought to kindergarten. In short, those who talk about how mayors should build new kindergartens boast about how the state and the congregation have taken care of these new kindergartens. The inconsistentity of law-abiding opponents is evident. But most of all, the debates of those who supported such a law in 2008 are against them, because they were obviously eared and they said, "God forbid you to support the law that comes from the peres of SDS or New Slovenia." These three hours could soon be thrown away, except for good debates, perhaps one or two members of the coalition. If you come to the National Assembly next time with only one sentence, distinguished representatives, representatives of the Government: we do not support the law because it is the wrong proposalr, thank you for your attention. Thank you for your attention, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u258	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues, colleagues, I don't think it's as bad as Tomaž just described. The fact is, I agree with colleagues who point out the financial consequences. I also agree with this debate that every time we talk about the financial consequences of individual laws, we say, and there we can provide 20 million. But if we look at one broader picture of this law, we can quickly see that other aspects of this important issue must be taken into account when dealing with the costs of kindergarten. I am one of those who advocates some thesis that the state must also take care of its naturalistic policy that it must promote birth. One such country, such as Slovenia, is ultimately asking about the sustainability of the pension system. And yet, all the time, when I talk about it, I ask what the real system is. I don't agree with the view that, I don't know, some secret service control committee has found that and that and that they need more children who might be on some sort of front somewhere in the final phase of the canonfuter. I think we need to look at the naturalistic policy mainly in terms of the sustainability of some social systems, but not as much as some strategic tool. Finally, we must be aware of our limitations that we are a country with two million inhabitants. When I talked about having to look at the cost of kindergarten from a broader perspective, I'll tell you one example. I have three kids. The youngest kid went to kindergarten last year. When we applied for kindergarten, we received a home notification from our new kindergarten in Brežice that they no longer have seats available for children of the first age period and that our application will be entered into the application log for rejected applications and that I will be informed if they are available and when they will have a seat. In view of the fact that there is also a record on the Ministry of Education’s website of what kind of waiting lists are and how many free places there are in kindergarten, it was evident that this is not so that it does not confirm that notification. Then my complaint followed, and in the end, we managed to use the kindergarten to open this department, and within a short period of time, it built up quite a few children who then filled this department. I want to say that when we talk about kindergartens, that we want to encourage young people to make decisions about children, that if kindergarten is even a tool for this, we need to ask ourselves, then we need to be so consistent that, on the other hand, if we provide cheap or free kindergartens to also provide places in kindergarten. I think without that, we're talking for nothing today. But we don't talk about places in kindergarten in this marriage. Sadly, this part of the marriage is fundamentally flawed. On the question of whether this is an appropriate measure, however, one of its views might be added. I have heard today some debate that this has already been adopted in the past and that in 2008, I do not know, 2009, there was an increase in the number of children born. As I mentioned, I have more children, and even then one of us was born, and I must say that not by any means because of the action of any of the then governments. I think it's a system of values that we're going to adopt or not, not a system of some mathematics, of calculating certain costs. If the cost of our lives is also the cost of our children's lives. There's always been people fighting to survive them. That'll be ahead of schedule. If we are to encourage an increase in the number of births of children, we will probably have to apply some other measures that may be less cost-effective in nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Nina Maurovich has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u260	Thank you so much for saying that, President! Today, we have been called on several times by members of the coalition not to answer and it has been suggested that we do not do so because we probably agree. I'll tell you why we're calling less. The main part of the November and December sessions is dealing with proposals for laws tabled by the opposition and, in fact, are recycling. They have already been invested in certain past mandates and have also been rejected for justified reasons. So this concrete law that we are talking about right now is actually a welcome refreshment from this point of view, because it is new. But we will see at the next item in the agenda that we will return to the already known cycle. Today we met with some exceptional women from the economy this afternoon and talked to them about the situation of women in society and other problems facing modern women. Of course, we are talking about educated, successful women who travel a lot, meet other successful women, and are also mothers. After an hour and a half of conversation we actually came up with one common knowledge, and this is that Slovenia offers women mothers one of the best career opportunities. Why? Their answer was because we have an excellent network of kindergartens because we have a long and generous maternity allowance because kindergartens and school care are available until late afternoons and are very cheap compared to the countries of the European Union. Madam, who is from the Lions Club, cited the examples, she is with Primorska, a colleague of Italians who do almost everything in a row during part-time because kindergartens are so extremely expensive or it is very difficult for children to enter into kindergarten and then have to serve a variety of babysitters and other alternatives, which are so very expensive that they simply cannot afford a career. But today no one has pointed to one interesting thing that we have actually known since 1798, and that is the demographic economic paradox. It speaks of income and fertility in inversely proportional correlation. The higher the level of education, the higher the per capita GDP, the lower the birth rate, and this is not something we invented in Slovenia, but all the economically developed countries face it. And what happens at the time of the recession? Reverse. The birth rate's rising. And this has also been happening to us in Slovenia over the past years, so I wouldn't actually be bragging about it, because in the light of the demographic economic paradox, in fact, it's probably due to the decline and deterioration of the material situation. However, we also heard a very unsavoury possibility, in my opinion, about the choice between Slovenian children and migrant children. With such fear of migrant children and such terrible fear and concern for birth, I ask you directly, which of you has more than two children. Because three plus is too small. Some people don't have one. Only in this case would these comments be in my eyes on the spot. I will say this, we can always be better, but with the measures we have discussed today, we will certainly not increase our fertility, because this problem is being addressed by a much richer and much more developed country than we are and has not yet been resolved. Except with the migrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u262	Thank you so much for saying that. A few answers with regard to the discussions of the predecessors. Colleague Nina Maurovich, when I listened to you, I had the feeling that we had written into a coalition contract that kindergarten would be free in the future, because in your opinion everything is nice and right and there is no need to change anything in Slovenia because mothers are satisfied. I believe that successful mothers are satisfied, because if we look at them, probably kindergarten itself does not come as expensive, because these boundaries are very wide, not as narrow as it looks. Earlier, Mr. SMC Member, who in principle likes to play a little bit, said: “Yes, assistant educators have very low salaries, and this is what we should talk about.” And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we are hearing from a Member who has been in the government in the past term and is in the government today. You know, these are the double criteria or the ridicule of everyone when someone discusses how things should be handled, and they had scissors and a canvas for that. That the story is even more sad, we have just adopted a law on the public sector wage system, where we could at least partially fix it. Well, you didn't! Because you've essentially extended the Zuif measure not only, but you've turned it into a permanent measure. Although Zuyf said that when 2.5% of economic growth is achieved, all measures will be abolished. This in response to the Secretary of State, when she said: “We have abolished Zujf.” Today, Zuifa should no longer be, as economic growth is almost 5%. When we talk about the government proposing free kindergarten for all children, today we have a proposal that free kindergarten is for another child. Now I really don't understand if the government thinks that this action will take place overnight if it sees a huge obstacle today to being a free kindergarten for at least another child. I have listened in virtually most of the debates by the coalition Members and Members in particular to why something cannot be done. But that's when it's gonna work? Yeah, I know why. Because such a bill will take place just before the next elections and will encompass the next government. I believe that there will be no such action during the time of this government. It was said we had good kindergartens. That's right. Our kindergartens also perform educational and educational effects. They have them, and it's very important. However, I ask you why education is paid in these schools. Primary school is free. If we have an education system, we could already assess at least this aspect and separate protection from education. When you talk about how difficult it is, how spatial pressures are, I would remind you of the admission of a 9-year primary school in Slovenia. Ninety-year-olds we all call her. At that time, what will happen to educators and assistant educators who have grown taller in kindergartens? Because those kids went from kindergarten to school a year earlier. Did someone deal with the pressures in schools because they had to provide suitable facilities for a particular generation? We did this because it was thought to be appropriate and good. And here we have the possibility of free kindergarten for another child. Statistics show how many children are involved in kindergarten today, and we can see that you are looking for obstacles. In good ten days or this week, if I say a little flat-rate, you threw yourself out the window or at least spent half a billion euros. By negotiating for the so-called social peace, and by withdrawing Hungary from the second track, another matter could be listed. Last time we lost $400 million to a bad NLB sale. So I ask you, coalition, not to look for ways to do something, but to start looking for solutions as you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you all, dear colleagues, for your debate. We've been spinning it for a long time, and – we're kind of the winners in the first stage. Why? Because I can see that we have guided you, somehow we have encouraged all of us to think in a very similar way together. Which is true. Which is also enshrined in the coalition agreement. We understand that from some of your discussions. Thank you also to the Government, Secretary of State. In a way, I regret that Dr. Anya Copač Dark is no longer a colleague. And I apologize to the Slovenian public, Slovenian families, that I am the first to be signed under this law of New Slovenia. So the problem is not the solution, the problem is who is the proposer. This is now perfectly clear. I apologize for following my political opponent, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, and reading her plan for a friendly society for families when she says: “Family policy is independent and we try to move it away from social life, so we are talking about a desire to bring about the universality of rights.” We follow that. And even cheaper kindergartens. “In kindergartens we advocate greater flexibility of working time. Accessibility and price are also a problem. Parents pay between 22% and 70% of the price. In Germany and elsewhere, kindergartens are much cheaper. This is an important cost for us and it will be necessary to look for a way to reduce it and increase the involvement of children mainly from the third year," said Minister Anja Kopač Mrak. I must apologize – I hope they do not throw me out of the party – because we are following the Minister, the former of course, Anji Kopač Dark. I don't know why she's gone somewhere else now. You're asking us where to take the money. It could double this financial impact already on the table. Although I have already written a universal payment order – for 42 million – for the presidents of the coalition parties of the previous coalition, which last June stopped the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank – we have now sold it – but we have lost at least 42 million. The financial impact of this law is 21 million. Zuif, once again — our heart broke when we had to accept it because the country was before bankruptcy. What does it say in Zuyfu? That measures stop when economic growth exceeds 2.5% of GDP in the previous year. Now you've been on the government for how many years? Six years. And you didn't do it. But you don't accept our suggestions. This is also some kind of "un-Zujf" if I may use this ugly word. But – the proposalr is wrong. I really need to apologize to the Slovenian families. I've never said that there's no marriage, but you've all hanged yourself, or most of you, to the point that this measure will now help raise fertility. Come on, come on, I'm in the world long enough and we're in Parliament long enough to know that such a measure does not help fertility overnight. The key is what my friend Zorčič said. The system of values, I say the state of the spirit. With today’s rhetoric, have we been able to improve the climate, and have we been able to improve the condition of the spirit? Have we stressed the family values of young people when asked what and who matter most to them, saying that their family means the most to them? But today we have been able to improve this climate through these two hours — or as much as we speak? Let citizens and citizens say that. I hope that the Ministry responsible for kindergartens, if I may say so, will already be able to push this programme on free kindergartens, which is in the coalition agreement, into the next programme of work of the Government for 2019. I conclude with what I have learned from world-renowned sociologists: people are not equal, people are not equal, but we are equal. And that is how we think our children should be treated, in our opinion. And that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u265	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Wednesday 19 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 12. 2018, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is firstly the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members, with first signed by Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members, with the first-signed Daniel Krivecs, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Jean Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Wine Act is another law that proves how bureaucratic we behave in this country and how we need to prescribe every matter, every procedure, every step, and many times, we do precisely so that people decide to abandon this or that activity. In the case of the wine law, which was amended in 2013, and whose amendments came into force on 1 January 2014, this is precisely the case. At that time, it was not a question of how to make Slovenian legislation as attractive as possible for small vineyards as possible, how to make Slovenian legislation so that small vineyards would encourage them not to abandon their activities, not to cut down vineyards, how new legislation would make them exactly the opposite, to encourage small vineyards to grow even more what they already have, so that they would not be given additional bureaucratic obstacles around their necks and impose new and new costs on them in the production of wine, but how will we, say, halve those who are playing with the rules and so on. Well, then the change came in order to prevent the pouring of unbleached wine, in particular by amending paragraphs 1 and 2. After this law came this ban. What we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party is to prohibit or abolish the ban on the pouring of uncontaminated wine, and we are also proposing to reduce penalties which, according to the law applicable before the amendment of 2013, or which entered into force in 2014, are too high. It can happen that someone who violates the law is, even with financial means, possibly representing the entire year’s crop. Article 44 states in the second paragraph: "No matter what the provisions of the preceding paragraph, wine which is not originally loaded may only be placed on the market of the final consumer by producers registered in accordance with this Act as producers of grapes and wines, offering wine from their own production of grapes and wines in their production establishment registered in the register, except for premium wines of protected geographical origin. We propose to amend this Article in a way that, irrespective of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, wine which is not originally loaded may be placed on the market by the final consumer producers if it is registered under this law as producers of grapes and wines and if it offers PGO land wine, it shall be recognised as having a geographical indication, of its own production of grapes and wine and of its production plant registered in the register, and for that activity, by registered guest establishments meeting the conditions laid down in respect of premises, equipment and skills if they offer PGO land wine from that area. What we want to do with this law is to encourage the sale of wine also in small vineyards in a way that we do not burden them with additional financial costs, when wine needs to be filtered, when additional wine cleaners need to be added, when wine needs to be bottled and so on. In the following, I will also tell you in some cases that what you're saying is how the black or gray economy got angry in this case that it's not true. We are simply in favour of the fact that the guest houses, as they were before, could also pour wine to those small vine growers who are now in a subordinate position as far as financial expenditure is concerned. So we invite the debate and I believe that in Slovenia, when we talk about a boutique destination with five stars, small wine growing is still important.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u267	Thank you very much. For the opening presentation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry is not a diet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u268	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Daniel to blame, submitted to the National Assembly for the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act. The proposer of the bill proposes an amendment to Article 44 of the Wine Act, which sets out the form in which wine can be placed on the market of the final consumer, providing that the applicable law provides that wine can only be placed on the market of the final consumer. At the same time, it allows for an exception to the fact that unoriginally loaded wine can be placed on the market by the final consumer, wine growers offering wine from their own production, to the final consumer in their production plant. The proposer proposes an amendment in such a way as to extend the exemption for the placing on the market of non-originally loaded wine to catering establishments offering country wine from this area. At the same time, it proposes to limit the existing exemption for wine growers who could offer only non-original non-original wine to the final consumer in their production plant. The proposer also proposes to amend Articles 56 and 57 of the Law, which lay down fines for serious and other offences, by proposing a reduction of the prescribed fines for certain cases. The Government notes that the Articles of the Wine Law were the subject of amendments to the Law in 2013, when the Government prepared a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Wine Law on the initiative of wine producers with the primary objective of limiting unfair competition to registered wine processing. In order to achieve this objective, it was limited to pour unoriginally stuffed wine in guest establishments, to simplify the penal procedure and to increase penalties for offences. In 2013, the proposed amendments were prepared by a working group composed of representatives of winemakers, organisations combining 16 large wine cellars, 78 family vineyard farms and associations of wine growers and winemakers and representatives of wine inspection. The key debate in the National Assembly had already taken place at the time of the adoption of the law, in addition to the fines which had been reduced by the amendment of the Committee to half of the Government's proposal and the Government's proposal followed the proposal of the winemakers, to another area, which focused on the prohibition of the sale of unbleached wine. It was pointed out at that time that wine poured from properly labelled containers suitable for food and closed in such a way that it was not possible to re-close after opening, without any notice, was considered to be an original filling and could continue in the inn following the adoption of the novel. In accordance with the basic law of 2006, the unoriginally loaded wine can only be poured in wine-growing areas, not in central Slovenia or in Gorenjska. That the restriction does not apply to the filling of musts and that the provision does not prejudice the loading of unoriginally loaded wine in the cellars of growers, as we have already said. The Government therefore notes that the proposal for a law on the form in which wine can be placed on the market and in the field of fines is intended to establish a state before the entry into force of the 2013 law and proposes even some fines that are lower than those in the 2006 basic law. This proposal does not follow the basic principle of the wine law – consumer protection and protection of grape and wine growers. At the same time, we would like to point out that the implementation of the law five years ago in the field did not cause any problems. On the contrary. We note that the proportion of wines not suitable for sale due to faults or disease has decreased by 80% and the proportion of non-identical wines in circulation has decreased by 30%. These findings of the inspection authorities are in favour of the law in force. For these reasons, the Government opposes the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Wine Act and considers that it is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u269	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first is by the Group of Members of the Party Alenka Bratušek and the Member of the Party Andrej Šushmelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u270	President, thank you for your word! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am honored to discuss the proposal for a wine law because I come from the best possible wine-growing environment, with the largest wine cellar in Slovenia. The story of wine, remember, is a story of success and the great potential of Slovenia. The quality of Slovenian wines is rising and gaining more recognition at international competitions. We have two, up to three winemakers on a scale of the world's 100 best winemakers. Where'd that come from? Maybe even because of the Wine Act. In 2013, the Wine Act experienced certain changes that are the subject of today's debate. The main objective of these changes was to ensure and transfer more effective control of the state of winery and to limit unfair competition to registered wine production. Measures to achieve this objective have, inter alia, focused on limiting the flow of unoriginally loaded wine in catering establishments, simplifying the penal procedure and increasing the penalties for offences. It is essential to draw attention together to who has prepared the proposals for these amendments. It wasn't some kind of money greedy, a state apparatus that would hang to fill its pockets or state budget. Nor are bureaucrats who would not dream about the situation on the ground and write laws that have no contact with reality. They were prepared by a working group composed of representatives of winemakers, associations of wine cellars, vineyard farms and associations of wine growers and wine growers and representatives of the Wine Inspection. So it's the people on the ground themselves. If anyone else could claim to have led some controversial interest in wine inspectors, it is very difficult to imagine that winemakers would spit in their own bowls and help design solutions that would not be good for them. The SDS Group has already tabled a amendment to the Wine Act in its previous government reference, and it was already found that both the agricultural ministry and the winegrowers oppose the amendments. Thus, at the time of their previous consideration of the novelty, they pointed out that they were afraid that the re-authorisation of unboiled wine would bring exactly what the law had limited to a certain extent — a greater unfair competition that they had fought before and with which they were fighting to a certain extent today. In doing so, we must not forget that the fight against unfair competition, after all, was a guide and a fundamental reason for the amendment of this law. It would be unwise to return to the previous condition, to say the least, unwise and reckless. We must also touch on the reduction of penalties that are too high and disproportionate to the offences referred to in the articles of the law. The motioner says that such high penalties do not have a dissuasive purpose, but merely an excessively frightening one. In fact, it is not entirely clear what the difference is or what the applicant wishes to communicate with such an argument. If a person is overly intimidated by something that does not deter him, the penalties should be increased even further, not reduced. On the other hand, it is often heard among opponents of the law that penalties are lifelessly high, but it is forgotten that the potential offender always has a choice not to commit any offence. We all know that the low penalties have never been excessively dissuasive. And that's what led the composers in 2013. It is also interesting that the applicant focused mainly on lowering the penalty for large and medium-sized producers, although it is intended to fight for a small producer in the first place. Just one case. The maximum penalty for a large producer who produces grapes, musts, wine or other products as a natural person has been reduced from €15 000 to €300, and the average producer has dropped from €11 000 to €700 for the same offence and the highest possible penalty for the same offence has remained unchanged, €6 000 500. Does that even make any sense? Given that the penalties have been formulated in proportion to the size of the producer and the extent and the gravity of the offence, it would be expected that similar proportionality in the proposed preferences will also lead the applicant, but this has not happened. It was at the beginning of this month that I was visited by a winemaker from my places in my office and in a picturesque and juicy language he explained to me what the proposed changes would lead to. He also said that he remembered too well the times when one wine was officially sold, in fact it was another wine, and the vine from which it was produced did not even grow on Slovenian soil, but the wine was brought from Croatia. In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we agree with the Government, and we believe that the proposed amendments would reduce both consumer protection and the protection of farmers. Both groups would have been injured. In addition, the proposed changes would lead to a decline in the quality of Slovenian wines, which are making excellent progress on both domestic and international markets and are enjoying an ever-increasing reputation. I can therefore conclude that we will not support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Ambassador Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! In our previous mandate, Members of the Desus Group have already rejected a similar attempt to amend the applicable Wine Act, which is also like the proposal before us today, to introduce a provision to allow the re-filling of unbleached wine in guest houses and to reduce penalties for offences. In our parliamentary group, we also believe in this mandate that the adoption of this novelty would once again increase the unfair competition between winemakers, which they wanted to eliminate with the adoption of the law in force in 2013. These restrictions were then required by the winegrowers, as unfair competition and the pouring of cheap counterfeits undermined the reputation of the profession and the price of quality wine. The winemakers also suggested that fines be increased to the current level. The bill has had quite a positive effect. After the adoption of the applicable law, registration in the register of winegrowers and winegrowers has increased significantly, proving that the law has indeed contributed to the reduction of unfair competition. The competent inspections have found that the penalties increased in 2013 have had a strongly dissuasive effect as the number of infringements detected has decreased dramatically over the last four years. The rules on labelling and packaging of wine have also been amended last year, allowing, inter alia, the filling of quality wines of protected geographical origin into glass and all other packaging suitable for food storage. In this way, the cost of filling the wine is still reduced, as in addition to the country's wine it can also be filled with quality wine in a cheaper plastic packaging. At the same time, tourist farms, which are also engaged in wine production in addition to tourism, allow them to pour unoriginally stuffed wine, since tourist farms are considered a production plant and not a catering establishment. In the Desus Group, we believe that Slovenian wines, which are of exceptional quality, deserve an appropriate packaging, which retains this quality and at the same time the buyer has a different attitude towards wine, which is in quality packaging. At the same time, the consumer shall be protected from misleading and shall be ensured that he receives the quality for which he also pays, and not the counterfeit which is, as far as possible, treated with any artificial flavour. We also assess that such proposals, which would allow the re-filling of price counterfeits, are not appropriate for adoption. Members of the Desus Group will therefore not support the amendment of the Wine Law because we believe that the proposed amendments do not follow the basic principles of the applicable law, which are the protection of consumers and the protection of producers of grapes and wines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u274	Nothing to fear, nothing to open, so once again, Madam Secretary of State, Mr President, all present. [[…]] Today we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Wine Act. As you know, Mr Mahnic already said that the law was passed in 2013 and was then enacted in January 2014 and is still in force today. The existing legislation states that whoever has 0.05 hectares of land to produce grapes and wine, that is 5 acres and more, must be registered in the register of grape and wine growers. This is regulated by our administrative units. There are two problems. The law provides for a ban on unboiled wine or on domestic rinfusis. With regard to the high penalties, I would like to mention that these were fines for offences ranging from €75 to €28 000. It is true, however, that legal persons must also be mentioned here that they are also covered so that there is no misunderstanding. I've got a copy here of what this bottle is for. I would like to point out that the cultivation of grapes or wine itself is essentially covered here in these letters. But we want these little vine growers who have up to a thousand vines or less and produce grapes if we figure out the price of the market price, this bottle, this bottle and everything else that belongs to it just comes too expensive and is in a subordinate position compared to those large vineyards that have, say, 40,000 litres of filling, against one that has 800, 600 or 1,000 litres of filling. And here's the problem for these little vine growers to stay, if they don't, we'll just wipe them out of our wine-growing environments. The proposed law is without prejudice to the basic principle of the Wine Act and is more lifelike. It allows small producers of grapes and wine to sell their unboiled wine without any additional costs. I'm talking about the cost. I must stress that the current law is abnormal, not life, leaves doubts about some normal business environment. I'm talking about small vine growers, those who have vineyards up to a thousand canes. Costs are higher. They already have one crop problem. They don't have anywhere, they wait every year for what they're going to be, or they're going to grow if they do, or they're going to be able to sell them. Even today, some vineyard is simply erased. He's not here. And what's going on? One there, the other there, the third there, and -- what are we going to have? Our vineyards will simply begin to grow. And what will result from this? Contaminated land, worthless. And strangers will come. The buyers will buy this land. What's gonna happen? We're going to come 20 years ago to the fact that we used to be Janists on our own land. And that's coming back. Let me remind you, we have already had an increase in cadastral income at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. This is once again a nail for small farmers, farmers who will come to terms in 2020. Also on the Committee on Agriculture, we had the initiative of these large producers, the vineyards mentioned here today. These are interest groups. Those small producers did not have a say in 2013 in this law, which is in force today. There we even had the initiative to have these small vineyards – to establish complementary activities. That's amazing. And that's another nail those little growers would get in the back. But, thank God, there's only one thing left to do. The debate was, thank God, no epilogues. But I'm afraid these interesting groups of producers you're talking about will come to terms. Here I do not agree with the SAB gentleman, who said that they have the best wines and that they have the largest cellar. I think the closet, from where I come from, is even bigger and even better. Well, everyone's gonna defend their own. In the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly support the proposal for a law. I appeal to all those small producers – keep them in mind when you press the keys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Ambassador Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u276	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Why the News of the Wine Act? Either because the opposition is making a law or this has come from some needs, from some statistics, and from analyses of where this industry is essentially leading. The data I will provide are data from the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, which can be said to be a fundamental institution and which notes that only over 5 hectares of land is possible for the economic production of wine. Depending on the size structure, they have the export potential of the environment: Brda, Slovenian Istria, Vipavska dolina, Štajerska Slovenije, Kras, Bizellsko and other environments. A few statistics, just to give you some kind of support. In 1991, Slovenia had about 26,000 hectares of vineyards. At this point, it is estimated that some 16,000 are reported, and some 20,000 to 21,000 hectares of vineyards are visible from the aerials themselves. It's kind of an evaluation. In fact, it is found to be full of fertility, i.e. in the highest quality, in Slovenia there are only 13,000 hectares of vineyards. That's the sad stats. I'm referring here to a colleague who was in front of me. Slovenia is growing, young growers can say, give up, give up, and thus completely change the landscape. I am coming myself and will confirm that we have the best wine in the Slovenian Gorica, where only the name says – perhaps a little joke, a little truth. On the other hand, look at the following catastrophic statistics. Slovenia imports 14 million litres of wine, exports around 7 million. We import klump from the klump, you'd say in Slovenian Gorica. We import the lowest quality wine. We import the lowest quality wine. We are trying to export it, and, fortunately, exports are increasing slightly, and imports are increasing tremendously. On who? At the expense of many small vine growers who are failing, who have extremely little means to promote these wines, to bottle up and even to so-called, we call this winemaking technique, their machines and everything else. These are the essential arguments. The key arguments are that you say that laws are quality, that we control everything, that we have everything compiled and, on the other hand, that smaller vineyards are almost gone. One or more vineyards fail every day. It's just falling apart, the landscape is growing and the statistics are telling us about it. What are we changing now? Unboiled wine, we're only talking about so-called country wine. The Act, which was also explained today by colleague Mahnic, was published on 27 December 2011 by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act. Among other things, the law prohibits the pouring of non-contaminated wine in restaurants, which represents the largest proportion of the traffic in wine, in accordance with the rules on labelling and packaging of wine, the original stuffed wine can be offered to the consumer in each category in the following containers and then somehow count the largest, so when it comes to quality, it is the so-called country wine, that is, we can say, lower quality. [[…]] Just about the quality of the wine to get another stats. In Slovenia there are about 9% of the top wines, 54% are of quality wines and 37% are of these country wines. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the matter. I present my position, and I will present other information later in the debate. So, dear fellows, there's nothing binding on you here. Today we talked about a lot of laws, you said you didn't know where you'd get 20 million and 10 million. Look, this is all about helping those smaller vineyards sell this wine. Of course, we still have agricultural inspection for that quality, evaluation, fraud. We do not terminate them by this law, but we give at least a little support to these vineyards. That's, we could say, the whole thing, the whole art of this law. We are reducing some completely drastic penalties at the second point. And then in this longer part, I'm going to give a little bit of explanation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, if we are proposing, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Ms Nina Maurovic will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u278	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. For the first time, I thought it was a lapsus, but it's repeating itself. We're not concerned, maybe in a hallway, not in this hall, he says, "Take your pick and don't choose." Thank you. Dear Members and Members! Imagine you're busy at the company. The company carried out a reorganisation with the assistance of experts and in cooperation with all employees. Reorganisation provides better working conditions for employees and also provides a better experience for users and subscribers. A small part of the staff working with the reorganisation is not satisfied, so prepare a proposal to amend the reorganisation. In fact, this does not bring any new solution, but only suggests a return to the old condition. It's not an under-thinking or under-quality proposal; it's just a matter of getting back to normal. At this point, it seems to us all perfectly logical that this is a senseless proposal that will not be accepted, but in the National Assembly it is also possible to make sense in the name of democracy. It is also a series of proposals for amendments to laws that do not change anything, but only propose a return to the old state. We have before us the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act, proposed by the proposer with the same content already in April 2016, which was already rejected. Not only did the MPs and the Government oppose him, but the winegrowers and winemakers opposed him. As of 1 January 2014, the new Wine Act, which had the primary objective of reducing the grey market and eliminating unfair competition from registered wine production, entered into force. The challenge was to protect both the consumer and the producer of grapes and wine. The proposed amendments were prepared by a working group composed of representatives of winemakers and representatives of wine inspection. Among other things, the amended law also provided for a ban on the pouring of unboiled wine in guest shops, but the wine is still sold as open wine, but must be in a properly closed packaging and labelled. In doing so, any container suitable for the storage of foodstuffs shall be considered as an appropriate packaging. Depending on the quality of the wine, these can be glass containers with a volume of up to 10 litres, and all the way to stainless steel containers with a volume of up to 60 litres. Labels must, however, include data on quality, origin and production. Producers themselves can still offer unoriginally stuffed wine in their production plant. However, fines have increased considerably for violators. The wine inspection, which supervises compliance with the provisions of the legislation in force, finds that the infringement is minor every year. In 2017, for example, only 15 infringements were found. The introduction of the novel did not cause any problems and traffic in unoriginally loaded wine decreased dramatically in the inn establishments. The proportion of non-marketable wines decreased by 80 %. The share of non-identical wines in transport is 30%. Very encouraging results, then! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act before us today proposes an amendment to Article 44 of the Wine Act, which sets out the form in which wine can be placed on the market for the final consumer. It suggests, inter alia, that unbleached wine be allowed again and that penalties for offences be reduced. Since the basic principles of the existing wine law are primarily the protection of the consumer and the protection of the producer of grapes and wine, the re tabled proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wine in the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc will not, of course, be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u280	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State with co-workers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The substance of the proposal for amendments and the addition of the applicable wine law is the extension of the exemption allowing the sale of unoriginally loaded country wine. Such sales are permitted under the applicable law only to wine producers who can sell wine of their own production in such a way in their production establishments. The applicants want this exception to be extended, thus allowing for the reselling of unoriginally stuffed locally produced wine in catering establishments as well. In addition, the applicants propose a reduction in the amount of the fines currently prescribed for serious infringements of the current law. Slovenia is a wine-growing country with a high share of self-sustainment and its own production. The wine-making palette is also wide. The restrictions imposed by the applicable law aim not to prevent fraud, abuse and unfair competition. The essence of the current regime is to ensure that the food is used for appropriate packaging when the non-originally loaded wine is sold in catering establishments. Guests must also use the premises that prevent re-closure after opening. This ensures the quality of wines and consumer safety and convinces tax abuses. The implementation of the proposal would thus, in particular, increase the supply of low quality wine in catering establishments and open up opportunities for abuse, such as mixing different wines in guest warehouses. The second part of the bill is the requirement to reduce the penalties in force, which were also imposed five years ago. We agree with the Social Democrats that in Slovenia we often intervene too quickly on the regulation of high penalties with the so-called deterrent effect, but we must also point out that in this case, we cannot be classified as draconian. The height of the fines is determined in the range from the lowest to the highest. However, it should be borne in mind that even violators do not always fall into the category of small winemaker according to the performances of the average man. When infringements bring great wealth benefits, fines must also follow. Otherwise, it is possible to continue the practice known also in any other area when the offender pays the fine, which is only a small percentage of the profits obtained. This does not deter violations, but encourages them to repeat them. Therefore, we also consider that the reduction of the fines in force is not appropriate unless it turns out that they are disproportionately high on a case-by-case basis in relation to the gravity of the offence. Although we will listen to the arguments of the motioners in the Group of Social Democrats, we do not believe that substantial changes to the law currently in force are necessary. Therefore, when we vote, we will not support the proposal for a decision that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Ambassador Gregor Židan will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u282	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Wine Act was passed in 2006. Seven years later, however, the first major change was adopted. In 2013, the main purpose of the amendments adopted was to bring the European directives into line with the Slovenian acquis in order to limit the grey economy. All the major actors in this area welcomed the changes made at that time. In spite of the opposition to the government novels in 2013, the House of Guests has in time found that this does not have a significant impact on business and that it protects the consumer from misleading the origin and quality of wine. Today, we have a novel of the Wine Act, which the SDS has introduced into the legislative procedure. By means of a proposal for a law, the proposer wishes to allow unbleached wine to be poured in the inn and thus allow small vineyards to sell unbleached wine without the necessary additional costs and to reduce penalties for offences. We are talking again about another proposal for a law by the SDS. In the previous mandate, the SDS tabled an identical proposal for a law that did not receive adequate support. We have not changed our position in the SMC Group at this time. Our arguments also remain unchanged. When we talk about the sale of unboiled wine in guest restaurants, we must also talk about the grey economy. As regards the previous novelty submitted by the SDS, all important stakeholders in the field of winemaking and wine growing have warned that such a proposal leads to an increase in unfair competition between winemakers and broadens the possibility of developing a grey wine economy. Such a proposal, in their view, means even a step back, as this would undermine efforts to improve the quality of Slovenian wine. They also pointed out that the proposal does not offer any quality solution. In the SMC, it is recalled that the maintenance of the grey wine market does not make any contribution to the national economy, as producers do not have to invest in the brand, and thus do not contribute to the enforcement of Slovenian wines on the wine market. We are committed to protecting consumers and protecting producers of grapes and wines, so we are still insisting on the initial solutions adopted in 2013, as increased control protects consumers from misleading about the origin and quality of wine. Grape and wine growers, however, protect themselves against unfair competition. In the SMC Group, we oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Ambassador Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u284	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. Hello again. The proposed amendment to the Wine Act is intended to remove the ban on the pouring of unboiled wine in guest houses and to reduce the penalties for offences related to the pouring of unbleached wine. In fact, the proposers want to achieve an end to those provisions which were introduced in the law in 2013. The applicants say that this ban represents higher costs in preparing wine for the market for small vineyards, but all wine growers, both small and large, supported the previous novelty. Grape growers have even given an initiative for a novelty aimed at increasing the share of wine production applications and limiting unfair competition in registered wine production. The main ways in which this novel was adopted were to protect grape processors and protect consumers. Novilo was supported by residential organizations of both large and small producers, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Vines Family Vineyard Association, large vineyard growers and also non-market grape processors. The ban on pours of unboiled wine was opposed only by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, because this ban was intended to go to the detriment of the innkeepers who poured unboiled wine. The current regime already allows the sale of unboiled wine from registered grape growers offering wine from their own production plant. In addition, the inox can pour wine from barcomatas and inox containers. In the Levica Group, we believe that the existing regime is appropriate and that no concrete information has been provided by the applicants to prove that wine growing in Slovenia is suffering from a ban on the pouring of unbleached wine. In our opinion, the only ones who could benefit from the proposed novel are the guests, who would be allowed to lift the ban from various machinations and unfortunately also from fraud. Above all, in the proposed amendment, the proposed reduction in penalties for offenders will be made in the eyes of the proposed amendment, where the law is actually against small vineyards. The law reduces penalties mainly for large and medium-sized producers. For these producers, penalties have been reduced very radically, while the maximum penalties for small producers remain the same. However, the lowest penalties at risk for small producers are reduced only in rare cases. If I go for specific cases. For worse offences, i.e. under Article 56 of the Wine Act, which are committed by large producers producing grapes, musts, wine or other products as a natural person, a fine of EUR 1000 to 300 is proposed in the amendment of the Law. The same offence for medium-sized producers producing grapes, musts, wine and so on is punishable by between €850 and €700. The penalty for small producers producing grapes, musts, wine and other products as natural persons is between €650 and €6000. In short, smaller than a farmer, a higher sentence is at risk. And that's just one case of an anomaly. This bizarre law, which could be referred to as a benefit to small producers and, in fact, the benefits to large ones, should be illustrated by the extent to which the maximum penalties are reduced. For large producers producing wine as a natural person, the maximum penalty for serious offences is lower than 15 000 EUR 700 EUR per thousand, or EUR 14 000 400. For medium-sized farmers, the maximum penalty for these offences is lower than €11 000,250 per thousand, or a reduction of €9 000,550. However, for small producers, the penalty remains to 6,000,500 euros, or nothing decreases. In Levi, we believe that the proposed novel does not improve the situation of small vineyards. However, the proposed amendments to the fines are not acceptable at all and we will therefore vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u285	Thank you very much. We have reached the position of the last New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, presented by Ambassador Blaž Pavlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u286	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The applicable wine law provides that only the wine can be placed on the market of the final consumer with an original charge. While it is an exception that non-originally loaded wine can only be placed on the market by wine growers who offer wine from their own production in their production plant. Members of New Slovenia did not support this latest change in 2013. Let us recall that at that time the views of stakeholders regarding the proposed and later established solutions were different. This is why today's proposal is welcome, as the exception extends to catering establishments offering country wine from this area. The proposer also proposes lowering the limits of the prescribed fines, which are actually too high. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the ban on pouring unboiled or open homemade wine is the poorer tourist offer in our wine-growing areas and thus discourages guests. As already pointed out in 2013 by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the area in comparable countries of the European Union is much more flexible, adaptable to local wine growers and innkeepers. Nevertheless, they have fine oversight. If we want to keep vineyards in the countryside in Slovenia and even smaller vine growers able to sell what they produce with their hands, of course, while fulfilling other legal conditions for the production of wine, such a change of law is necessary. Otherwise, it is likely that in the future we can expect to abandon the processing and cultivation of such vineyards. In the light of what is said in the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u287	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, the proposaler, Mr Jan Mahnic, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u288	Thank you for your word, Vice President. It was really interesting to listen to all these opinions about how things would change overnight, how some organizations objected. Comrade Šushmelj of Alenka Bratušek even said that a winegrower had come to his office and told him that this novel was not good. But when a winegrower comes into your office, specifically for this case, he forgot to tell you essential information, that's how many vines this vinegrower has. Did a vineyard with 500 vines come to him, or a thousand vines, or a thousand 500 vines, or did a vineyard with 25 thousand, 30, 35 thousand vines come to him? That's an essential difference. Because those who have 500 to 2,000 vines there, in this case, will be better. However, those who have 25, 30 or more will be no worse off because of this, our marriage gives only the possibility that those small vine growers will be able to sell wine at the restaurant as well. Let's take the case. We have two colleagues. One has a vineyard, like a thousand vines, and the other has a restaurant, a small inn somewhere in the countryside. And he told his colleague that he would need it, and if he could buy from him, what do I know, 100 liters of country wine, kind of, per month. According to the law in force, if this wine grower wants to sell this wine to him as a guest, he must first arrange this wine properly, have this wine filtered, he must put in this wine all the cleaning, what I know, concrete, gelatin and so on. This wine must then be bottled, it must be equipped with all the appropriate indications and so on. And the cost goes up. When they agree on the price, what will be the price for these thousand 200 litres and when it will together give all the cost it took to sell it under the applicable law, the price will not practically cover everything that is needed by production. As far as quality is concerned, it's not true. In Slovenia, we currently have the standards they have in the field of wine-growing. They're high. We have top wines in Slovenia. But I still don't understand why we import 13 million wines and we export 5 million. We have top-notch wines running around the world, in the most important institutions in the world, in the most famous inn in the world, and these growers will not be deprived of anything because of our proposal for a law. However, they will come to a better position those small wine growers who may sell their product, their own inn product, who would not just pour what I know, wine from the winery of Kabaj Morel, certainly one of the best from the mountains, wine, for example, which is viewed in amphoras and so on, because it has a certain price. And every inn doesn't pour that wine. But I would pour wine that I would buy at a small vineyard there in the wine-growing environment in Dolenjska. Why not? How can someone who has produced a thousand and a half gallons [500 L] of wine pose a threat or unfair competition to the one who has produced it and also sold 50, 60, 70 thousand litres? The standards stay the same. Some of you have spoken here as if anyone with, for example, 500 vines and a thousand liters of wine would be able to sell wine in every restaurant in the waterfront. No, it will not, because we have clearly written that they must be registered as producers of grapes and wines and that they must also have their production plant registered in the register. Not every small winegrower who enjoys it will be able to sell wine to the inn. Look, about 400 acres of vineyards are going down. If we link this to the rest of the failed agricultural policy in recent years, I think that, for two years in the previous term, the government of Mir Cerar has increased the master's age on Slovenian farms. Small winegrowers leave their activities precisely and mainly because of such bureaucratic nonsense as you are preparing. Yes, this law was written on the skin of great vineyarders. We agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is necessary to support large vineyards, because these are our pride, are our top marks. As I mentioned earlier, if we are talking about boutique tourism of five stars, certainly culinary within this represents one of the basic pillars. But don't look at it all that way. Because what is called the Palace Hotel and within it the top wine of Slovenian winegrowers boutique tourism can be for an Englishman boutique tourism of five stars to sit on the Ryanair on Thursday, fly to Ljubljana, on the portal of the Wallanica.You rent a zidanica for four, five days, go to Dolenjska and enjoy this boutique tourism of five stars, if you so understand it. And you know yourself, now you can go look at real estate, you can go look at Bolho, how many abandoned buildings and what condition vineyards are next to these buildings, is currently being sold in Slovenian all three wine-growing countries. This is because there is no longer interest in these sales or so much to get back in the case of small vine growers, not all the work they do, not the starchy process, not the whole process that is needed to seal, where wine must last up to 40 degrees and therefore must go through a certain process, which is not necessary if wine is in the cellar. Then you have an example when you come to one inn, and you say you want an open house or a table wine, as you translate a house wine from English, and you say, "Yes, you will get it out of the bottle, I can't directly pour it" – except with the exception of tourist farms, as you yourself said. This has now had to be addressed mainly by harmonising European legislation, but we would not have done so if, in any case, we had transposed the European directives into national legislation, made certain things a little more addictive and even more acute, as has been shown several times. You're telling me how the violations stopped and so on. Let me tell you whether the law currently in force prevents the inn from buying, for example, 100 litres of wine, 100 liters of bottle with bolted stoppers, because the law speaks of packaging, which is only for single use, but if you have a bottle that you buy from the winegrower, which flushes your wine, a hundred of these bottles with threaded stoppers, you can always have those hundred bottles and go with rinfusion next time to the vineyard, those hundred bottles you wash, the wine in there again, the screw cap, the seal, and that's it. Is this happening, Madam Secretary of State, or isn't it happening? Of course it's happening. Don't get blinded. I don't know how much it's changed. Of course it's changed. It's changed for the better. But if we return the law, or the situation, as it was before that change, this standard will not diminish. There are very few bad wines in Slovenia today. We know what stories used to be about wine. The only thing bad about wine is it's underrated. Someone who processes the vineyard for 20 percent, including 30 percent of the propensity, and processes it manually, is the cost or value of a liter is calculated at 2 euros 70 to 3 euros. But he's selling it for the euro and 50. And now let's add to this euro one and a half all the costs that come in the process of making this wine bottle. It is logical that there is no longer small vine growers in the interest of cultivating vineyards, cultivating the land — by having vineyards, by caring for the landscape — and by abandoning this service. One more time. None of the big ones will be worse off if this novel is accepted. Nobody. As those who are established today, those who still exercise their quality have – in view of how Slovenian tourism grows, how gastronomy grows, they have a bright future. We're still a long way back. Last year I was in Tuscany with a winegrower, I think I have 17,000 canes there, I don't remember exactly what white wine it was, he sold me a bottle for 12 euros. He said he sold it to the Chinese for 35 to 45 euros. He said that when he was in China and saw his buttock in one wine shop, there was the price of this bottle of 280 euros because it was important packaging, story and so on. In short, this same bottle that I bought for 12, 13 euros sold to China for 280 euros. These are stories that we can also build in Slovenia. And these are stories that no vine grower with a thousand vines will endanger. Because he can't and because he doesn't even want to. There's just no economic calculation. However, if we encourage anyone to cultivate more reeds to develop their activities, then we have achieved one of our goals or goals.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Given that there have been significant changes on the list of applicants, allow me to state the order of the remaining applicants. First it will be Joseph Horvat, then Bojan Podkoršek, Franci Breznik, Anja Bah Žibert and as the last Boris Doblekar. Of course, the government can also get the word within the time announced. Does the Secretary of State want a word now? At the end. Good. Then I give the floor first to Ambassador Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u290	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think this marriage is very well planned in time. Not least because, thank God, this year's summer was of great quality and quantity. That's the first part of the story. But the crop has to be sold. If you don't sell it, nothing's good for you. We must all be aware that in politics there is a principle of virtue, a value. And we can't just change our position in New Slovenia. As colleague Pavlin said in his position of the New Slovenia Group on this proposal for a law written by colleagues and colleagues in the SDS, we did not support these recent changes in 2013. And now this bill, which is on the table, kind of wants to return the solution to one part as it once was. Above all, we understand that this solution is working — and therefore we support it in particular — across from smaller vineyards. It is true, as the proposer said, that large vineyards will not be affected by this novelty of law. But now let me be a little bit of a patriotic, and this is of course necessary, because I have many times the feeling that, with Gregorčič's, say, in Prekmurje or at the suburban vineyards he does not see. You just can't see it. I have tried my entire previous mandate to organize a round table in the Lendava Mountains, or whatever it may be called, with the title of the Perspective of Vineyard and Winery in Prekmurje or narrow in Lendava Gorica. Experts say that you will probably not like this, although in Prekmurje the most superior wines on the surface in Slovenia are proud of this, and the vineyards are rapidly shrinking. This is actually the basic motive that encouraged me to debate. It is true that lately – because I have been in Ljubljana all week and rarely drive towards Lendava, although I have a son there, but I see again and again that some area in the Lendava Mountains is empty. My heart's breaking, I'm sorry. Once after my father-in-law, I was working the vineyard myself, even being a premier champion in the class because I got lucky — I don't have that much uniform knowledge. But experts say he is now in Prekmurje, called Goričko and Lendava Gorica, about 570 hectares of vineyards. If this trend continues to decline, it is very easy to calculate that in 2030, in a good 10 years, these areas will only – how much? 150 acres. What's left? The answer is simple. It's gonna be the jungle! Jungle. These surfaces will heal. More than any government is for the preservation of wine-growing – I speak for Prekmurje – ordered by wine-growing societies. I was the initiator of one of those who has 200 members today. High-quality education has been carried out over the past 25 years. High-quality evaluations, social evaluation of wines and so on and so on. Thus, wine-growing societies have made remarkable progress in terms of the quality of wines or the general quality of wine-growing and wine-growing by means of lectures. But whoever sits here in 2030 – I will not be here – will find that in fact the Wine Law is a meaningless law because there are so few vineyards in Slovenia. For example, we now have three large vineyards in Prekmurje, perhaps some kind of injustice, but three. And that's all. This trend is as experts have shown and, of course, they are disgusted. Why is there such a trend? They say that because of the legislation. And they're pointing their finger at me. I blush in front of them. Look, it's normal for you to sell 10,000 liters, so you have to flash it, so you have a charging line, and so on. But someone, as the proponent said, who has more or less hobby – a vineyard for the soul, as they say, for his own needs and a little bit more, let's say a few hundred liters sell – how can he now invest in a filling line and so on and so on? Look, it's not working. It's out of the question. If all European countries that put anything on winemaking and winemaking are so regulated, okay, then I am comforted and then we are here in a common market, we are equally competitive and equally uncompetitive. Let us all think together about what is happening to Slovenian winemaking. I'd like to invite you once if you'll follow me to see what the situation is like in the Lendava Mountains right now. There the local community has set up a sightseeing tower, which I hope you all have already visited. But I wonder what will happen then in 2030, what will be seen from this tower. Perhaps a distant hill, perhaps a mountain in clear weather, normally, but under the tower there will be more or less healed surfaces if there is such a trend as experts say. And here now is the time to pull the hand brake and somehow keep these little vineyards alive. Please, don't choke them with such non-life measures! We understand that this is a measure of one debirocratisation, this measure is a life-form and that is why, of course, we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Member Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u292	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Respectable both State Secretarys with a colleague, esteemed colleague and colleagues! Recently, I may have started with this, I was on a trip to Haloza, I must admit that on a highly regulated tourist farm, where there was also very good quality and good wine. But I don't want to talk about it right now. I want to say the following. When we were on this tourist farm this afternoon, when we were looking at all the hills around this tourist farm, most of them were infested. The nearest building, the master said, had been selling for years. She's abandoned. There is electricity and water on that building and it was sold for a thousand euros this year. Such negative stories are becoming more and more in our Slovenian province. Since I am a Member in the second term and have listened to the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members, I mostly felt that you were representing those who are new Members, as if someone had written this to you from the previous reference. Although you have one concern with many laws or with most of the bills coming from this right side or New Slovenia or the Slovenian Democratic Party, that there is an immediate smile on your face, but you can't wait for the point to end, I don't think that's the same. Since I said that I was already in the previous reference, we recently received, but this in the previous reference to how many farms close doors every day. I think about 1.5 farms stop farming daily in the Republic of Slovenia. One of the colleagues said earlier how old those who insist on farming are. When we talk about such, perhaps for some irrelevant, laws, all respect that we drink in Slovenia the very quality wines we love in Slovenia, as well as many citizens of European and global countries. I'm sure that's positive. Of course, it is a matter of concern when we impose heavy burdens on those who are smaller, small vine growers who strive to cultivate the part of the land that they own or may have inherited from their predecessors. When such a vineyard is abandoned, there is no longer the interest of one who has or purchases a lot of grapes. This landscape is growing. When we are no longer in the National Assembly, I do not think there will be an expert who would find a solution for these vineyards, farms and fields, as well as forests. We had many proposals in the opposition in the previous term. When the forest law was passed, it was our desire that some part of the state forest could be cared for by smaller farms, but we were not heard. I recently read the report of the Supervisory Board. And I think when you read that, you worry. We have adopted many such laws in the previous mandate, which we will also adopt in this mandate, which we want to correct. I'm even sure some laws will bring the government to this table. But laws that, I repeat, burden people who have little income and who fight to survive from month to month. Surely this law does not interfere with the great winery. Once again, I am proud of everything, even in the area where I come from, we have extremely good wines. But I must also admit that it is nice and delicious to drink good wine, to look at well-treated vineyards, and on the other hand it is sad when we look at abandoned vineyards. And those vineyards that are abandoned, you can trust me that there is no expert in this hall or outside who will find a recipe for finding someone in that tree, that he will someday start working these vineyards again. There's a lot of these little segments. One of the smaller segments or stronger for small vineyards is the one we are dealing with today. I think it's right to listen to this proposal. It is possible that something else will be added, of course, for the benefit of all those who work on the great slopes in the Republic of Slovenia, which preserve a beautiful landscape to make it easier to survive from month to month. I've never heard of it since I started in Haloza before, and I'm going to end up being poisoned by wine, and I've never heard of anyone getting rich from those vineyards in Haloza. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Member Franz Breznik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I will continue with that agricultural statistics I know as chairman of this committee. And I'm worried. In the context of some of the data that my colleague tried to highlight before me in his debate, he was right. In Slovenia, about 1.5 farms fail daily. I repeat, 1.5 farms fail daily. The age of the Slovenian farmer is over 57 years, respected colleagues and colleagues. It's growing in Slovenia. I don't think I have much explaining to do. Those who say we are going back to the old days, but look, especially those who are members of the committee, see the 2017 report on the state of agriculture, prepared by the most professional institution in Slovenia, this is the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia: 120 years of tradition, I think 40, 50 doctors of the science of employees, including many agricultural economists and so on, I do not explain. Today we present you and, of course, we go back. I'd be very happy to have you back. I'd be very happy to go back. Exactly during that period of 2008, right, Comrade Pojbič? When I think we didn't need to stand at the fourth door in America by a third-rate American bureaucrat, but I think George Bush Jr. played even golf with our President Jansha at Brdo near Kranj. All the best were meeting, the most beautiful planes were coming. I was working in logistics at the time, preparing transportation of complete teams arriving in Slovenia. Slovenia was a model younger European country than a paradise on earth. What we really feel in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I want to go back. And today, look again, even a number of these laws, which we have proposed, together with colleagues of New Slovenia and themselves, with regard to increasing birthrates, helping larger families, debirocratize that. And none of you are. You're talking about the grey economy. Now I'm just gonna start with the gray economy. One of the first meetings I convened as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture was at the proposal of the Slovenian Wine Society with Mr Brejc. We were looking at exactly that session that we are going to continue in January, so I suggest you take a look at the viewers and the viewers who are still watching at these late hours. About one third of the wines in Slovenia disappear through the market. So it's unreported, and it's not in any statistics. We have 60 million litres of wine in statistics. We can say that experts estimate that we produce between 80 million and 90 million litres of wine in Slovenia. We should talk about this. About 30 million gallons of wine that's not there. And now you're twisting to tell me that when you want to make some relief for those farmers who haven't yet given up, you're talking about a big gray economy. At the same time, I explain to you that about 13 million, between 12 and 14 million, is now the current number, not to my word, and we import the wines. And it's the fault of the worst quality. The worst quality of wine we import. But our exports are about half the size. Fortunately, we export quality wines. And we are not going in the direction of this novel of law, where the highest quality or the highest quality of wine would forgive it. It's just country wines, so-called country wines, that you forgive them so they don't need to be bottled. And we're reducing certain penalties. That's all we want to do. Today, I'm going to tell you some more statistics. In 1991, 26,000 hectares had vineyards in Slovenia. Twenty-six thousand acres. Today we have a good 20 thousand hectares. Of this, there are 13,000 hectares of vineyards at that maximum fertility stage. The crop reports about 13,000 vineyards. We've got about 28 thousand grape growers written down, for bottles, and I'm going to give you this information, and there's about a thousand 800 producers registered. Of this, only 16% are larger. I'm talking about those bigger ones with more than half a million liters. The Agricultural Institute has somehow discovered by method that economic production is only possible over a 5-hectare vineyard. And look at the great classes, the surfaces of vineyards in hectares, and the number of farmers. From 0.1 hectare to 0.1 hectare we have about 7 thousand 600, about 28%. From 0.1 to 0.5 hectares we have about 14,000 producers, about 54%. We still have about 54% of those small vineyards. If we go through this structure to the end, not to mention everything, we have 5 hectares, and we have about 5 thousand 818 vineyards. No, no, no. 399 vineyarders after this statistics. The statistics I provide are, we can say, as far as the abandonment of vineyards is concerned, as far as the grey economy, which is also now present, is remarkable. We are talking about those who have not yet given up, those who are hardworking, those who are burned-out, some 60, 70, and 80 more years old people who have some small vineyards on the big steep cliffs in the Slovenian Mountains next to the farm. Many who may never have built a house in their life, but they have a small house or a small vineyard, have some contact with the earth, have some meaning of life over processing it. In Slovenia we find that no one wants to do anything anymore. In Slovenia we find that we only buy Chinese goods, in Slovenia we find that we still have 75,000 people on the stock market, with the biggest economic growth. When we had problems with industrial apples this year, which were too large, which literally remained in the orchards, no one came and tore it up, so no one would work anymore. With these measures, we literally destroy those who still have little sense of work, who have no will to do anything else. Maybe even a tradition. So we destroy everything that can be destroyed with pure bureaucratic thinking. But when I look here and watch some respected fellow résumés, most Members, look, because apart from the rare exceptions she has never worked in practice, I don't know, had no contact with the land or worked or worked. And that's the problem. We live in one of our own worlds, closed in here, as if there were no reality, as if there were no white farmers or in the Slovenian Gorges, who worked hard, who barely survived. And look, there's a whole series of measures that we've put in here. I was in Zagreb, presenting at an international conference one article on the generational reconstruction of Slovenian farmers, especially wine-growing families. I've been talking about problems, I've been talking about positive stories. There is a debate in Slovenia and also in Europe in the area of agricultural policy on generational reform in agriculture, particularly farms. According to statistics that I've somehow explained to you today, 57 years and a few months, it's a generational overhaul, we can say it's a necessity. Now you tell me how you see her, dear fellows. Dear Government Representative, as you see it, you have rejected all of this by simply pushing against it a few days ago when we proposed to raise at least those farm pensions from € 190.200 to, say, the level of social support. You were talking about not having to. Even if you, as you say, accept it in a few years, most of these people will not see it coming. People usually do not live longer in their third lifetime, at least statistically, I want them to live as long as possible. The people I know have more than 50 years of work or 60 years of work, have been working since they were 14 years old on farms and now have 190, 200, 240 euros in pensions. And now you tell me if we have such an example of why a young person would choose to engage in farming or additional activities, such as winemaking. We have a lot of farmers in the Slovenian Gorica who have a complementary activity in wine growing because they cannot survive because they are small farms. Now you tell me who else is going to deal with this. I look at myself, I inherit a house, a small vineyard, I process it for a few years, then I don't allow time, then it was that we had to adopt a whole series of laws, a law for every sprinkle, that you had to do exams, and I don't know what it was, and I didn't want to examine the sprinklers. With us, it's mostly all a little bit cluttered up to the end. Of course, I cut it off, just like a lot of people did. That's where I straightened out, but now the grass is growing. Behind the back of my house were the vineyards themselves, about half a hectare was cut off before last year, the next vineyard, which my acquaintances had, I think they will also abandon. The entire coast there in Cogetinci will be one desert slowly, the grass will be and so on. No vineyards, no landscapes. And look, let's just keep going. Let's see if anyone else exists. As was the case with traffic fines, let us end up imposing traffic penalties. Look, they're fatalities. To the end, watch how many people are alcoholized. Yeah, let's give them maximum punishment. But no one sees why so many people drink alcohol. They're apathetic, desperate, they have small wages, little pensions, they have no purpose, they don't see the meaning of their lives. We should deal with these problems of Slovenian society. Usually, alcohol where it's high standard is not that present. It's the other way around. When we deal with and talk about unboiled wine, respected colleagues and colleagues, okay, let's take these measures, let's get even more windy. What do people drink in many inns? Foreign alcoholic beverages, inquality, various Jaegermasters, the sugar itself is inside, artificial flavors. The Austrians are laughing, doing a hundred billion-dollar deal on this, and we are our own pickers, beating ourselves and punishing ourselves, in a vicious circle, so that we may find two, three violators among these small sellers. We'll destroy the whole country. Even a number of small vineyards that I mentioned in statistics that most of them are will be destroyed. In this novel that we're putting on your desk, look, we're only talking about country wine. We're not interfering with some top-of-the-line wine, where what I think my colleague Mahnic used to explain before, you have to sell the whole story. My colleagues, from Mr. Steyer and everyone else who sells wine in China, I think we talked 14 days ago, sell the whole stories of Slovenian enology, from the beginning, from the story of vineyards, production, quality to clericalization and to marketing, to that maximum marketing. Slovenia is a very interesting wine country, although it has small quantities, I am of course now talking about top wines because we have a great variety. we have thought about 50 different varieties of wine in Slovenia. This variety is also one of such charms on so much so that relatively small areas and in these wine-growing environments also someone who knows wine can try different wines, more worlds somehow capture Slovenia and also this is interesting. And those who are willing to pay more will usually not interfere with these wines that we are talking about today, but will be able to pay for those more expensive wines, they will want to try those really top Slovenian wines and so on. Today, all that the Slovenian Democratic Party is doing, which is also a red thread of these regular sessions, the December ones as well as the extraordinary ones, is helping small people, of whom my colleague Pojbič sometimes explains stories from Šentilje, the Sweet Summit, the poor who can't survive and have worked their whole lives, and many have never been on the market, but he's been brave and he's worked his whole life. And all that we're doing and what some of you are telling us to come back, I would be happy and proud to return to 2008, when we were indebted to 22% of gross social product, as I announced in some plastic story, when the Prime Minister played golf with the President of the United States of America, when the President of the United States was happy to come to Slovenia and we were the story of success. This was when young people did not choose to go to Austria, Germany. Here too I would like to go back to the old days to open my eyes, erase everything I hear here with this sick bureaucratic thought that I'm in a dream that it's not the truth, it's not Slovenia, it's not my Slovenia. But unfortunately, there are times again where we were looking for some sinful goats, but in the end, we killed a whole herd of cows because of two flies. That's one case. My late father once said we're saving on matches, and we're throwing the logs out the windows. That's about the policy. And this same policy this week at each session explains that at 9.10 billion budgets it is difficult to take 1 million and there 500 000 euros for children. This is all a problem. But the media is constantly, for example, explaining today that there are hundreds of millions of European funds that we will not draw on. Once again, we have a new proposal from the Minister for Cohesion, which is completely incompetent, just as it was before. Completely incompetent. He has no idea how to solve this. We had the Minister of Cohesion, completely incompetent, and here hundreds of millions of dollars of money are leaking through our window. Isn't it sad, fellows? Because someone wants to be a minister, or because a client who doesn't have a frame, it's a policy. Isn't it sad, respected colleagues and colleagues, but isn't it sad? You come to the hearing and you listen to someone who sits there and literally says, "Yeah, they gave me, we didn't have anyone else anymore. I'm a retired man." Ask him what he will do: “Yes, you know, I won’t do anything, because the team is fine, I’ll distract them a little, and somehow it will work.” We will, somehow, leave behind the 3 billion euros we are looking for in this perspective. 3 billion euros. We've pumped about 400 million of them so far. I think we're the last ones on the draw scale, first is Finland. Look, here are the reserves, here are the, uh, respected colleagues, the reserves, and because of these incompetent politicians that you're setting up, especially the ministers, they're suffering from everything else, and they're suffering from everything that we're telling you today, we can say, we're spreading this thing that's going on back there. How can these people, these small vineyards, be able to make less of these bureaucratic obstacles, we put you on the table very easily, because you only need to raise your hands, nothing will cost you, no budget rebalancing will be needed on this account, but you may be able to save 10, 20 or 100 vine growers in the following year, which may now be decided again. According to the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, what I said at the beginning was that every year we should restore about 750 hectares of vineyards if we want to have at least such a trend that we do not lose what we have. The trend is that we still have about 13,000 acres of vineyards in that most fertile phase. In 1991, we had 26,000 hectares — about half of us almost fell. And this is the story of this sick bureaucracy, where you're looking for a few flies, and we're gonna kill the whole barn. Look, my dear colleagues, I know that the answer and your pleas will be to have special systemic measures. But no, Comrade Pojbich, as they say – systemic, right? So everything's gonna be systemic, you're gonna do everything systemically. You know, I've been looking at the government of SMC for four years, here is a fellow Bahova laughing, it's really funny at the end, four years ago we've been offering systemic measures. However, we have not adopted any reforms, and it is now the fifth year of the so-called transitional left system measures that are not. Unfortunately, I believe I know, as you said in your views, that's not going to work either. Look, I hope that someone else in Slovenia is watching these meetings to see that anything is impossible to get through, that, in fact, as an opposition in this country under the government of the Slovenian Transitional Left, they have this trend in them from the old times when the opposition was not at all and this trend seems to continue. Unfortunately, whatever the opposition is proposing whether it is a party to Nova Slovenije or the Slovenian National Party – it will not go through any sieve. All right, no problem. Only I still wonder, when the SDS was in power, we had a partnership for development, we gave hands, there was almost no law in which the opposition did not act. Many of the laws went through the 2004-2008 period proposed by the opposition. I never wonder why we're such good people in fact. Why do we have so much democracy in us? Why are we socially sensitive if we are right-wing, exploitative, in the service of ugly capital? On the other hand, there are socially sensitive leftists who never get anything through. They're always in control with a hard hand. And this is the Slovenian reality. But I think there's a time coming. Believe me, we will be a quality opposition, that we have been quality and that your intentions will be exposed to the end. You don't have to be afraid here! The more you talk about the systemic measures you don't have, the more you'll say you're against everything, the more you'll dig your own grave. Remember that. We've only got one luck left. You can talk about hate speech. There's six cameras here. People are watching it. They're writing. They're communicating. And like me in these elections, when I won, I think that 35% and my colleague Pojbič a few dozen more, like my colleague Mahnic, were elected by a number of left-wing people who did not vote for me in life. Trust me! And if I look – here I have this statistic – the SDS Group received, say, 82 thousand votes, the LMŠ Group of Members 20 thousand votes. Four times as many votes. People knew who they wanted. So the SDS Group has 82 000 326 votes. The full members of the coalition six vote 67,000. The whole set. Here you can see exactly what the Constitutional Court has now said about the electoral system we have in Slovenia. These 25 SDS members received more than a complete hall gathered in the current coalition, together with the super-coalic Levican. 20 thousand more votes. And here only the electoral system still saves you. But that's gonna change, too, believe me. I'm sure, I believe in this nation, just as I believed in it in 1991, when they had all the apparatus, all the media, they had everything that was possible, they spat on Dr. Jožet Pučnik until the end. In the end, the nation was overlooked. And I think he'll miss it in the near future. Then there will be such laws as we have proposed at this regular December session. The laws for ordinary, good and working Slovenians will then come into force. And that's when Slovenia will start blooming again. This will be Slovenia, which will be at the will of the Slovenian man. At that time, many young people will also return who will see hope again. They will see that they have a policy that understands them, understands their problems and understands their problems. That's when we'll start planting new vineyards again. Until then, I hope that this damage will be as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, would you like a word or later? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u296	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to say, however, that just as we proposed these amendments in 2013 only when they were in line with all groups of winegrowers and winemakers, this time we also checked the position of NGOs. We have obtained the opinion of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, Association of Slovenia, Association of Family Winegrowers and Winegrowers of Slovenia and Wine Society of Slovenia, and last but not least, the Association of Associations of Winegrowers and Winegrowers of Slovenia, which brings together 35 associations from all Slovenia and many small winegrowers. In particular, with these small ones and with Vinis, we also call this association Vinis, share the concerns that you, honourable Members and Members, share, and mention many times the concerns about the disappearance of vineyards within those areas where the own structure of vineyards is particularly fragmented. We have been working with them for some time to prepare measures to curb this process. That is why we were particularly interested in their position, and they replied in writing that they advocated order in the wine market, so they do not support your proposal to amend the law. They do not support the introduction of the pre-2014 situation, as regards the pouring of open wine in the inn. They further say that they are convinced that Slovenian winegrowers and winemakers must be legally protected against uncontrolled dumped imports of cheap wine from abroad, which is then sold in our stores in an unreputable package at a price of EUR 1.78 per litre, I quote their statements. With regard to Vinis, it is feared that in the event that the so-called open wine can be refuelled in the establishments, there would be abuse and sale of cheap imported wine, which would result in even greater non-competitiveness and lowering of already too low domestic wine prices. I'd like to tell you what the original filling of wine means. On several occasions, respected applicants said that it was an exception, which had already been applied to country wine, or to top quality wine, before or before 2014 or before this amendment of the law, but not to table wine, or to top quality wine, which could and should always be sold only bottled or originally stuffed. I also used the expression originally charged in the presentation of the government's opinion on purpose, because this does not mean that it is bottled in bottles. Here I would also like to say that in a small vineyard, as was sometimes mentioned here, which has 500 vines and would like the vineyarder, for example, 100,200 litres of wine sold to the inn, the law does not oblige him to sell it in bottles. It can sell this in bottles with a chronic stopper, it can be sold in plastic packaging, which is closed in such a way that it can be seen once opened that it has already been opened. That means the way it can be glued with a sticker. It is true, however, that such packaging must be marked with a label that can be made at home, written on the hand, written on the home printer, and the label must be affixed to this packaging. Contrary to the previous arrangements, when someone could also bring the inn wine in plastic packaging to the inn, the glass packaging, which was not necessarily closed initially, had to have a wine certificate now and before, the right assessment of the wine and the appropriateness of the wine had to be in any case. The wine must have been finished and suitable for sale in any case, whether bottled or unboiled, originally loaded or not. By having to obtain a document on the administrative unit that had to accompany this package, who did not have the original stuffed wine. Not a label, but there had to be a document that was valid for only 6 months because the wine was not originally loaded. And this exception was applied only to guest restaurants in wine-growing areas, as I have said many times. So the exception was narrow, and this narrow exception ended the law because the vineyarders wanted it so badly because this exception allowed too easy abuse. The change in beer habits or wine habits also required this. It has been mentioned several times that the Hotel Chamber was against this introduction at the time. When we had a workshop with them after the marriage and explained to them what the original wine loaded meant, they had no further problems. Because before that, it was already about five years before 2013 that the innkeepers asked the winemakers to do so. Since different wine is used in restaurants and if unoriginally loaded in larger containers, it was exposed to deterioration because it was in contact with air. See, even if you applied this amendment you're proposing, the question is whether the guests would agree to this or would actually require the winemaker to bring in the original packed packaging. Because that's what they've asked for before. And this was found in the amendment of the law, that only the law was something that the innkeepers had met before. So far from presuming that a small vine grower must have a filling line. But it is true that a winegrower, if a bottle of wine himself, must be full of wine — someone else who is registered for the bottle — if he is doing so himself, must be registered for it and must also be registered in the register of wine growers and grapes to record the wine bottles. However, the condition is that he or someone from this agricultural holding who is registered in the wine register must have a clerical course. This 42-hour clerical course, which teaches farmers the basics of wine-growing and basics of wine handling, costs about 130 euros according to the information we have from agri-land institutions. That's an extra cost. While in the second place, it had to be in a clean packaging, only that it must now be a label with wine information and that this stopper must be originally glued, it can also be with a sticker. So the other one isn't an extra cost. That's the fact that he has to have a course, and he is. Even after reporting to administrative units, this fact does not constitute an important obstacle because most wine growers already meet this condition. In short, I wanted to explain what the current regime is like, and especially that such an existing regime is actually supported by wine growers and wine makers, precisely those who are our interlocutors who act in an organized manner, also small, especially explicitly, because they are aware that, in the long and medium term, it is only the right path to greater quality and also to their existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u297	Thank you very much. The speaker, Mr Jan Mahnic, took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u298	Thank you. Just what you said is what I said, what's going on. You can have a package that is only for single use or stoppers that are for single use, but you can have a bottle, a plastic bottle, whatever you want, you can get the stopper back. You can use that all the time. There are cases when one of them bought what I know, 50 bottles of wine and then sold those 50 bottles of wine for six months. And another matter, Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased to hear what you have said, and this is that you are preparing these measures to agree with everything you have said, what has been done, how wine production is failing. Madam Secretary of State, my question is how many vineyards have failed at a time when you are the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture. 2,000, 3,000, 4,000? What's the right number? I don't think it's under 2,000. This is said to be the most evidence of your drive and your focus on the work in the field of wine-growing, mainly in the direction of preventive measures, so that the situation does not continue. In particular, before we are done in 5 minutes, if you want to tell us what measures you are preparing, because we have also heard about these preparatory measures before the previous mandate, when a colleague of Lisec led the Committee on Agriculture, there has never been any realisation, except when some intervention measures have to be taken in case of a natural disaster. But above all, I'd like to know how many vineyards have fallen since you've been secretary of state.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Do you want to answer? If not, I give the floor to Anja Bah Žibert. Message, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u300	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I have to start with one disappointment. With new customers, the situation in the National Assembly is not improving, but the picture is always getting worse. When a new party came to this national assembly in the previous term, these Members at least discussed it. Today, the picture is such that the new party, even the President of the Government, does not even discuss it anymore. It doesn't seem necessary to them or to make an effort to express their views or opinions and to try, after all, to tell them that we are wrong. There's no need for that either. Here you can see how self-sufficient this is. But you know, self-sufficiency is never good. At the very least, this is good for our citizens and citizens. I am pleased that at least the Secretary of State is responding, but he is trying to defend existing legislation, but I would like to see a little more debate on the part of the coalition parties as well. You said or recited your views in the introductions, but look, since we all know that, someone writes something and then says, some don't even know what they're reading. In order to come up with one really constructive debate and to actually exchange opinions, views, to look at what is good, to perhaps add even better things, and this interest is no longer in the National Assembly at all. That's sad. It is Parliament's function to discuss, talk, exchange opinions, but obviously we will not experience this here. All right. Finally, citizens and citizens are following us. When we talk about wine-growing, it is in some ways very important to point out that it is a Slovenian tradition. It's a Slovenian culture. If we do not – not only respect it, but encourage it and not allow it to go away, our culture will disappear. Ask the Slovenians, martinis are already a national holiday. People even experience it as a family holiday, such as meeting a close and wider family, friends, and honoring the drop that came about in that year. Just look at how many Slovenian heights are at the expense of vineyards, vines, vineyards. And what's going on today? That all those, many of them, who had worked hard with some hard work and allowed her to live, allowed her to live, because they found it difficult to leave all of this, could not do so today. Sometimes at least what they were producing, they used something for themselves, they gave something to their relatives, something small, but they could sell. But look, this wasn't about the profits. Here, more than that, it could have been that they were producing the matter further. You know exactly how much it costs to raise and manage a vineyard. Regardless of what the number is, those small ones also need to take care of it, and they also need to make a few provisions to do so. And that's what this is about, Your Honor. To allow these small vineyards to sell what they have produced in the simplest way, what is left. We're not talking about a hundred thousand gallons of wine here. We're talking about what's left. And sometimes they don't know if they'd just let it all go, or if it's paying off at all, but this sting, this Slovenian nation still insists, even though it's already healed and unfortunately it's gone. This proposal would certainly help to make some vineyards more permanent. Also, young people, their children, grandchildren, to let go and say, "Look, this is a Slovenian tradition, I'm proud of this tradition and I'm going to keep going." But today they can't if there's low wages, low pensions, who can only give, and in return they're practically not going to be able to get anything. There's something in the law that we're talking about reducing punishment. Previously it was said that penalties should be even higher. And I say it's different. More than a non-life law, more repressive measures are needed. That's the problem. The more lifeless a thing is, the more you have to squeeze the neck, because people are looking for exits. Repressive policy has never proved to be positive. Never. In some ways, I also listened to the fact that I actually got the feeling that all these little vine growers and those innkeepers were the same. All they're looking for is a way to cheat something, do something that's illegal, do something that's allowed to happen to them and one and the other, and no one thinks it's honest people. Why do we always look at the negative side? There will be fraud if it is such a different label or if that sticker is not there. Why is that? Why can't we just trust people sometimes? There was this thing before, and there was no problem. Do we have a lot of data from the health institute, how much poisoning there was and the rest because of the ingenuity or because it wasn't according to some of the standards you were talking about? You also said that many of these small vineyards were involved in this legislation. Give me the stats. You know, if they're some kind of society, societies have a representative, I'm interested in how many small vineyards were actually asked about that law at the time. That's illogical, because they'd never be for repressive measures. They wouldn't be. At least not to increase those. Here I think you're going against yourself. In fact, it was talking to the bigger ones. But look, the bigger ones don't put it at risk. What's a poor man with a thousand liters against someone with a hundred thousand? There's no way this is about unfair competition. It's just that this kind of vineyard is sometimes, look, the next point is the firefighters, and he took the wine to the firefighters and they sold the wine and they all had a good time. They earned something on this account so they could buy some extra equipment. Now we're kind of cramping it, everyone's afraid, just afraid of fear. And I'll get it over with. I hear many times in the National Assembly that this right half is spreading fear. Look, it's fear. It's fear because we don't let people live. Because we are working on a policy based on repressive measures. Don't laugh. This is sad, because in Slovenia it is not only a problem of buttons, they are farmers, they are also households, they are children. And as long as we don't treat things the same way in the National Assembly, we won't get far. I really want to discuss a little more in the future in order to find a common language.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-18-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u301	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Member Boris Doblekar and Jani Ivanuš have also been reported for discussion. In doing so, I interrupt the 11th item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow with their discussions. A general part of the debate will follow, where you will receive the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. If there's any interest, then there'll also be a time-sharing. I'm breaking up the 11th point, which we'll continue tomorrow. I inform you, however, that at 22:15, the continuation of the Mandate-Electorial Commission will begin at the Tomšič Hall. And another notice. Tomorrow we begin with the 24th item, this is the proposal of a candidate for a minister without a development authority. Then there'll be a continuation of the 11th point. Good night!
