ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to proceed with the third meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Janja Sluga until 4:30 p.m., Mr. Igor Zorčič from 15:00 to 20:00, Mr. Željko Cigler from 10.30 a.m., Mr. Luka Mesec from 13-16 p.m., Mr. Dušan Šiško from 12 noon onwards, Mr. Jani Ivanuša from 14:00 p.m., Mrs. Lidija Ivanuša from 15.30 p.m., Mr. Samo Bevk from 21:00 p.m., Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, Mr. Boštjan Korazija until 12 noon and Mr. Sonibo Knezak from 16:00 to 19:00. I welcome all those present politely. By doing so, honourable Members and Members, we are moving on to 25. This is on the basis of an act on the determination of the parliamentary investigation of the implementation of the Children's Cardiology Programme and of non-racial and illegal procurement of medical equipment and health material for secondary and tertiary health activities in the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of preparing proposals for the amendment of legislation and for other decisions of the State in its competence and for the determination and assessment of the actual state of play for the purpose of determining the political and other liability of public function holders. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 36 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Daniel Krivac submitted a request for parliamentary investigations to the National Assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to Mrs Jelka Godec's representative. Madam Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear Members! In Slovenia we want quality and competitive health care, we want health care that puts the patient at the forefront or centre of treatment and provides him with comprehensive care. In the public interest, it is undeniable, in particular, that 24-hour health care is provided to all people in Slovenia, and this can only be done smoothly if there is no corruption in the health sector, if management personnel do not work beyond good governance rules, but in the interests of patients. The problem of inefficiency of the health system is reflected in several different segments, but most of all it comes out in the incorrect organisation of the health services network or, if we look at it more closely, irregularities in the organisation of health activities and in the use of the health-care tax money. A classic example of inappropriate, non-transparent, however you want, health care organisations is an example of the operation of the children's cardiology programme in the Republic of Slovenia. From an economic point of view, it can be said that effective health is the one that uses the available financial resources and other resources with the greatest possible profit for human health or public health. Inefficiency is shown in the purchase of more expensive devices that do not give the proceeds that patients would like, or even medical personnel. Inefficiency also shows that money does not follow the patient as we like to say. All of this is also reflected in the Slovenian health system. Recent governments have failed to follow changes in health care, demographic change, the increasing demands of patients and doctors for quality healthcare and health care. There have been and there are still anomalies that indicate that, as we said before, money does not follow the patient. The reasons are also found in the irresponsible actions of public officials who, despite warnings from medical services, patients, various indicators of Slovenian health care, findings of the Court of Auditors, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, international professional supervision, and even did not deliberately cover their eyes against corruption, irregularities in procurement, irregularities in the management of medical equipment in the field of health activities, especially in the programme of child cardiology. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in Novi Slovenija and in the Slovenian National Party today we propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia the parliamentary investigation of the implementation of the programme of child cardiology and reckless purchases and management of medical equipment and medical material at secondary and tertiary levels of health activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of the Commission of Inquiry is to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and other responsible holders of public functions in health institutions at the secondary and tertiary level of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of the implementation of child cardiology and, on the other hand, in the field of the procurement of medical equipment and medical material and the management of medical equipment. In the past mandate, we have already had an investigative commission which has detected irregularities in one narrow procurement segment, namely in the field of vascular resistors. It is one year since the adoption of the interim report and soon more than half a year after the adoption of the final report. And you won't believe it, it's been five years since the National Bureau of Investigation started to deal with the area of supply of vascular resistors and irregularities in this area. The profit of the National Assembly investigative commission is that the purchase movement started, the prices of this material decreased and the public was informed of the irregularity, according to the National Investigation Authority, the Special Prosecutor's Office, the international community. If the coalition — at the time and at the present, because there is no big difference — followed by an investigative commission and a conclusion, today, in the National Assembly, as an asset of the investigative commission of the previous mandate, there would also be a change in the law on public procurement, in the area of the responsibility of public authorities, in the management of hospitals. I'm afraid we haven't been able to see that. The word is big, but there's no action. There is no action by the coalition, the government, no action by the National Investigation Authority and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. Some year after the interim report, the competent authorities, unfortunately, have not done their work with a good assessment. If the competent authorities acted effectively if they were in a normal state of law today, they would not need new investigators in the National Assembly. In this way we can find that many things are happening in the area of procurement in Slovenian hospitals and that many things have been happening and are still happening. Different procurement circuits, non-compliance with procurement legislation, non-economic business and management of medical equipment, intransparency in the acquisition of expensive medical equipment and all that and what more can you read in the Court of Auditors report issued on 30 January 2018. The report entitled Rule of Procedure for the Purchase of Medical Equipment and Medical Material and the efficiency of the acquisition and management of medical equipment in UKC Ljubljana covered the area of procurement in this institution from 2014 to 2015. It was found that UKC Ljubljana did not select EUR 120 000 for the purchase of medical material and medical equipment for healthcare providers of EUR 70 million and medical equipment suppliers for the value of EUR 120 000 on the basis of the procurement procedures previously carried out. You heard well; 70 million in two years, UKC Ljubljana did not choose the contractor for this money after the previous procurement procedures! Similarly, we have found on the commission of inquiry since 2006 that we have been proving with papers, material, evidence of corruption, statements of witnesses. No one in the coalition who was also in the previous government seemed worthy of doing anything. We even had problems on the committee with a conclusion and ultimately with the validation of the report, which would be too specific for certain persons and at all unfavourable for many. So today we propose that work in this area continue to investigate what has already been detected in the previous Commission of Inquiry and in the Court of Auditors report. We also propose an investigation into medical equipment management. This is also an area where money was intransparably spent. According to the Court of Auditors’ report, UKC Ljubljana did not have an adequate system in place to monitor the use of medical equipment as a basis for effective planning of new purchases. Not to mention donated equipment, where it wasn't known whether the hospital needed it at all. In doing so, it would be good to recall or also to read the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia from 2015, which revised the inefficiency of the Ministry of Health in the management of medical equipment, with an emphasis on expensive medical equipment from 2007 to 2015. The efficiency of the management of medical equipment in these years has not changed significantly at the Ministry since the first audit of 2007, according to the Court of Auditors. The Ministry has not yet established the actual situation in the field of medical equipment, still does not ensure the accuracy and up-to-date of all data, and according to the Court of Auditors it does not make sufficient use of certain data. Therefore, the Court of Auditors also notes that all hospitals still do not maintain adequate records and do not have the criteria for determining the priority of purchasing medical equipment and short- and long-term plans to purchase medical equipment. In the area of procurement and management of medical equipment, we can seek criminal responsibility for the non-economic and non-transparent operation of procurement and management at ministries, as well as in hospital management. As mentioned at the outset, the problem of inefficiency of the health system also appears in the incorrect organisation of the network of health services or, more importantly, in the irregular organisation of health activities. As an example, we refer to the organisation of health activities of the child cardiology programme in Slovenia. In this area, the statements made by former Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc and former Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, who have always claimed that the programme of child cardiology is more than satisfactory, safe and especially for the benefit of patients. She may be concerned about the rejection of the position of former State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Dr. Ana Medved, who, on the basis of a proposal from doctors who are still active in the children's cardiology programme and on the proposal of the Medical Chamber, has not decided or argued that the Ministry of Health will not decide on responsibility in UKC Ljubljana for the poor situation in the children's cardiology programme. It is also concerned about the recent statement by current Minister Sam Fakin, who said that excessive past activity could harm the current programme. He said, quote: “We are in an extremely sensitive phase of selecting experts, the program is complex and difficult, constant or too much attention can hinder the operation of the program.” Why is it that we care about dealing with the past and finding responsibility, we also ask the proponents. Because if we do not resolve the bad things of the past in terms of the responsibility of individuals who, after an international report on the Commission's findings on the prevention of corruption, professional supervision, statements of individuals at the Ministry, have not looked aside, then the new programme or plans of the new programme will fail. The issue of child cardiology appeared more specifically before the public in 2013. In January 2013, internal professional supervision showed a number of systemic shortcomings. 16 recommendations were made to improve the detection and treatment of children with congenital heart failures in UKC Ljubljana. Mr Tomaž Gantar, former Minister of Health, expressed his dissatisfaction with the programme in the UKC Ljubljana report and considered that the poor situation in the personal interests of some who are involved in this story was the cause. In May 2013, the Commission issued observations on the suspicion of corrupt behaviour of responsible persons in UKC Ljubljana in the implementation of this programme. These findings say they're mags. Darinka Miklavčič as a responsible person in UKC during the period 2007–2009 and mag. Simon Vrhunc violated his duty in 2010 at least by concluding three author contracts with a foreign doctor for work that could not be considered a work of art. Both of those mentioned according to the KPK also knew that a foreign doctor did not have the right license and work permit, but nevertheless allowed him to work in UKC Ljubljana. No one has ever been held responsible for these acts, either criminally or otherwise. In July 2013, on the basis of the request of the then Minister of Health, Tomaž Gantar, the Medical Chamber ordered international supervision for the operation of this programme from 2007 to 2014. In that report, the International Commission made several key findings, notably that the programme deviates from the internationally published guidelines and standards of care in cardiac surgery with questionable results of surgical interventions. The UKC Ljubljana Administration, Ministry of Health, has repeatedly been informed of derogations from international guidelines and standards of care in children's cardiology. There have been no measures to improve this programme in terms of management, at least until the conclusion of the international report. In 2014 to 2017, several doctors from UKC Ljubljana were also involved in the establishment of a new public institution of the National Institute set up by the former government. This institution ended up after a year, and his former government just before he left, so the government set aside a million 700 to operate, despite the fact that this institution did not have equipment or personnel, he had only a director and a supervisory board. In 2017 we also witnessed an attempt to terminate Dr. Rajk Kend, the then professional director of the Pediatric Clinic Ljubljana, for which the then management of UKC Ljubljana submitted a proposal for discharge due to objective responsibility for the situation at the clinic and also in this programme. After the mediation of Mileka Kolar Celarc, this was withdrawn. A number of things also happened in the field of child cardiology, more then in the debate over time. We expect the signatories of the request to work productively, constructively and actively in the investigative committee of all parliamentary parties, because if we really want to improve the system in Slovenia, it is necessary to clean up the issues of corruption, personal interests and lobbying, which indisputably protect those who impede the development of health care that sets their interests against the interests of the citizens in whose service they are. We keep repeating the need for health care to clean up corruption, to find responsibility for the return of Slovenian health care if we are to continue to follow European guidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. Now, honourable Members, we are moving on to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Jože Lenart, Group of Members of the List of Marjan Sarcas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The request for parliamentary investigation of the implementation of the Child Cardiology Programme and of reckless and illegal purchases and the management of medical equipment and medical material at secondary and tertiary levels of health activities in the Republic of Slovenia with a view to drafting proposals for amending legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction and to establishing and assessing the actual state of play to determine the political and other responsibilities of public function holders in health institutions at secondary and tertiary level in the Republic of Slovenia is certainly due to long-term complications and organisational health problems. Several successive governments have failed to join the health reform process. A number of reorganisation approaches were announced, thousands of working meetings were held at the level of health, ministry, government, national council, and hundreds of articles were written in the debates, columns. Many domestic and foreign experts were involved, but unfortunately we have not yet found the right formula to achieve sustainable long-term health care, in which we would believe and guarantee all the rights derived from our own, in this world of unique public health. Many experts who have been politely visited or invited to professional cooperation acknowledge that we are unique and that we need to maintain this, but of course we have been involved in certain well-intentioned warnings. It is also our high-level professional health care, which in certain areas coincides with the world summit itself. We can also be proud of our few experts who have succeeded in the world. We are well aware of the problems in the Children's Heart Surgery Department within the University Clinical Center Ljubljana, which have been dragging like the yoke of a snake for decades. The program of child heart surgery was once a respected program for the treatment of children with congenital heart failures. What has happened in this sensitive department, that it has been necessary for all the public and the policy to be involved, we have different opinions, both from citizens, Members, politicians and experts involved. This is probably why it is the intention of Professor Igor Gregorič, a recognised expert, to actively assist in the establishment of the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases, I stress, in some part following the pattern of a system that is established abroad, in America. This is where we may have stumbled upon the disharmony of our unique system of so - called public health. Let's face it, we have tarnished the pride of the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre; the pride of individuals who were not in any way acceptable to acknowledge the failure of children's heart surgery within the framework of the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre; and that this would now take place in a separate institute, in some sense outside our public health system, with foreign experts, with a reward that deviates from our pay policy. Yeah, that was there, too. We have to point out the following. Both the organisation of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana and the organization of the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases have had key shortcomings, primarily the critical lack of professional staff, which is crucial for this area, the lack of other medical personnel, the lack of technical equipment. Both were dependent on foreign experts who did not fully meet the necessary criteria in several areas. The following was not a critical mass of small heart patients who could justify a separate department or institution for children's heart patients with congenital heart failure. Slovenian health care has a high sense of health care, of patients, of the rights arising from our unique public health care. There must always be a patient at the forefront, especially if it is a child. Unfortunately, however, we have never looked back on the economy and sustainability of business, and that is precisely the key issue of our health care, for which we must seek appropriate measures as soon as possible. Of course, in the past, we have encountered unacceptable deviations in the non-rational procurement of medical equipment and medical material, which is absolutely unacceptable for a modern democratic society and so on. In doing so, we must commend the parliamentary commission, which, under the leadership of Ambassador Jelka Godec, carried out an important work and revealed a number of irregularities and personal exploitation in this area. Not only has she discovered and warned of irregularities, but the Commission has in fact eliminated them in much of its work. This does not mean that in health care everything is as black as in populist press articles, and in this House we do not have such practices foreign, we like to write and debate. With the populism "all black" we do great injustice to all good and successful health workers who unselfishly and with great effort perform their work, as with outpatients up to 70 patients a day, with additional work after 16 hours and more a day, which is even a fundamental violation of human rights, if we put it that way. This way of working, we violate a number of health rules, such as prescribed treatment standards, the right to equal treatment, not to talk about impossible professional work, which puts doctors and health professionals at risk of mistakes, responsibility, stress and could even mention. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We should not be surprised that health workers leave us to go abroad, where conditions of work and organisation of work are within optimal limits. Ladies and gentlemen, if we don't pay any more attention to primary health care, we will be losing miles that we will then be forced to save by millimetres at high cost, but I'm afraid that this will sometimes be too late. The government and Minister of Health Sam Fakin immediately took action and analysed the existing situation from the institution to the institution, which brings a real picture of good work and bad work. First key actions are scheduled. Children's heart surgery will continue to develop within the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana through the public health system. Strong frameworks are set for achieving the objectives to be achieved within a few years. The introduction of urgent morbidity conferences and their reporting to the Ministry of Health, mandatory reporting to the European database of children with heart problems – we will still depend on foreign experts. During this time, we will train domestic staff, and more demanding small patients will still be driving abroad during the transition period. We have turned to Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina to reach a critical mass of over 300 young patients, which will allow for the rationality of such an organised department. Next, emphasis on the management of public institutions through the economic system, emphasis on the responsibilities of administrations and supervisory councils, the economy, good management tools, effective integration information systems, awards and could also be listed. I'd like to point out some facts here. As a first fact. The citizen of Slovenia is available from the health treasury circus EUR 2 000 700 per year; the citizen of Austria or Germany is available from the health treasury circus EUR 5,000. These are the facts we need to come from, and we need to adjust our standard rationally. Second fact. The citizen of Slovenia visits the doctor on average 4.5 times a year, the citizen of Switzerland visits the doctor on average 0.6 times a year. I will allow myself to do this again: the citizen of Slovenia visits the doctor on average 4.5 times a year, the citizen of Switzerland visits the doctor on average 0.6 times a year. What do we think is behind this? Are we Slovenians that sicker? Do we believe that this is in our habit, in the exploitation of public health rights, in relation to public money, in disregard of health workers, in the pressure of employers to employees, because we do not have to pay for any participation, because everything belongs to us and so on. Third fact. Good professional preventive treatment of the patient is important. In a full clinic of up to 70 patients, it is impossible for the doctor and the healthcare team to do their job well and to diagnose the patient in five minutes. Thus, for example, at the primary level, the doctor sends the patient to a specialist who returns after a few months of waiting period with the conclusion that he has not been sent to a real specialist and then repeats or repeats this procedure. Next. In preparation, a comprehensive proposal for primary health care, which will provide better working conditions at systemic level, reduces the burden on existing teams at primary level and rewards more services and works in remote locations. We will also implement measures that will make specialisation and family medicine more attractive. Interventions for changes in long-term care are also being prepared. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that the role of the parliamentary investigation, if it comes to it, is welcome, as it will contribute to a comprehensive approach to health reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jani Prednik, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u6	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Today, at the request of the SDS, NSI and SNS Group, the National Assembly will order the establishment of an investigative commission to investigate the past implementation of the Child Cardiology Programme and the purchase of medical equipment and medical material. It is clear from the presentation of the chronology of problems at the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre in the implementation of the children's cardiology programme outlined by the applicants in the request for an investigation that this part of the investigation will be time-consuming for the period 2007 to this year. With regard to the investigation of alleged irregularities in the procurement of medical equipment and medical material, the applicants focus on the results of the audit report of the Court of Auditors on UKC Ljubljana for 2014 and 2015, and on the results of the parliamentary investigative commission which identified irregularities in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of vascular support during the last mandate. There is probably no doubt that there have been various complications, anomalies, corruption risks and other irregularities in the past period, whether in the implementation of the children's cardiology programme or in the procurement of medical equipment and medical material. Whether we are talking about individual irregularities or irregularities at systemic level, there is another issue that requires an accurate examination, so it does not appear to be pre- or flat-rate. The fact is that these issues have been addressed with a rather extensive media coverage, not least in the form of research journalism. If we add to this the substantive debates and decisions of the National Assembly at the meetings of the working bodies, plenary meetings and the findings of the investigative commission acting in the previous term, then it is difficult for the National Assembly to avoid the responsibility to carry out an investigation within its competences on the exposed segments of the health system. Social Democrats will participate actively in the investigative commission, so we have done in the past and we will do in the future. However, we do well to draw attention to two things in this place. Firstly, we have carefully examined the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on the request for a parliamentary inquiry. This opinion sets out serious warnings which in one way or another relate to the competences of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which must focus primarily on identifying the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions. Any overriding of powers in the functioning of the Commission, possibly due to insufficiently defined or identifiable subject matter of an investigation or to the determination of compensation or criminal liability of any or other interference with the competences of other State authorities or to the determination of political responsibility of someone other than the holder of public functions, would constitute illegal work of the Commission. However, possible illegal acts could harm not only the parliamentary investigation, but also other potential forms of investigation or supervision of authorities, which have the appropriate legal powers, which we do not want in any way from the Social Democrats. Secondly, we know that this Commission of Inquiry will also examine closely the pressing issue of the implementation of the Child Cardiology Programme. It is a very sensitive subject, where there is a lot of emotion, personal distress and unfortunately also unfortunate stories, where we believe there should be no room for political demagogism and possible populism. We expect that the Commission of Inquiry will be able to work in a way that will help establish a quality and safe treatment programme for heart disease and congenital heart failure in children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Mojca Žnidarič on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! At the request of the SDS, NSI and SNS, we are today discussing the establishment of a parliamentary investigative commission, whose work will focus on the situation in the field of child heart surgery and on the purchase of medical equipment and medical material. For several years the media have been reporting the chaotic state of child heart surgery. Children’s heart surgery has also played an important role on the political floor. The issue of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material, without medicines, began at the beginning of this year when the Court of Auditors published an audit report on the regularity of the procedures for the purchase of medical equipment and medical material in UKC Ljubljana between 2014 and 2015. In the SMC, we welcome the establishment of an investigative commission, and we will also actively participate in it. Indeed, we would like to see with the work of the Commission the epilogues of these stories, which over the years have marked our health system well under various ministers. We believe that we are not the only ones in the SMC who are interested in finding out the actual situation that will be the basis for establishing political and other responsibilities. We hope that this is the opinion of all Members and that we will all make the best possible contribution to the responsibility of those responsible for the situation. We must prevent the practices that we know to be wronged from continuing. For our largest hospital seems to be justifying its illegal actions so that other actions can seriously endanger the lives of patients. This is based on the findings of the KPK in the case of suspected corrupt behaviour by UKC Ljubljana in the implementation of the paediatric cardiosurgery programme, as well as the recent statement by the former director of UKC Ljubljana, who performed his function from 2013 to 2015 in connection with irregularities in the procurement and management of medical equipment. Our largest hospital does not seem at all disputed that illegal practices have been used for years, and they are repeatedly justified by the same argument. I quote, "if we followed all the procedures strictly, we could risk worsening the patient's health or even endangering his life." We agree that the first concern of the healthcare system is the quality care of patients, but we are convinced that such care must first and foremost be provided within established rules, procedures and regulations. The fact that at the beginning of this mandate, following an urgent procedure, we have adopted amendments to the Medical Services Act, with which we have facilitated the employment of professionals from outside the EU in the field of child cardiology, proves that if there is sufficient political will, we are able to agree and seek solutions for the benefit of all. I believe that all Members are well aware of the chronology of events that have marked the field of child heart surgery in Slovenia in recent years, the departure of doctors, cooperation with foreign surgeons, extraordinary professional supervision, the findings of the KPK and so on. The media also played an important role in this. Unfortunately for us, the key roles have not been played by those who are most responsible for the resolution of the resulting chaos — the profession. The very problem of child heart surgery has escalated to the point where it has become a first-class political theme, which is often misused to raise political points. In the National Assembly, whether you are Members, we have discussed this several times, and today we see that discussions in no way help to finally get this story an epilogue; first and foremost, for the benefit of our children. In the SMC we see the solution mainly in that the profession itself is trying to find an agreement, to finally harmonise itself and to arrive at a definitive solution. We have repeatedly stressed this in the SMC, because we believe that the National Assembly has never been the most appropriate place for these discussions. Regardless of the fact that we would like to point out that the report of the extraordinary professional supervisory work carried out in 2015 shows that the strategy of the new Slovenian Centre for Excellence with Congenital Heart Diseases or the dissolution of this activity is entirely dependent on the Government and the Ministry of Health. As it all appears, the current decision on the future of child heart surgery in Slovenia on the one hand is the result of a divided profession and on the other hand the result of a lack of political will to follow the path outlined. Unfortunately, she did not play her part. Unregulated situations in the field of child heart surgery in terms of organization are not the only challenges we face in the Slovenian health system, but child heart surgery is certainly something that especially touches us – and so is it! Appropriate treatment should be provided to the youngest patients. In itself, there is a eloquent audit report by the Court of Auditors, which concludes that our largest healthcare facility is not a good host. We simply cannot allow the taxpayer’s money to be treated this way. Remember, last November, 15 hospitals that have been rehabilitated from accumulated losses over the past years received a weak €136 million additional funding. While we spend extra money on one side of health care, on the other hand, we allow unreasonable and uneconomic use of resources. It also says much that in the first quarter of this year 19 Slovenian hospitals were dealing with losses, total loss amounted to €14.1 million. The issue of inefficient and non-economic behaviour in the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical devices is the logical continuation of the work of the Investigative Commission on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of vascular restraints from the previous mandate. We also welcomed the establishment of an investigative commission in the SMC and also actively participated in its work, but we did not support the final report with substantial conclusions. Why? For such or other political reasons, it was central to the fact that the current Minister of Health was responsible for the situation, even though the overpayment of the ventricles reached its peak at the time of another government. In some ways, we expect criticism to fly mainly to the former Minister of Health this time, although a number of important steps have been taken in the field of public procurement within the mandate of the previous Government. A central public procurement system was established, and an Intravizor database was set up to provide information on the prices of medicinal products and medical devices. As part of our work in the commission of inquiry, we will strongly oppose the fact that taxpayers' money is being used recklessly if these funds could, for example, be used for the education of local heart surgeons or for what we all like to stress, the reduction of waiting types. We have no intention in the SMC, and even less reason to obstruct the disclosure of bad practices. However, we would like the Commission of Inquiry not to abuse itself for political purposes during its course of operation, including political self-promotion, which unfortunately proved to be the case with the Commission of Inquiry with regard to the venous braces led by colleague Godec in the previous term. In the end, we should all aim to make improvements on the basis of the findings of the investigative commissions in this country. Where, earlier than in the field of health, is it essential for the welfare of our citizens and citizens, even the youngest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. He's got a word for you. Franc Trček on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! I have to say, after listening to what I've been listening to so far, I'm having a little trouble starting with this attitude. On the other hand, I will say that we met with the Minister of Health in the parliamentary group on Tuesday, had some serious conversation – 100 days of peace is over – and after three quarters of an hour I told him: 800 million. In short, I have problems on behalf of the Left Group because this investigator, who we knew would come in some form, is too narrow on one side and too scattered on the other. In the last year of my previous term, I have been dealing with the next item on the agenda, and I will talk about it. I am primarily involved in this mandate, 130% I can say, mainly on this subject. Child heart surgery or paediatric cardiosurgery is a very narrow specialization within surgery. The surgeons themselves say you have to have your hand for this. Are we experts on this, or are we experts on 20 grams of a child’s heart, if I may say so? I don't know what we're going to find here politically, political responsibility. The applicant herself said that from 2006 onwards, the Court of Auditors dealt with the period 2007 to 2015. There is probably no person in Slovenia who would not support Jelka's last sentence or paragraph, but if we want to respect the health sector, of course we have to go into some new policies, because old policies – I would hope to say since the Bajuk government in 2000, when it was known that we have problems in fact with specialisations and systematisations ahead, you are part of this political problem. These views, which I had previously heard, would have been considered by some to be SMC and SDS parties who came to the National Assembly with this mandate, but in fact they were not. Here, let me read it. In 2015, the Supervisory Board found that the children’s heart surgery programme had already been implemented in such a way as to compromise patient safety during the period 2007-2014. During that time, the SDS was in power twice. Until 2009, the Clinical Center was run by the director and the professional director, who was appointed the first Janša government. KPK found out, as did the applicants in the documentation themselves, that Mrs Miklavčič had breached the obligation to act in period 1. Ten. 2007-11. 8. 2009 The policy objective – I agree with these speakers before me – is, of course, also a responsibility. This world is now far enough or far too crazy by itself, and our task is not to do something here that we say in the White Country hall noise, but actually to leave this narrow specificity to really settle. And many of us forget that we have educated some top people in this area, even put in their amounts that go beyond the amounts of this institute that was – I hope to say – in the way it is meant to be – I will just say – madness that is now healing mainly German children. All of us who have gone into this story know that there is a question of people, not relationships and pennies. I really don't know what the National Assembly is looking into here, except that in fact the National Assembly has put certain people in the position of UKC to deal with it. On the other hand, we have this investigator kind of out-of-the-boxed, and I'm a little afraid that it's just going to croak. However, if we want to go seriously to watch the entire slide of Slovenian public health care, as well as concessional health care, that the public health sector is going into pure privacy as something is now going on in Celje, then we should or will have members and members of this investigator lock up for a month first in a health insurance company and work after 15 hours a day in a serious analysis. The problem with our health care is that, unlike the Styrian KAGes on the Austrian side, it does not have a serious information system. We have on that side of the e-patient, but we don't have a serious information system, so at some point in time, we know where we are and how and why we got there. Mr Šarec said last time that we must do this, the Minister is not so clear about this statement. The systems are somewhat comparable; they've given about 40 million to do so, but you know. Until we have this, it's kind of hard to talk very seriously about what's happening to us. Why don't we have this for a quarter of a century? Because the many obvious situations, such as they are, are in harmony! Someone mentioned the profession. I'm an analytical sociologist, but you know. The professions are not monolithic. Just like, you know, it's called politics that they're all the same. Yeah, no! We're not all the same. For example, ideologically, my colleague Jani, whom I appreciate, is slightly different from me — for example. The story, if we're talking, we should be talking about health. Someone mentioned how many times you go to a doctor in Switzerland, how many times you go to a doctor. Maybe we should ask ourselves, I wouldn't say through my thumb that we're all — I don't know, someone could understand — hypochondres. However, we may have a lot of people burned up and we are talking about an economic development model or, if you like, a strategy for the smart specialisation of Slovenia, which Mr. Restoršek did not exactly listen to or listen to me in the past term. We have the Court of Auditors, we have the KPK. Well, KPK is, I hope, on purpose a few loose ends. Many audits of the Court of Auditors – and this is what we have to do in the analysis of health insurance – which still have as much information as they do show us very clearly where we need to go in amending legislation. We need to play with some 53rd article of one very important law – I said a little on purpose, in a very responsible way. I have little problem with the fact that the primary level, which is essential, is also not exposed here in this proposal. When my colleague, Žiža, spoke to us as a doctor, we agreed that we had this pyramid slightly upside down. It's also a subject we're going to have to focus on. I mentioned 800 million to you earlier. The sum of 800 million is mandatory, additional, complementary – as we call it – long-term care, investment. This is a topic on which Parliament, as well as the labour force, should also deal with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and, above all, equal opportunities. We'll also have to deal with hospital specialization. Of course, most of us, unless someone decides to retire, wants to be re-elected, we are from some local, regional backgrounds, but it is our responsibility to look beyond it sometimes. And we can talk about the E.R. here, or we need to talk about specialization of hospitals, so that something closes up somewhere else, maybe something opens up or increases. That doesn't mean people won't have a job. That means they're going to be somehow different. Of course, it will also be necessary to impose responsibility and control in this direction, the Minister of State some work, will be out in a short time, at least as promised; but it is also dangerous to talk about health care as an economic society. Public health is not a private company, nor is the congregation a private company, which is very much spoken. We'll have this committee. I'll take part in it on behalf of the Left. However, I hope that we will be so responsible that we do not collect political points. I remember looking here at a colleague who we were doing an investigator named Janie, and I only once mentioned on the investigator that we have this and this position in Levica, and the president stopped me: “Wait, this is an investigator.” I hope that Jelka will also lead this investigator, even though I personally believe that we will have hypertrophy of investigators in this mandate, plus with large parental work bodies, I fear that we will come at some point, such as when we have a third of the National Council of Sick, that we will not be able to have an essentially conjuncturality. But well, it is part of a parliamentary procedure that we will have to deal with. But I hope that, not in the way that we, what I'm about to say, will be some additional commercial television that will raise viewership, but not looking for a substantive solution and, of course, an urgent change of legislation. Of course, those who will deal with this investigator will have to take this subject very seriously, because these “cavanaugh” or “half” philosophies in the National Assembly for the fifth year have already been highly overdoed. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You are next Mr Blaž Pavlin on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u12	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we have signed a request for the establishment of an investigative commission to ensure the irregularity and political responsibility of children's heart surgery in UKC Ljubljana and the illegal and illegal purchase of medical equipment and medical material at secondary and tertiary levels of health activities in the Republic of Slovenia. For child heart surgery to experience such a sad epilogue, it is mainly the fault of past UKC leadership, ministers and unfortunately also some doctors due to poor relationships. In NSa we are also critical to the Medical Chamber because it kept its head in the sand. The policy cannot solve this problem alone, but it can only be solved by the cooperation of doctors, medical personnel and the minister. In NSa we strive for public, accessible and effectively managed health care. Effective health care, however, is one that uses the available financial resources with the greatest possible profit for human health. On the other hand, inefficiencies are shown in purchases of more expensive devices, poor management of medical equipment and in inefficiencies in the acquisition of health material, in the incorrect organisation of a network of health activities, when for more money patients are waiting in waiting lines for a specific specialist review. The classic example of inappropriate organisation of healthcare activities is certainly an example of the operation of the children's cardiology programme in Slovenia. Under the children's cardiology programme, there is a lack of cooperation between departments, which has also spread to healthcare professionals. The situation has been attempted by foreign surgeons, but because of the unregulated situation and the unclear relationship between the UKC and the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases, it has even been shown that some experts and successful foreign doctors have even been abused. Did politics afford it too much? The investigation will identify, inter alia, the possible responsibilities of former and current public function holders in competent institutions where there is an increased risk to the health and life of children due to suspicion of abandonment of duty, the search for responsibility under unsupervised professional supervision in the treatment of children with congenital heart failure and the background for the mass departure of professional staff from the health care of children with congenital heart failure. Of course, it must be realized that before all these affairs, child heart surgery was at an expertly lower level than in developed countries. Studying cardiosurgeons is a ten-year project. At this point, it is necessary to establish conditions in which doctors can work and further educate and improve themselves. In NSI, it is expected that the Commission of Inquiry will be able to carry out its investigation work without delay and that actors will be adequately punished for this national disgrace.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Branko Simonovic, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! A lot of words have already been said about the children's cardiosurgery programme in this House. We've heard a lot of accusations, some laundry, promises of how things are going to be different now, and it's going to be provided for the kids and so on. We have almost all fallen for our promises, because we naively expected those who have been spoken to to be genuinely concerned about the welfare and safety of children who are sick at heart, and that they will be able to overcome their differences and fight for domination, proof, according to their own words, who is the greater emperor. Children, some even with their lives, and frightened parents, who, when in need of the greatest professional support, are left without information, without support, and eventually many, even without their greatest treasures — children. In the Desus Group, we believed in the success of the newly established institute, as it was associated with the internationally respected names of children's heart surgeons, but again there was nothing out of it. More mutual accounts and more fruitless debates in the National Assembly. Such a program of child heart surgery still remains in the UKC, where the matter did not work in the past, it may be in the future, we do not know, but unfortunately it is not an area where we could experiment, whether the welfare of children will be put first this time or still prevail over the battle between puffed-up egos, caring for the reputation of an institution and the struggle for prestige and not least the battle for money. And somewhere in the back of the tail, there's a priority for taking care of the kids. The Commission of Inquiry, which will be set up in response to the opposition's request, was finally able to expect it. Some of the topics of political accounting have already been resolved, and child heart surgery is clearly an excellent clearing ground: at the medical level for the calculation of equestrians, at the political level for obtaining political points in the electorate. Experience so far has shown that parliamentary investigations are all too often just a harmless tiger that does not most often bring more than political accounting to cameras. Winston Churchill said a long time ago, "If you don't want to solve the problem, set up a commission." The Slovenian story with the investigative commissions more than confirms his words. The question is also whether such an investigation can in fact establish the political responsibility of public officials in health institutions at the secondary and tertiary level of the Republic of Slovenia. Because in the Desus Group of Members, we felt that this was more a market for puffed-up egos than a political story when we monitored the whole event around the children's heart surgery programmes. The political story became this programme when it became part of the gathering of political points. We would therefore say that it is precisely us Members who bear political responsibility for the entire mess on this programme, because we have made it more vulnerable and exposed to the continuation of cross-accounting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Victory Jelinčič Tribal on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I'll apologize to Victory, she has a press conference, so I'll present my position. In Slovenian health care we are witnessing catastrophic situations in the treatment of children with congenital heart failures. Problems have been present for more than ten years. First, the program began to be resolved in a way that came from Bratislava, then from Israel. Following calls for the non-action of the programme by several state institutions, the Slovenian Medical Chamber of Experts has included international experts. The findings were: human resources deficiencies. The opinion of experts was that the treatment of children was seriously endangered. As a result of constant problems, the former government decided to establish the National Institute for Children’s Heart Disease as a stand-alone centre. According to the Secretary of State, Dr. Ana Medved, the operation of NISB was optimally planned and also fully prepared for operation on 1 June 2018. The operation of NISB is expected to be complicated by the transfer of equipment and personnel from UKC Ljubljana to NISB, UKC Ljubljana and NISB, while the Government as founder of both institutions has no solution to the situation. We will support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party Group, but we have some concerns. Undoubtedly, the proposed deadline of three months is absolutely too long, taking into account the acute situation. The problems have been going on for many years, they are not new, so the action plan should already be prepared at the table of the new minister. The documentation received, however, sets out the information that we are concerned about in the Slovenian National Party Group. By a decision to set up, the Government provided start-up funds for the establishment of a public institution of EUR 165 000 631 and then additional funds of EUR 703 000 273. The situation is worrisome because, for the first time, it's start-up funds, and for the second time, it's extra funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last position, Mrs Nada Brinovšek will present her position on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello and a good day to you all! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group since 2015, when this international report on the implementation of the children's heart surgery programme in the UKC Ljubljana was presented in public, we are particularly reminded of the Ministry of Health of agony, which is taking place and is still taking place on this programme. Why do I call agony? See, UKC Ljubljana was once a highly respected center for the treatment of children with congenital heart failures. In 2004, children’s heart surgery began to show signs of vulnerability due to the departure of the then head of the children’s heart surgery program, who was the only qualified child heart surgeon at the time. The UKC Ljubljana therefore employs a heart surgeon from Bratislava in 2004 and has also left UKC in December 2007 due to poor relationships. After the departure of the Czech surgeon in December 2007 UKC Ljubljana concluded an author contract with an Israeli surgeon who did not have a Slovenian work licence. In January 2012, the public is very excited by the fact that UKC Ljubljana paid almost EUR 1.3 million to this foreign child heart surgeon in four years for operations under the copyright contract for work performed only 3 to 6 days a month. So for 3 to 6 days a month for four years 1.3 million euros. The relationship between doctors was getting worse and, as a result, mediation was determined in January 2012 due to internal disputes, which failed. In September 2012 UKC Ljubljana also leaves Slovenia's doctor, who was educated under the auspices of this foreign heart surgeon, because at least according to him, his professional work and education were disabled. In January 2013, internal professional supervision is followed due to the death case. No one responded to the findings of this professional supervision. In May 2013, KPK found that the UKC had violated the applicable legislation regarding paid copyright fees to an Israeli doctor who did not have a Slovenian license. No one's reacting again. In 2014 the Medical Chamber appoints the International Commission for Extraordinary Professional Oversight for the Implementation of the Medical Activity of Child Heart Surgery, 2007-2014. In a summary of its July 2015 report, the International Supervisory Commission, which carried out exceptional professional supervision, noted that the safety of children's heart patients in Slovenia was seriously threatened between 2007 and 2014 and that the problems that have accumulated since 2007 had an impact on the outcome of the treatment and on the disastrous relationship between the employees themselves. Since those responsible for the UKC Ljubljana and the Ministry of Health did not respond to the January 2013 internal expert review report, to the Commission's report on the prevention of corruption of May 2013, or to the international report on emergency professional supervision of 25 July 2015, the Slovenian Democratic Party has therefore been alerted by the Ministry of Health in 2015, 2016 and 2017 by reference to the extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee. Our aim was to alert those responsible to the impossible situations that have deteriorated year after year. We have proposed a series of conclusions and a series of recommendations. Of course, it does not need to be stressed that all of our proposals for conclusions at the meetings of the Committee on Health and at the meetings of the National Assembly since 2015, which have gone in the direction of investigating the responsibility for the situation and of preparing measures to improve the situation in children's heart surgery, have always been rejected by the coalition in the previous term. On the day, new and new information was received on the uncontrolled situation at the Paediatric Clinic, the Heart Cardiosurgery Department, the Children's Surgery Department and intensive therapy within the Surgical Clinic. At the beginning of 2917, the then professional director of UKC Ljubljana proposed discharge of the professional director of the Paediatric Clinic on the basis of extraordinary professional supervision. He was to blame for the poor working situation at the clinic, which led to a number of complications, but this procedure was interfered with and intervened with Milojka Kolar Celarc and the director of the Paediatric Clinic was not relieved or called to account. That the policy or former Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc was involved in the recruitment of UKC Ljubljana, the former Executive Director of UKC Ljubljana publicly describes the impact of policy on the management and management of public health institutions, which was here in Ljubljana on 11 December. At the meeting, the former Executive Director of UKC Ljubljana describes how she and the Director General of UKC Ljubljana at the Ministry of Health were doing — I repeat, washing — their brains and preventing them from solving the professional director of the pediatric clinic, who in her opinion is objectively responsible for many complications at the Paediatric Clinic. And I'm going to take the words of the headmistress at this meeting. I quote: “After the event, according to brainwashing at the Ministry, the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana withdrew the proposal for the discharge of the professional director of the Paediatric Clinic. In June, however, we again demanded the resignation of the director of the Paediatric Clinic. At that time, a universal psychological and other war began. The following day, the Minister of Health requested the resignation of the Director-General and the Director-General.” End of quote. Nehote raises the question why the Minister defended the professional director of the Paediatric Clinic at all costs and why the Director-General of UKC and the Director-General had to leave because they pointed out the problems. When we warned and proposed certain decisions in the Slovenian Democratic Party at the meetings of the parent committee on this issue, the former Minister has convinced us at every meeting, of course, when she has come to this meeting, that we are imposing on her tasks that are not within her competence as Minister of Health or Government. But look at him! In December 2017, after almost three years of warning, the Government and the former Minister of Health only studied that they were somehow responsible or responsible for solving this problem. The Government is thus in favour of Decision 12. 12. 2017 establishes the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease, which is expected to be operational on 1 May 2018. So the government has decided and set up another public institution, according to the National Institute for the Implementation of the Programme for Children's Heart Diseases, although this programme has already been implemented within UKC Ljubljana, the founder of which was also the Government. But this newly established institution has not brought a solution. It's getting more complicated. The situation in the field of the implementation of children's heart disease programmes at UKC Ljubljana has deteriorated. Cardiologists, surgeons, intensifiers and nurses were leaving. In short, all of these doctors, who left at the end of 2017 and early in 2018, left — so stated what we could read in the media — due to poor relationships and poor working conditions. The new institute, therefore, did not seem to have received domestic experts, claiming to be home-grown doctors. Foreign experts coming to Ljubljana have only increased the relationship between doctors at UKC Ljubljana and the National Institute. In May 2018, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we reiterated our request for a meeting of the Health Committee entitled "Relationships in the treatment of children with congenital heart failures". The Director-General of UKC Ljubljana said at this meeting that the problem that arises in children’s heart surgery, intensity and surgery is a national problem. National problem! The former secretary at the Ministry of Health, Ana Medved, was of a different opinion and said at this meeting, I will quote: "I will be brief today. Why? I estimate that today's meeting is unnecessary if not even harmful. We should be aware that damage is done by spreading false information." End of quote. So in the Slovenian Democratic Party and everyone we discussed at the time did harm. And when we asked her why the government had established the National Institute, she replied, and this time I will quote, "Why? Because the problems have been dragging for more than 10 years and because the problems have not solved the mediation between employees, which cost EUR 31 000 and lasted two years. Human relations have been poor, and there has been no transfer of vital professional information on patients between doctors, which is essential for safe and quality treatment. That's why both doctors and nurses and other staff left the department. So you have to start building a house on new foundations." End of quote. Now, in her view, it was necessary to build a new house instead of calling those responsible for the situation to account. The cause of these problems was and is still a human factor and not a house. Look, it's like there's a big family in some big house that's got a lot of fights, has different interests and doesn't respect each other, and then this family suddenly decides, and now we're going to make a new house, move, and now we're going to get along, and life is going to go on happily ever after. Whoever believed Secretary of State Anna Medved at the time was his business. So, in the previous term, the government decided to build a new house, and unfortunately, before one year later, it also collapsed. So she set up the National Institute instead of biting into a sour apple and demanding the responsibility of those who are guilty of bad relations and consequently bad relations. The National Institute did not start its operation on 1 May 2018 as originally envisaged and not 1. Seven. 2018, as confirmed by the former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health at its regular meeting in June 2018. The fact is that the operation of the National Institute was complicated by the transfer of equipment, personnel and programmes from UKC Ljubljana to the Institute. Even more so, all matters became complicated when the Institute of Health Insurance rejected the financing of the Children's Heart Surgery Programme to the National Institute for 2018. In 2018, the National Institute adopted €165,000 of start-up funds for its operation by the state budget and was allocated an additional €1.7 million from the state budget at the end of August. And where is this 1.7 million now? Look, there's no institute, there's no money, there's no positive effects. Minister of Health Sam Fakin decided last week that the program of child heart surgery should remain under the auspices of UKC Ljubljana. Of course, all of this raises a question about which decision is right here, if any. Is this all just another mistake and a failed project by Milojka Kolar Celarc, or is it a failed project by the former government, or is it a failed project for the expansion of the former government, says this government, or is there perhaps more, maybe political or private interests in the background? I would like to stress that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we do not want to judge which organizational form of the institution is best for the safe and quality treatment of children with congenital heart problems. However, we want the situation to be regulated in the implementation of the children’s heart surgery programme, so that those who have brought the child’s heart surgery programme to such a collapse will be called to account, and that parents will again trust the institution and doctors who are very good – of course if they are at all – and who are treating their children. This, or this, will be the task of this commission of inquiry in the first part. The second part of our proposal to set up an investigative commission, presented in more detail in the introductory position by her colleague Jelka, is intended to determine why procurement of medical equipment and medical material at secondary and tertiary level in the health sector has led to a violation of the law on public procurement, other laws and internal acts of individual institutions. The fact is that stories such as vascular resistors need to be done once and for all and that someone is finally responsible for their actions that are not in accordance with the law. Of course, I want a lot of success in her work with the Commission of Inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your party's position. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate. The first word is Mrs Lidija Ivanuša [[…]] Mrs. Godec, did you get that? Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you. According to these views, I have something to say to my fellow Members. You say we will not perform politically – because we all perform politically! These investigative commissions are politically established – and what do you expect? Yes, we all expect solutions and therefore do not say that you hope that the Commission of Inquiry will not act politically. It works politically, and a colleague will also act politically and other colleagues; so forget it. The second is that you do not separate through investigative commissions to the left, right, green, purple, SMC, LMŠ and I do not know everything and that everything is dealt with regardless of customer affiliation. This means that, as witnesses, those who are being treated, they will call everyone and that it does not happen to come to any group of Members that this is our member, let us leave him alone. I can claim that the previous commission of inquiry has been dealt with; all those who have accepted the media can even know what happened to one of our members then because maybe someone didn't want to protect him. This has to be separated first, these are the things. Next thing. The C.E.C. has so far had no, as we say, hashka, no value, nothing. Those who worked in the previous term and who were accompanying the commission of inquiry, I will say all those who were in the previous term are those who came to conclusions, I think that the first to give final reports, and then such nonsense today would not say – that there were no conclusions that did not help our health care or that the one from Angeta Logar clearly pointed out the irregularities, made the announcements of crimes, made the conclusions also for the political action forward, so for the Government, what could it change. [[…]] To say that they have done nothing, then you say that you Members have done nothing and that you are stopping the commission from being set up to hide something or whatever. No, the commission of inquiry is set up in the National Assembly to discover something, because unfortunately in Slovenia, national authorities, SDT, KPK, the Court of Auditors and so on are concealing. First of all, this. Those who will be working on the medical investigation committee – but I agree with my colleague Trčko – will need to be deepened very well, because just so, the average of the assessments will not work. For the first time, because of child cardiology and not surgery – I warn you this, not surgery: cardiology! Surgery is part of child cardiology, because child cardiology is divided into intensity, cadria and surgery, and not to talk today about child surgery, that's the only part. And if only we were looking at that particular thing – forget it! It is necessary to look at the whole set, the whole programme should be watched, as the previous minister also spoke about the entire programme. So we're going to make a programme that will cover all the factors in different sections of the UKC and so on. That's one thing. Of course, we are not competent to determine whether this little heart has been treated professionally, far from that. I have to tell you, when we had conversations with people from this area in NISB or UKC Ljubljana in the parliamentary group, wherever, we listened for an hour, an hour of complaining about how certain doctors did not properly insert the tube, this one, the third one, I don't know what. When I asked this man, what did you put in place professional supervision for this – because I am not competent to decide now – whether this doctor was doing the right thing, whether he was doing the right thing or not, but was that look: “Please?!" Yeah, that's what professional supervision is for! Control over whether this programme – not just the programme, including UKC Ljubljana and other hospitals, the Ministry – worked properly in the case of systemic operation, management, but it is another. Because we can see through history something -- in this area, if I'm just dealing with child surgery, both the PKK and the international report have identified irregularities, and the state or government, the ministries, and, after all, the National Assembly have not reacted. They're not. And then it was said, yes, because you were in the government. Look at the time the reports were made. I can't say right now, yes, this government was exactly to blame, but in the views of the parliamentary groups, I can already hear who did it. Okay. In 2007, the so-called Janša government was called the government, and then the government of Pahor was so on. The reports were in 2013, my dears. And when you get a report on the table, as she got, say, Milojka Kolar Celarc's 2015 report, an international report, she made a fool of it, literally, I can't say otherwise, and on all committees she said, how is everything okay – who is to blame? One and the other! But especially if you know something, if you know something, then you have to act, one way or another. In 2013, KPK stated in its findings that the former director and the director had violated the law, that they had concluded with a foreign doctor of the copyright contract and that it was not possible to consider its work to be copyrighted — but nothing would happen! But nothing happens. Let's move on. The international report says about irregularities inside, even professionally – nothing happens! Now who's to blame? Then we hear from a group of Members in the position that it is all us Members who are to blame. This is as a colleague said in his previous term – who was he? Horvat – that it is all our fault that the public health network is not made. Read in your views what nonsense [[…]] As I say, yes, we can look for political responsibility at the Ministry. See, last Monday – I don't know what date it was, December 11th – there was a consultation in the National Council on the influence of policy on the management and management of public health institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. None of the Members were present! I took a look at it tonight. Look at what Mrs. Marija Pfeifer, former professional director of UKC Ljubljana said, what political pressures have been exerted on her – I am politically speaking because this was done at the former Ministry of Health – when she wanted to follow the findings of the controls when they found that the former professional director of the pediatric clinic was objectively responsible for the situation and therefore wanted to leave this job. In the end, she said that there were even Stalinistic methods. Well, I'm not gonna get my hands on this right now, but look at these statements. Look at this. The next issue is, for example, on the Committee, which we also referred to in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the subject, which was now on 16 November, the President of the Medical Chamber said that in 2017 they had more discussions with the Ministry of Health on the subject of child cardiology, that they represented various issues, including the UKC presented its things as to how to solve, at which time the Director was also the Director of Coppač and the professional director of Pfeiferev – the Ministry had no comments. When the next meeting was held, everything was fine again, and the President of the Medical Chamber asked the secretary at the time whether she thought that the questions of responsibility in UKC Ljubljana should also be addressed in previous mandates, Dr. Ana Medved firmly replied: “No!” So the Ministry didn't want to reveal responsibility. Why does this seem important to some that responsibility for backward also needs to be established? Because some of those who were within the previous programme are still operating in UKC Ljubljana. Now, some of them have removed themselves, they say, and one of them is still there. In Slovenia it is so that no one has ever been responsible for anything until now, if I only speak for health care. Nothing! All goes well forward, one goes to retirement, one goes to another job to hide a little, so for a few years, then comes out again. So, political responsibility can be identified and things can change in the past and also in the future if someone looks at things a little back and once after a table says that things don't go from management to the ministry. It was said that Slovenian health care is at a very high level – professional. I agree. Then tell me why a man doctor who has received the highest recognition in Slovenia, who is a member of the European and Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, no longer allows research activities in Slovenia. Maybe because it's the one that showed the irregularity in some case. Maybe. We keep people like this from further research, and now you're saying we're great. Yeah, we're great. Indeed, in some areas we are obviously pioneers, and the question is, in the long run, it certainly helps patients, but today the patient wonders what it does to me, but in the end I stand in the next six years with that doctor. It's not the doctor's fault, it's not the doctor's fault. I'm not saying I mean, they're working full! [[…]] I have to say, the last time I look at them, they're really burning. And you said all of this in these things that it's populism, that all doctors are bad. Doctors themselves, if we're talking about doctors, as well as management personnel, and the buyers, and the chairmen of clinics, and departments, should show themselves on the wrong side, raise their hand, and say, look, my colleague, that's not how we're going to go; that's not right – and so on. No, they put their heads away and move on because they don't want to deal with anything. That's it! Because he's silent, and that's why those who are good doctors burned down the nurses and I don't know who, because of that, I'm going to say, get some black spot. Let them raise their hands and say, "Look, no more." That's enough. We're not gonna do circuits. We're not gonna do circuits. We're not gonna do circuits. We're not doing this anymore, and we're not taking hypocrisy here anymore! Let's say okay, let's get a call at the institution, let's get whoever's got the accreditation, who's doing a good program, run it, but not get the money to the hospital, and the hospital's looking for a perimeter to get the money to the private. And then they say it's just as good for the patient as it was said – I think one of the colleagues said they were talking – if we did everything by the book, it wouldn't be good for the patients, they would die. Yeah, well, then let's make sure we don't have to cheat! Clearly, however, the country leaves these matters with its laws and all that it does not reveal. Nothing ever happens to anyone! No one is ever responsible for anything, not for one euro, not for a hundred million! One more time. I'm not going to figure out why there were professional mistakes, because, as Comrade Duck said, far from being able to get into it. And these are sensitive themes, I agree. Do not think that this is a very easy area — a very slippery area! I must say, those of you who will be on the committee of inquiry, I hope that you will not bring death cases on the day that you will not draw these cases, because then you will come to this professional part, which is not right. We're dealing with a management problem. Why was NISB established? Maybe it's good that he was founded, maybe it's good. Why such a failed case points to many things, but it is painful for the former government to move forward in this area. I may still hope it was in good faith, but now it turns out it wasn't. [[…]] Dr. Gregorič – yes, he must be a recognized expert and so on, I believe that in good faith, but when they finally tell you that and boast that you have supported this law so that doctors from third countries can normally engage in action. [[…]] Finally, you get a statement from the Medical Chamber that they could not register a doctor from abroad, so license because there were problems with documentation due to incomplete applications and – why else? – their visit was not announced. There has also been one doctor’s employment — not in line with the acquired competences of not going into detail. What we heard on the committee was said when these doctors did not have all the b.p. papers – at least they did not prove professionally. The Medical Chamber has requested systematic supervision at the Ministry several times. Even on the board, the minister said they'd talk again. As far as I am listening to the press statements now, the system's monitoring will continue to be discussed by NISB. Why not systematic surveillance, why not? Once again, the parliamentary commission of inquiry in the National Assembly would not, of course, be necessary if all the competent authorities acted as they did in a normal country, that when a deviation occurs, they would cut their ears to start working, and we would put them under the rug. And that's the problem. The Commission of Inquiry does not, as some Members obviously think, primarily citizens, have the power to shut anyone down – if I say so at home, to condemn him. We really don't have that authority. However, we have the power to declare suspicions of crime, warnings or all of these referrals to the competent authorities and then it is up to them to carry things forward and determine and so on whether this case is sufficient for a criminal complaint. But not in six years! Since 2013, these veins have been drawn, that now, when you say vein support, you think you've just told a thousand times and everyone's got a suitcase full of them. Why doesn't this happen, because we gave them the documents and everything, and I believe that things will move on. Then you say the former government has done much in the field of public procurement. Don't joke! What kind of public order?Oh, my God! The law was amended in the meantime, but nothing about it. You say that an Intravizor was established where there are prices, but these are prices within Slovenia. Is this comparable to the European Union, or is this comparable to the European market? It's nothing! Indeed, what the Court of Auditors found was 2014-2015 in UKC Ljubljana, 70 million past public tenders or past previous proceedings, but the Commission of Inquiry is from 2007 until the start of the establishment. Also read this well and do not say that we are working in a narrow segment from 2007 to 2018, so we will also take over the other Janša government, and we will take over Pahor's government and Cerar's government and Alenka Bratušek's government. Please stop with the political Flossules, that the Commission of Inquiry is set up to gain political points – of course only some – and that only a certain period will be investigated. No! No! From 2007 to 2018: the field of child cardiology, why there has been such a collapse as has occurred. You say that now the critical mass of children is not enough; nor will it continue, but do not think that we will have 200 children from 2019 onwards, which will be enough for the entire programme. He won't! Since we have 80 to 100 children a year and we will still send children abroad, it will still have to be cooperation with foreign centres and it will not be illusional to say here that from now on, when Fakin said it was in the UKC, everything is resolved. Far, far from it! We can hope that things will normalise, but not think that we will have 200 children with congenital heart failures from 2019 onward – I hope that even fewer than they are now. As far as procurement is concerned. In the previous term, you have read to the Commission of Inquiry, and it is not possible for you to do so, but it has been said in the sense that this is too narrow an area to look at. Now that we've gone wide, now it's not okay. I know that political opponents and those who may not agree, but you cannot satisfy everyone, but this area has also been determined through our investigator through the Court of Auditors that things need to be looked at a little bit more. I hope that all those findings from this investigative commission will be a great help to the NPU and SDT that something will finally move here; not just for them for the ministry. The former Minister obviously didn't care. I hope it's for this minister. So to all those who will work in the investigative commission, at least now, I want you to get into things – everyone – and then you can not constructively discuss them, but actually come to objective conclusions, far from political backgrounds.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u21	Your Honor, thank you for your discussion. Now, Members and Members, we are going to a general debate. I give you my word again, Mrs Lidija Ivanuša, as I have told you before, and Mrs Godec has rushed you. And get ready, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u22	Well, hello, all of you! As we know, the problem of the inefficiency of the health system appears in the incorrect organisation of a network of health services or health activities. This gives us an explicit example of the operation of the children's cardiology programme in the Republic of Slovenia. From an economic point of view, effective health care is one that uses financial and other resources with the greatest possible health benefits or public health benefits. According to her household, she can act like a good master. However, inefficiencies are shown in purchases of more expensive devices, poor management of medical equipment and in inefficiencies in the purchase of medical material. The government has already allocated certain funds to launch an institution which has not been effective. In the sky, however, the fact that the start-up funds were used for salaries and regresses and other costs is evocative. In the case of a general problem that has lasted for so long, the parliamentary investigation should focus on three key areas, namely the incorrect organisation of health activities, the irregularities in the procurement of medical equipment and medical material, and the management of medical equipment. All these irregularities are read in various reports, letters, debates as a crime novel just waiting for the final epilogue, which hangs in the air somewhere. In the Slovenian National Party, we want not only to expose pigs in Slovenian health care, but also to sanction them. In my opinion, the Minister of Health should take the Commission of Inquiry as an aid to his work. The fact is that the problems of child heart surgery in Slovenia have been dragging for 10 years or more. On this basis, another institute for children’s heart disease, NISB, was established within UKC Ljubljana. Let me point out here that because of disagreements, poor relationships have been lost by good, professional, trained and experienced doctors, thereby endangering the lives of young hearts. NISB has brought foreign doctors to his institute who have been paid extra-standard fat. At the same time, according to data from various media, they have also warned themselves about the unsustainable situation in these institutions and – sorry At this point, we would not talk about failed operations and unsustainable conditions, but about how you plan to resolve and properly sanction the resulting irreparable and unacceptable situations at UKC Ljubljana. [[…]] We are aware that within the UKC, a new public institution has been created or already created, which will again cost more than 1,000 million euros and which is expected to give other business contracts and other contracts, thus bypassing the pay system of more than 5,000 out of 8 000 employees in the Ljubljana Clinical Centre. I wonder if they may not already be employed in the UKC and are carrying out a complementary activity in this institute during their public health service. Today, we are here to bring matters that have harmed our people and, above all, our hearts to the bottom, who is actually responsible for such selfish, cruel conduct. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that someone must be responsible for mistakes, for theft and money laundering and, finally, for the departure of our doctors. All these things were the butter of the previous government, and I sincerely hope that the current government will succeed in solving this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I apologize again, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. The list changes quickly and it's hard to follow. Now you have your word, and after you, the Mags are prepared. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u24	Of course, I will support the establishment of an investigative commission. As president of the Health Committee years ago, I have dealt with similar things, but to this day the thing is only worse instead of better, we have an even bigger burnout in baby heart surgery. At that time, we were very intensely trying to create an environment in which the profession could work as it should. Some of you may have said that we're only going to deal with the former minister again for the past four years, but the problem of child heart surgery is really older, but it's true that in four years nothing smart has happened. We were given the so-called National Institute before vacation, for which, except Mr Gregorič, no one honestly believed it would work, but something had to be done before the elections. You keep telling us the pre-election candy, and so on, it was one of those candy things, and now it's gonna be okay, and it's gonna be okay. It was clear that things would not be so easy to settle because you need experts, and such a program takes years to even live as it should. Well, the government of SMC, Desus and SD protected the minister for four years. You're saying what we're going to do, or Comrade Trček said that we were on the government in Parliament, and we didn't do anything. What the opposition can do is to initiate an interpellation against the minister. And twice as many interpretations were given against Minister Kolareva. But Members of the SMC, Desus and SD protected her twice, so you agreed with her work and thought that the work was doing well, although I am sure that you were even more aware that the matter was not mature and that in fact she could not handle things, because the whole mandate was talking about a health reform that we had not seen up to the end. So you're guilty of today's situation, as I said, for today's burnout; it's just every time it's worse, instead of getting better every time. Next thing. As colleague Jelka said, if the institutions that we have in the country and pay them are not very cheap, doing their job, there would be no need for an investigative commission in the National Assembly. What Ange Logar did with his commission, with problems in banks, would be done in a normal country by the National Investigation Office, by criminals and everyone else, but not that after hearing him I don't know how many witnesses, I don't know how many people involved, criminals are asking for magnetograms of hearings. Hello?Oh, my God! Aren't they in the country to be interrogated? We're amateurs, aren't we? We're not professionals to deal with that. I myself ran an investigative commission years ago where we investigated Mr Jankovic's business in Ljubljana. Criminals came to me to give them magnetograms of hearings, instead of hearing them who are qualified to do so, paid in their jobs and should also be responsible for these things. After not knowing how many years, in 2011, my report, i.e. the report of the commission I led, was transmitted to the National Investigation Office, which was filed with a criminal complaint – up to two, three years ago nothing happened. We saw one house investigation. Well, that's what happened. Now we know that they found 500 000 euros in that safe from Mr Jankovic's son, well, that's what we learned at that time. But everything else is probably going to get old, isn't it, if something doesn't happen? That's why those you say are investigative commissions without a relationship and that someone said that if you want something not to be discovered, they'll set up a commission. These committees, led by me, led by Ange Logar, led by Jelko, brought results of great importance. But, of course, we are not a judiciary, we are not criminals, we are not police, we can only identify political responsibility, but criminal responsibility must be identified by the authorities established, called and paid for it in this country. If it had not been for the investigation committee of Jelka’s colleague, we would still be paying her vascular support more than once more or several times more expensive. But it's just one of the 20,000 items we're overpaying in this country. And again, why does the commission of inquiry have to report that then the gentlemen from the NPU, the criminals, are going to look at seven companies and find out what was going on. And they're investigating, and I don't know if it's just the cords or something, because these people are supplying a lot of stuff. But then we see on TV that out of the seven companies that were involved in the report, and it was found that they took advantage of the expensive medical equipment and devices, the three that made the least money in the story were written on television. But the one who made the most of it, who had a 70% share, didn't. Hello?Oh, my God! We didn't see that on TV. And we don't know if they went there and looked at computers and all the other stuff so they could figure something out and eventually convict someone. Because, as we say, we are not responsible for this, we find political responsibility, so this is also the proposal for an investigative commission. We will find political responsibility. Did the minister, the minister, in her time do what she could? We're saying no, many of them and also someone at the Clinical Center. My buddy Duck said, but now we're gonna be dealing with little kids' hearts, and I don't know what. No, we won't, because we're not experts. We won't operate on them, and we can't even deal with them. But it is the policy that creates the conditions that things can function normally in the Clinical Center. I've already said in one session that work, I'm not going to say just in the Clinical Center, even in other health care institutions, is poorly organized. This is not the fault of the nurses, who then work too hard because the work is poorly organized. Or the work is duplicating itself needlessly. Let's leave another problem, an information system that we know is a big problem and we don't have a happy hand in anything in this country. All the information systems we have on Durs, the electronic land book, everywhere where we have some information systems, are very expensive, it takes a long time to train them, and then they don't work half the time. As if we don't know, I don't know, but let's buy something abroad, if we don't know how to do it ourselves, even though I don't believe because we have enough experts, but of course we don't usually choose those who know it and who do it well, but those who are our friends, so those who rule. [[…]] We also have this case at the Clinical Center, as my colleague, Nada Brinovšek, has already said. At the policy consultation on the management and management of public health institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Pfeifer said a number of important things and we are therefore engaged in political responsibility in Parliament and in investigative commissions. You claim, some, that the profession must take care of and arrange the profession. Yes, but the lady said she wanted to replace the professional director of the Pediatric Clinic – the colleague did not mention, and I will – Mr Kendo, but of course Mr Kenda is a friend of some, including the supporter of Mayor Jankovic and so on. And as soon as she told him that she would drop him because he was objectively responsible for the situation and that he was not doing things the way he should have done it, the lady was immediately called to the Ministry, and Mr Kendo had to be protected – didn't she? Against getting rid of it, even though it's considered that the director can remove someone if he doesn't do well. Thank God you did. And then you tell some people that politics can't be interfered with, that it doesn't interfere. Here you have a case where someone intervened, the lady said it publicly, and if we were a normal country, someone would come here because this is corruption, Mr Kend, Madam Minister, to ask why she did not allow it to be resolved. Doesn't his superior know he's not doing well? No, we'd rather be changing the director of the Clinical Center than the running tape. [[…]] In the time of Minister Kolareva, I think two or three in four years. Yeah, well, how do they even work? Then how are they supposed to do anything? Who's gonna be the director if he can't replace a bad professional director at the Pediatrics Clinic? Then he prefers to go, because if not, he will eventually be guilty of things that are not done — right? You have a whole magnetogram of how politics affected you. Because of that, but you know, because she's had that effect, it means she's got some results. That's why we demand the responsibility of former ministers. The minister can do a lot of things, organize things, run health policies, have some idea and direction. But it's true that these are things you can't do from today to tomorrow. You need to analyse things, propose measures, prepare measures, do them as soon as possible after you find something that doesn't work, because otherwise there's still damage; it's causing both finances and personnel and other deficits and so on. A colleague from SMC said they welcomed the previous investigative commission to welcome the establishment of these, but that's not enough, you know. You are the government; your prime minister, your president has been Prime Minister for four years. And what did you do? Did you ask the police, the NPO, the criminals to clear things up? You're not. You're working with us on an investigative committee. Hello? You're the government, you have to do it. You're the executive, the one who can't do anything, but you have to do it because you've taken responsibility for it. That's why you've run, I hope you've also had a vision of what health will look like, but I think it's not because in four years your minister with medical reform or with some smart changes hasn't come. That's why, as I said, we put in the interpolation twice, you protected it twice, and after four years, say what was done, except for the affair. We were having an affair in health. There's always something wrong. Not enough nurses, oncology, I mean this, baby heart surgery is falling apart, emergency centers half-done. It's all in half! Now you're going to be in the government for the next four years and you're just going to do what you're going to do. So you're the government, you're the executive, you're the ones who can do something. We can warn you. We in the opposition can warn, ask parliamentary questions, request an investigative commission, investigate. In the previous term, we have explored a lot of things instead of those paid for it in this country. But then you have to experience some epilogue and I don't agree to say that investigative commissions are unrelated. They're not out of touch! If we were to continue the work of Angie Logar, there would be a banker sitting in custody today. If we continued the work of Jelka Godec, the authorities who have to do this today would still be selling medical supplies, probably not hoping to sell three times more expensive because everyone would be afraid to be called to account tomorrow, listen if half of Europe is paying a thing of 100 euros, why in Slovenia do I have 500 euros? But, of course, these gentlemen must be approached and asked. Whether we're interrogators, so, let's hear from the witnesses, we're not professionals to do that. But it seems as if there are no professionals in this country — if criminals from the National Investigation Office ask Anjet Logar for magnetograms of interrogations. Where do we live? And interrogate people after he's found them, when he has to find them somewhere. If the police and the criminals were investigating, they'd probably be found sooner or later if they wanted to find something and find it. But they're dealing with the rich, because we know, with the hot thieves, it's often said. Another general assessment. There's always talk of there being too little money in health care to give more money. Every time I say it doesn't make any sense to put more money into health care until we run it out. It's like you're filling someone's blood, but there's holes in it, and it's running all over the place. We've got to get these things sorted out first. First of all, we can arrange not to overpaid everything we buy in this country in health care. Remember the operating table, remember a bunch of cases, the back of the ventricles, and we're all overpaying for everything else. If we bought things at a normal price, like all of Europe, we would have stayed for the salaries of nurses, for the salaries of doctors, for the better organization of work, for the information system, which is very expensive, and for the information system, which is inefficient, we see, at least in the Clinical Center, where there are more of them, so that things cannot be linked and monitored as they should be. However, our control is limping in all areas. And there are two more lines on political points and the gathering of political points. I mean, I really can't hear that anymore. Look, the basis of our work is that we are Members of Parliament, we are speaking. One also feels like a waste of time, so I suggest you go do something else if you don't think it matters, but it's our job. That is why we have been chosen here to express our opinions, to coordinate our opinions, to conclude some compromises and to make good decisions for people. Our job is to propose laws, propose investigative commissions. But there can be no substitute for what other services and other offices should do, which we have in this country and pay dearly. Every thing we as Members say here, of course, affects whether we will be rewarded or punished in the next elections. I don't know why that would be a problem. This is our job, and this is normal. This is the basis of democracy, which one you obviously don't understand. People look at us and say: “Yes, I agree with this, so next time I will vote for it. But I don't agree with that, and I won't vote for it. He let me down, and next time he doesn't have my voice." Is that what you call getting political points? This is our job, and I don't know why it would be a problem and why it's always obvious that there's going to be political points. We do the things we propose and do to make things better. In the opposition, we are doing this a little harder, and yet we are doing it because we know that all our proposals will be rejected because we know that we are right and that it is our job to do so. But if you know that something has to be done, you have to say it and do it as well as you can; in the opposition as long as we're in the government, we'll do it as we need to. And since we were in government, we know what can and must be done. That's why we won't have you here, and for the next four years, we'll be waiting for something to work out. Many things would not have been settled if there had not been a proposal from our Group first. And then the government finally rejects our marriage, and then the government brings something like that. [[…]] It's like you have no idea what you need to do. I don't know, sometimes at least we've faced opinions and we've had different views, but now sometimes it looks like we're saying something here to someone who doesn't have an opinion on any of the things; not an opinion or an idea of how to sort things out. Typical example – ZUJF. Robbed, horrified, what we've done. We promised people that it would take two years, and then all governments would extend it without any idea of what they would do. Such a terrible, horrible ZUJF, a terrible marriage you've been spitting all over. But when it was your government, you just extended it. It's nice, but no, 300 million a year to save, and in five years, it's a billion and a half. Nice, isn't it? So you can brag about the budget and stuff. I'm sure this investigative commission will point to a lot of people. I think it's also right that someone is responsible for that once. People have taken responsibility, become ministers, and are obliged to do something. They have much more power than we have here in the opposition. And we keep trying to do what we can and do what we can.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Jani Möderndorfer ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My dear motioners, I will support the parliamentary investigation. Firstly, for this reason, since previous parliamentary investigations have already shown that they are – I think we can help the competent institutions. However, I must point out here that, given your long-standing submission of these requests for parliamentary inquiry, I was disturbed by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, or by the error written on the seven pages. That is why I would like to stress so much more that it will be serious, seriously, to take into account the warnings cited by the Legislative and Legal Service relating to the competences of the parliamentary investigation and to focus only on seeking the political responsibility of the holders of public powers. For the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service follows that a possible breach of the functioning of this Commission, in order to establish compensation and criminal liability of any or other interference with the competences of other authorised organisations or other interference with the competences of other authorised organisations and bodies, may constitute the illegal functioning of the Commission. That's not what I want. Therefore, once again, to all members and members of the future Commission, they urge that they pay very close attention to the proposed issues. Otherwise, it will be a collective body, and we also know from the practice so far, that there is a great deal of coordination needed to make things right, and I believe that the proponents are well aware of this. Yes, today's debate will go in the direction of finding the culprits, because in the field of child heart cardiology, it was no longer organized. All these problems have been emerging since 2004. Of course, this can’t be proud of us at all. However, I wish that the parents of these children today would not be more insecure and even more troubled, because I think that we parliamentarians do not know how the parents of these children feel. It is true that many debates have already been held on the working bodies, even at parliamentary meetings, we have been trying to find solutions, so that the only goal for all of us must be to settle matters. My colleague mentioned to me that in the previous term, we did nothing to defend the Minister twice. Indeed, we defended it because we believed that, after these analyses being prepared, appropriate solutions would be prepared. I'm afraid that didn't happen. We have always been very critical of each interpretation. I so sincerely hope that the current Minister has looked into this matter and will approach systemic solutions as soon as possible. We really need to establish safe, quality and timely treatment for these children with congenital heart failure and others. That's what I think is important to us. We must be aware that by 2004 we had one of the most successful programmes of child heart surgery. Where did we waste it? I just don't know. In relationships? In the organization? In fact, it hurts your heart to listen to what is happening in this area of these doctors so that they simply do not gather enough courage and ethics to treat children the way they need to. That they are more open between each other, I don't think we can really be proud. While I am pleased that the Council of the Ljubljana UKC has supported the establishment of a centre for the treatment of patients with heart failure. We have learned this yesterday that it will work towards improving these today's problems, which they have just had so that the organisation of the work of this programme will start to work as it needs to. It is also true that we have only about 80 to 100 such children. And we have to say, thank God, we really don't have them anymore. It is true, however, that it will be very difficult to do so, so it is also necessary to connect with other countries, so that we can actually connect and other children can be brought here, so that that critical mass of about 250 children operated with us will be achieved. The criminal liability, as mentioned several times today, must indeed be sought by the authorised persons, the authorised institutions, the authorities. Here, indeed, is the appeal to them to do what is necessary. There was also a talk about the previous mandate, about the previous commission of inquiry. I must say that the Social Democrats in this committee have been constructively involved. It was not because of us inconclusive meetings, for at the beginning I was disturbed by the observation that the coalition did not constitute a final commission – perhaps I misunderstood – but the Social Democrats always tried to ensure that we actually ensured the conclusion that we had deepened in matters, examined them. It is true, however, that the Commission of Inquiry was very wide and, in addition to everything you have, could only work that time on an investigative committee if you wanted to find out more. Some things we take a little bit more detail, some take them a little bit more superficially, but in fact there are really big problems here, because we don't have just one piece of work, but we still have all the rest of the work, so it really needs to be covered maybe a little bit shorter and that's deeper. I also agree that changes are needed both in the field of public procurement, governance and organisation in public institutions. He also flew the obvious that we have not yet received this new legislation on the table. A hundred days of rule – indeed, I would expect the minister to tell us where we are, what will happen, although I have seen some results in the media. Thus, I must say that the Minister will come as soon as possible with a new law on governance in public institutions so that we can move forward and that is our task. I also agree with specialized hospitals, but I would like to draw attention to the following. If we're gonna go to hospital specials, we need to look at the patient. Why am I talking about this? Because it happens that a heart or oncological patient, specifically in Murska Sobota, has to pay for his own transportation from Murska Sobota to Ljubljana. These costs are not small, I have heard about the amount of 70 euros in transport in one direction. I don't think we can afford this if we're going to specialise in individual hospitals and we have to make sure this doesn't happen. Otherwise, I will be working on this particular case, because I really think oncology is even more sensitive than any other thing, because such a patient is not receiving this help, for example, specifically in Murski Sobota, he has to come. The woman who has a minimum pension of 500 euros, but these ladies have an even lower pension than 500 euros, because they have not worked 40 years full of pensions, are in a very unenviable position or decide what to do: whether to go to treatment in Ljubljana or not. I don't know what happened here, so just to think. If I don't touch this child's cardiac cardiology one last time. Indeed, it must be established in healthy human personal relations, the interpersonal relations of all stakeholders and also be supported by appropriate working conditions for all employees. Only in this way will we be able to accomplish what we all want to do together to help these unhappy children and their parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the word to prepare Andrea Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I read the subject of the investigation with great interest. Of course, I won't say as ironic as one of the debates that she said, of course, it's not enough if you support. But what else can we do to support? Can someone explain to me what else we can do? Shall we do another job for you? Alenka, wait, don't be rude, because otherwise you're known for being cultural, just stay calm. Actually, we don't have to do anything else in the National Assembly. The commission of inquiry will do the job. But it is true that she is most disturbed by this article, that it is disturbed by political points and that I know more. I'm sorry, but every parliamentary commission that was set up is in such a way that certain political parties, of course even in their debates – if not those that led it, and certainly those who came from that party – wanted to point out what work they had done. And colleague Alenka Jeraj did exactly that, listing three investigators as if we had only three investigative committees in 27 years! And, of course, she listed only those led by representatives of the SDS! Nothing wrong with being misunderstood, nothing bad! Far from it, but it was also a demonstration of how someone wanted to earn credit and political points – if she did not understand, fellow Member Jeraj. But today it is not because we are going to discuss this and that it is the core of the problem. Far from it! I must say that I am terribly glad that this inquiry committee has done what I think should have been done in the previous investigative committee, and unlike my colleague, Godec, I will not be grumbled that it is too wide. Oh, no, no, no, no, It's just right that I didn't see anything. That's right. In fact, it is difficult to predict today what the Commission of Inquiry may encounter, and it is therefore right to cover a wide area, and it is right to include a broad subject in order to seriously do its work. But it won't be easy because the subject of the investigation itself is talking about it – huh, I don't know if it's gonna be enough for four years! And that's what's usually important about setting up such committees. However, if the previous mandate has brought something positive, unlike previous mandates, it has brought about the fact that all the investigative commissions have completed their work, the report adopted, which is in fact also progress within the growth of democracy or some small set of members in the National Assembly, not to block it, but to actually make it possible for the investigative commission to carry out its work to the end. Of course, I must say that I am a little disappointed because I listened to a bunch of nonsense in Jeremiah's debate, when he says, the political commission and correctly notes – pardon, investigative commission – and correctly notes that it is intended solely and solely to determine political responsibility. We are not here to do the work of the NPU and what I know who else, but unfortunately, if we want to get political responsibility, we need to look at the whole picture; and if we want to find out this political responsibility, we need to go into the poultry itself. He says we're not qualified. Yeah, I'm sorry, I don't know, then I don't know what all the investigative committees have done so far. Furthermore, on the one hand, we have a commission of inquiry, which even the Constitution provides, by law, and then it is placed in the position of non-professionals at the same time. If I am a bit maliced, all Members are professionals, but let it be understood that they have the possibility of professional assistance, and if they want to do the work of the commission of inquiry with the mission they have, they are well qualified enough to do so. The second is if they run into crimes and all the other things that the Commission of Inquiry does not normally deal with and know exactly what the duty is. But, colleague Jerai's more concerned than this investigative committee. She's worried about the NPU, she's worried about the prosecutors, she's worried about the courts, and so on and so forth, and she's always wondering if they're doing their job. Excuse me, this is what the National Assembly has been asking itself for the last three terms. That's what the discussion is about somewhere else not here and not today and not at this point. It is true that some people today wonder and regret that the National Institute did not perform its task or was not dedicated or even reached what we usually call old socialism, saying that it was an institution in construction and that it had not yet come to construction or what it would call it. However, I hope to say one thing if the National Institute was not established in December, I do not know today if this situation would have been in the Clinical Center to set up a centre, because then I wonder why the Clinical Center did not do this long before the Institute and set up such a centre. Well, this will be especially interesting for Godec colleague and members of this commission of inquiry when she encounters a bunch of interesting dilemmas, issues that have not been raised in the National Assembly and not in the Government, but are mainly an issue of profession. Colleague Godec correctly identifies when he says, we are not here to identify professional errors or professional positions, whether they are or not. However, see if they could solve this problem there — and there is always a problem when we start to wonder what political pressures are. As long as the Minister gives political guidance and works in accordance with the law, everything is fine, once he calls the Director-General and the Director-General to discuss and advise him on what is going on, and even when he realizes that things are going illegally, then they find that these were political pressures. More than a colleague of Godec quoted, the Stalinist reception. Yes, sorry, I have to say, and again, I approve of the investigative committees, this is the time and place to find out in the right way, I do not approve of the reference of extraordinary committee meetings, where one day is made or I will say four hours of political massacre and do more harm than good because we have no answers, what is true and what is not. Therefore, I prefer to see the Commission working for three, four years and coming with an interim or final report, to introduce us and tell us what it has found. That is why I repeat the same thing today, what my colleague said in her position, that they were obvious, why they called extraordinary meetings – because I do not support them, because they are unproductive and infertile, because you know that nothing can be solved within four hours, but that political harm can be done, that professional damage can be done, and that what some do not like to hear is that political points are collected. And that's the problem. That is why I welcome this committee today. But it's interesting that, look, the only profession, for example, colleague Godec said that it's interesting – I don't know if it's true, she knows that because she didn't say her name, I don't even know who she's talking about, I can only imagine – that one of the experts can't do professional research in the Slovenian space anymore. Yeah, for God's sake, did politics do that, or could the profession do that? Who can actually do this to prevent an expert from exploring Slovenia? I don't know if the Minister can do that, I don't know if the Prime Minister can do that, but I definitely know that there's a lot of professional hatred and conflict, and there's a lot of fosci, and they're blocking each other's work for these and other reasons. But when things get complicated, we find ourselves on the political floor. That's always the way it ends most of the time. When, in fact, can we say that politics will finally withdraw from the profession? I'm going to give you the answer you don't want to hear, and you know exactly that I'm right — never. Never. Because it is also an expression of political interference that is abused by fat people. Everyone from the minister and the Prime Minister expects – listen to what they have been discussing, expect – that the President should call the police, that he should call the judiciary, the prosecutors, and ask what is going on with these things, when they will move, what will happen. On the other hand, you have heard what the professional director does when he is called to the minister, when he asks him for health, what he is doing and what they are doing out of this whole hall, or especially when he finds out he is doing illegal procedures, and then political pressures. Excuse me, I will always defend the thesis: the Minister has the right in his field and in any of the institutions where the founder of the state, which he covers in his mandate, to call at any time to explain and clarify all views, and also to tell him what he thinks and what is right and what is wrong. Because, last but not least, he is a bill-maker in the National Assembly and, of course, also the Government's proposals for the adoption of decisions, regulations and regulations, where he can influence certain decisions in order to make professional improvements. Politicians, are we experts? No, we didn't. We're not. But the minister also represents professional decisions. Why? Not because it is a policy, but because it happens to have an education from that area, but because it has an expert apparatus at the Ministry, which it supports, and not least gives it the opportunity to make professional decisions, or even to ask questions, it is worth teaching, doing a study, analysis and certain comparisons. This is a fundamental difference between a Member and a Minister and therefore to talk about the absence of a political impact – the political impact will always be, only the question of who will present it, how it will be presented and how it will say that pressure has been exerted on it. Tell me about someone who's satisfied with the director in his office who doesn't have a public affair and the minister calls him once every three months and says that he was under political pressure from the minister. Never. You won't find one. We can find people who have problems and problems and the minister calls him for a conversation and this statement the next day in the media to put political pressure on him. We can list them, just type one example into Google and you'll see how much of this exists. That is why today it is crazy to cheat and talk and talk about it. Today we have also listened to the following thing, czech, it is clear that the only minister who has been exposed today is likely to bear the left hand share of this commission of inquiry, former Minister Kolarjevo. And all the time, even before the commission even got the members, even before anything was found, it reveals who bears all the responsibility, with the phrases that have just sat down and grabbed, such as: In a reform that was not. I'm sorry – in a reform that wasn't there? Which minister has changed the most laws since history, and from the beginning to the present, except for the first minister who has passed six key laws, which are health-care providers? Who changed them the most, and who had the most polemic and dilemma? Yeah, that minister you're all talking about right now, she didn't bring anything. The only key law — the Health and Health Insurance Act is, in fact, the only law that is also crucial, and it came to the government and then the road stopped because of the resignation and the legislative process ended accordingly because it did not come to the National Assembly. The only law. And we all know how this story went. That is why it is today to talk about the fact that there was nothing really extreme. For someone who's been in politics for a long time, it's called, you have to chase down the same story, so that it's taken place, because then people forget everything in six months, and they repeat what's repeated like a song that's been stuck in the last song. Of course I object to that. Yes, she will be responsible, I am sure that at the end of the report, one of the key topics to be brought forward will be this objective responsibility, which is borne by each minister for his mandate and for his work, which is also identified. Have the mistakes been made? Of course they were! Let the commission find out, not that today's and the Bianca is premeditated about who's the main culprit. Because with the final report we will come to the full picture of how and what opportunities and opportunities the minister actually had at that time to do something. On the one hand, we say that there must be no political pressure, on the other hand, why the Minister did not act. Yeah, but if it's political, it can't do anything! And there are two things that fight that never really go together. That's why my answer to my colleague Jeraev, political interference will always be present. The interpretation thing, the thing is, how will someone look at the matter and just explain that it's what they're doing? Another aspect was mentioned — because it was mentioned several times and in different cases — when the problem began and how experts left and where people had already worked in our country as foreigners without permission and so on. I have repeated it several times, and I will repeat it again, among doctors in this area there would never be a problem if there was no question of money. Human envy after what someone gets, and my neighbor, especially when we're talking about pay, is a horror. This has also been the case in this area, and this is how it all began. The Commission of Inquiry will have a final opportunity here to look at all contracts, payments, including fees, how and how they were paid. This will probably be part of the report, unless one part is due to the protection of personal data in closed work, but in any case we will be able to read them and see them. We will be able to see how the difference has actually begun. The second thing that is very important in this investigative committee is the Medical Chamber. The Medical Chamber – I personally claim, and I hope that there will also be different aspects to this point of view – has not done its business under the law. Even today, the Medical Chamber is unable to exercise professional supervision in this area, which is an eclectic disgrace; that we watch this and nothing happens to the President, does not happen, does not happen to the Chamber, does nothing happen to anyone. Because the chamber won't be able to do that. You know, in such a case, if this is not possible, it is necessary to withdraw the public authority to do so, and it should be given to someone else. I'm still in favour of the Medical Chamber taking a whole bunch of public powers that he has for unnecessary reasons today because he doesn't exercise them. Last time they put on a specialty, there was something else — but, look out, for money. They're stuck because of their narrowness, because of their prestige, so that it doesn't go too far, as far as knowledge is concerned, because then some people wouldn't be able to market. Because the Medical Chamber already has in mind that health activity is an economic activity. And similar things have an effect on the end that we then have such problems that we deal with hearts today. But the problem is not that we have a heart problem – of course it is a problem, but the problem is that I am afraid that we will have if we do not solve the underlying problem that has created a heart problem, such hotspots soon in several different areas of health care. Some today do not see this or do not want to see it, but this problem will come if this problem is not solved. I am therefore convinced that the work of this Commission can bring positive results. I won't be on this committee myself. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No harm done, no harm done. I will not participate because, in fact, I believe that the Commission will do a good job with all the actors, I have wondered who will participate in this committee, and not least with the future President Godec, whom I appreciate in this area, and I believe that this work will do well. Regardless of who politically belongs to whom, what ideas, it is sometimes right for certain things to be led by other representatives who have not been involved in this story in the sense that they would be in the executive branch of power or have it at a time at which the commission focuses, because it is the only way the Commission can be objective. I believe that there will be no such complications as they were in the previous term, and I believe they will be accomplished. The bigger problem I see is that we in our parliamentary practice have a problem, that we have everything assigned, that we are not the only ones assigned to the investigative commissions, when we should actually meet and where this place is. And that we have a problem with how to actually call these meetings and that the presidents are already quite unhappy because they have to compete and two months in advance to solve this problem. Why am I bringing this up? Because it is very important for all the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the President of the National Assembly to sit down and clarify themselves, to also introduce some kind of practice, when these parliamentary commissions will be able to work to ensure that, even after what they can do, they can do without being desperate for these days and minutes when they can actually do something. It is true that most citizens are looking at an investigative committee only through the part that is the public part that they see on television, in fact I say that it is 10-20% of the work and that everything else is not visible. And this work is huge, so I've never known anyone who's willing to run such a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u30	My friend Jani, it's a shame you won't be on the committee of inquiry, given how much you've put up now, you could already write an interim report. If we say, let's be objective, let's not conclude in advance, then let's be done to the end, so to the end of the work of the commission of inquiry, to these conclusions, without speaking, the Medical Chamber has done nothing, they need to be given the authority. Yes, fellows, you've been on the government since 2014! We could do that. You're saying, they've put on specializations, they're acting like health is an economic activity. I don't know, I think it could be done if you tell them all of this there were no professional controls, but when they demanded systematic control at work, Fakin doesn't move. [[…]] But it doesn't move. We listened to the Health Committee to consider a press conference to sit down with the Medical Board and discuss it. And the Medical Board required systematic supervision. Systemic control is something other than professional, for those of you who don't know. So let us stay here in these – and if you think the Medical Chamber is already dealing as if health is an economic activity, you will obviously have major problems with the current minister because he advocates: hospitals should act as economic societies. So there will be very interesting things here. That's all I'm saying is that let's just say about the commission of inquiry today, really stay on the point of not judging in advance, who's to blame, who hasn't done anything. But the facts are, some of them, the papers exist, that is, from the Court of Auditors, the KPK and also the Medical Chambers, that certain things have not been done, but they could be. We can build on that. But not just to say again, the Medical Board didn't do anything, he didn't do anything. The fact is also that the NPU, SDT since 2013, has been grinding through and through this vein. That's also a fact. How much is that? Five years. And there's something else. In January 2018, the Court of Auditors submitted this to the UKC for 2014/2015, for this 70 million, question of how long we will be watching this. And I'm not saying anything that we went too far with this investigator, that's what the others were complaining about, I'm just saying, we were too narrow before, now we're too wide, but I agree, here's all the questions, what else is going to fall out, what kind of skeleton is going to fall out somewhere else. I did not say anything, we heard in the debate. [[…]] The SPS said it could happen that they exceeded their powers and so on at certain times, but here a colleague who will probably lead another investigative commission said well: if you want to discover the political responsibility of the holder in public office, that is, the minister or the Prime Minister or those who are politically responsible, you have to look more broadly. Nothing really helps me if, as a witness, I bring only a public function holder, political, responsible — nothing. So we have to go deeper. It is true, however, that all requests are made before a court of law. The court will also decide whether we are within the legal framework or whether we are within the framework of the creation act and so on. So far — even in the previous commission of inquiry, where it was similarly written, since nothing else has been written in all this terminology — there have been no problems. And I don't see them either. But it is also true that we are never on an investigative committee – and I believe that in the future it will not – explicitly say, this and this director is guilty because we are not legally competent to determine this responsibility, so it is his fault. We've only made allegations of crimes. And as I said, the competent authorities should then determine whether he is guilty of a criminal charge, whether he is guilty, is not guilty, and so on. However, we have stated the objective responsibilities of ministers. This is within the legal framework. So please stop saying that the investigative commission can act unlawfully already in advance. Already in advance. You are tearing your own work down, because at the end, when you sign or vote for the interim or final report, you will spit these statements into your bowl, as we say, because someone will say yes, but at the beginning you said that this is illegal what you were doing. We Members are here to lead and act legally in all contexts, and we also adhere to all these proposals made by the SPS. And we never, even in previous investigative committees, went beyond these laws, because then of course something else would have been said. There's something else I need to say. UKC Ljubljana already had a center for the treatment of children with congenital heart failure. He already had the center from, I think, 2013 forward, maybe I was wrong, or early in 2014, but I think 2013. He's had a center since then. The leader was the director, one of the intensifiers. He already had a center. But then this center had to be shut down, it was shut down, and NISB was established. And today again, not today, yesterday or the day before, I do not know when, the UKC Ljubljana General Director's proposal was again addressed by the Council of the Institute of UKC Ljubljana. Again, or I'll say a new, new center. So not to say that this centre was not already able to do the UKC in the past, they tried, they had it, then there were various differences, such and different ones. And according to the statements we have, we can assume that the then expert director of the Pfeifers was trying to solve things in some normal way, that there were treaties or treaties with foreign centres and so on. Once again, however, according to her statements, there has been political pressure to stop things. And that's when NISB was established. Once again, I say, the NISB question, if it wasn't a good thing in terms of because it's turned out to be a lot of things now. It is a question of why, I think, the question will also be within the commission of inquiry – the government of Mira Cerar at its last meeting when it left, when it knew that NISB had no other director and ficus, allocated a million 700 to this institution. Why? There were no doctors, no material conditions, no spatial conditions, nothing. The UKC closed down, if we look at it, there was no such cooperation as the Ministry had foreseen. Why does a million 700 to the institute that doesn't work, for which Dr. Gregorič, the head of the professional supervisory authority, who was somehow in charge, in public, say, we tightened the manual brake, stopped things there somewhere in July, August? And the government at the last meeting gives a million 700 to the institute that doesn't work, whose founder it is, and it has two institutions, UKC and NISB, which both get about 2 million for this program, and all of a sudden nothing if I cartoon. Nothing. So there are a lot of open questions about NISB. Only one thing I would say is that a certain doctor is not allowed to do research, it is by the Ministry of Education, so it goes not by the tertiary activities of UKC Ljubljana, but by the Ministry of Education. It is a matter of promoting research activities and it is also a political decision, either in quotations or in concrete terms. Because those who have decided on this and have been, I'll say, something after the research and something called through the ministry and so on. So it's not that the UKC wouldn't let him, it's the ministry itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The replica has Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u32	Maybe I was a little vague. Just two things. When we talk about the fact that the Medical Chamber was unable to carry out professional supervision, these are statements by the President himself. That's not my conclusion, that's not someone's finding out. She said so herself. As far as it goes, and this was required in the previous term, of course they were not able to carry out — yes, it was the center, but unfortunately it was on paper. Organizationally speaking, this was one of the departments. But that wasn't the center we wanted. The Institute was designed to separate an independent legal person from this so that they would no longer interfere with these. This was the main purpose — to get rid of it. Of course the infrastructure is used and so on. I'm not going to comment on that one million seven hundred, because then it would look like we're finding out here. But it will be interesting to hear from Mr Gregorič, such a minister, both those who decided on this decision, as the director of the clinical centre, what was the reason and demanded for this million 700. This million 700 isn't because someone liked it to put a little bit of $700 there. The requirements were that the centre or institute simply cannot work if it does not have the money. Then why did she tighten up like a Godec colleague said, well, it's a matter of commission task to come to that. And I'll be happy to read the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Representative of proposalant Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u34	It is true that we will not come to conclusions, and I do not want to reach conclusions, but I have the reply of the Minister of Health, for which this million 700 was intended. This million 700 was intended for the insurance of six doctors who worked during the NISB period. It was intended for material costs intended for the costs of employees, and this is it. That's it. This was the answer of the Minister, who apparently signed this answer to my question without knowing what it said. Because the board was then told they'd tell us what it was about. But I must say, after talking to some of the NISBs, it was said that money was the last thing we would talk about. The problem is, they can't bring doctors if they don't have a place to put them. So it was not satisfied with material conditions or spatial conditions. As I say, we'll see where that money went.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. There have been changes on the list of panellists. Only Bevk has the word to prepare Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! It is today that the real purpose of setting up such or other parliamentary commissions of inquiry is to show itself. A real school case, an example for textbooks. Today we are setting up two committees. One is requested by members of the coalition and the Left, and the other by members of the SDS, NSI and SNS. Political responsibility will thus spread throughout the political scene, and the effects or findings of parliamentary investigative commissions can be highly questionable. Today, we will not vote on the establishment of both commissions of inquiry, as it is sufficient that the parliamentary commission's appointment requires at least a third of the Members and Members, and the National Assembly must order this. In my view, the existing legislation is good enough to bring matters to the bottom, only to be respected and implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Jože Lenart has the word to prepare Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u38	Your Honor! I come from the views of the LMŠ Group, which we have presented today, where I think we have pointed out a particular problem. I want to participate constructively in this committee, that's a fact. In doing so, I will take care of the following: that we do not do wrong to those good medical teams who are already doing well today, who are suffering because certain things are not working properly, and that is why they are also fleeing Slovenia elsewhere. This parliamentary commission is of course important, but I personally think that the ongoing work of the Ministry of Health is even more important, and we have an indirect responsibility that health reform will be effective and that it will go in the right direction. That's essential because we're running out of time. This is a priority for me and this is also my personal mission in this mandate when I am in this Parliament. For a moment, that's all I wanted to say. I wish we could get started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u40	Some of you are amazing in your statements. You already know in advance what the conclusion of the commissions of inquiry will be both the coalition and us in position. I don't know why you're even backing them up, why you even signed with them, if you already know that there's going to be political dispersion, that it's going to be politically challenged, and I don't know what else. I have already said in the beginning that every commission of inquiry is a political decision, of course because it is taken in the National Assembly, but you must distinguish between what is being established, whether politically, and how the Commission of Inquiry works. If you're talking in advance, as I said, about the illegal functioning of the commission of inquiry, about political investigation, and I don't know what it is, so about lynching people, then I don't know why you're signing. If you are concerned about the good work of not doing wrong – I have heard this in the previous term when the previous commission of inquiry was established, we will be careful that you will not do wrong and then there is an implementation, everything has run well, today the colleague has also said that she has cooperated constructively, but I agree that when the final report was reached, then everything was wrong again and they want to show that we have wronged someone now that we have wronged doctors. They made it themselves. Those who do not do what is right have made a mess of themselves and have them answer for it. Whether it's a doctor or a buyer or a director or a minister or a Janez Novak, I don't care. Don’t worry about those bastards who did bad things — not about doctors — professionally bad. Don't worry and don't make them feel sorry for you. Don't make me feel sorry for the story of the "poor" people who will say, I did everything for the patients, if I were to stick to the law, my patient would die. You're on the government, you say. I'm interested in the work. Yeah, that's why you're on the government and do this to the government. As you say, time is running out – the train is already running out. I agree. It's a work in progress, so work, you're on the government. However, since the current coalition, as well as the previous coalition, does not want to deal with responsibility in different segments, not just in health care, the parliamentary investigation is one of those that can detect and speed up matters. Once again, do not feel sorry for those who work for their pockets and thereby hurt others.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Unfortunately, you cannot have it, because the time has passed for your Group of Members. The list of discussers has been changed again, so now he has the word Tomaž Lisec, to prepare Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Colleagues, fellows, good-bye to everyone! At the outset, I may refer to the statements or words of my colleague Jelka Godec, who is right to speak only about the suspicions of such and other matters or irregularities that have taken place in the field of certain matters within the healthcare sector in the past term. The fact is, however, that probably any commission of inquiry in the National Assembly would not have to be established if someone else were to do the work that members of a certain commission of inquiry had to dig up first, then turn it over to the prosecution. People are asking why you even had an investigative commission, where you have been politically betting, after everyone expects the next step to take the lead, but, at least according to the history of Slovenian investigative commissions, there is little or little wrinkle. Why did I choose to debate today? Because I support both matters that this investigative commission is going to investigate, and in some cases I know quite a few things. However, I will follow with interest all the discussions and all the meetings of the various investigators on this investigative committee. First, with regard to the implementation of the children's cardiology programme. I must say that I have been fortunate enough to follow this area a little better, but I will not talk about the people I know there, and I must say that I was very disturbed by the sentence of fellow Member Jani Möderndorfer, who said, "Yes, it's all about money." According to my information, according to my knowledge, money was probably only in the fifth, sixth place, everything else was before, cattle, laboured people who worked after fourteen, sixteen hours, who even – one of them said that he would prefer to be a garbage man for at least a few days, to at least calm down mentally, rather than still go to work on child cardiology or child heart surgery. And the other thing I have decided to discuss is the matter which, in fact, has been employed by the National Assembly in the past term through extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, through urgent meetings of the Health Committee, as well as on budgetary matters, and in particular the news by the former Prime Minister and former Minister, how much money we have wasted, i.e. regarding reckless and illegal purchases and the whole event at the secondary and tertiary levels of health in the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to child heart surgery, as I said before, I think that money is not the key moment for all the things that have been happening since 2007 and the arrival of one and the arrival of another doctor, and then the situation has deteriorated disastrously in 2016, especially in 2017 and 2018, because, we have written down nicely, the last three cardiologists have left. Here, in fact, the whole story turned to its head, instead of serious responsibility mainly within the UKC and the Ministry of Health in the time before the parliamentary elections, there was a story about how we will establish a new national institute and everything will be better. And only after hundreds of days of this new recycled government came to realize that it was essentially just a pre-election promise that had nothing to do with the actual state. That they received a top-notch expert from America who was probably alone or was one of the few who believed that it was worth dealing with such an open issue in Slovenia. But he is obviously one of those who will probably be most disappointed to leave Slovenia, and he will say, because you are no longer normal, because in children there are stories that should not be happening in some normal democratic country, and this is the end of 2018. In short, I will also be interested in why there has actually been a mass departure of professional staff from the treatment of children with congenital heart failure, why all of them, especially young ones or little younger ones, and especially not old doctors, have left this department so that this department is not even available anymore. I would also like to know what some of them would say when they set up a public health institution, a national institution for children's heart disease, whether they actually believed themselves or were saving their skin before the parliamentary elections. Above all, I will be interested in what is probably of interest to every citizen in the Republic of Slovenia who is more or less occasionally confronted with the health system and in particular with the prices of medicines and medical supplies. Not only has the previous commission of inquiry led by colleague Jelka Godec found out what abuses are taking place in the field of vein resistors – as someone said today, it is likely that every mandate will have to have one investigative commission, as not only this investigative commission – but also various media have found that individual materials in the field of health in Slovenia are twice, three times, and also five times overpaid. While in other comparable European countries the prices of these materials are bearable, we are charged with the people and the price of these materials in the sky for certain wallets. I will therefore be genuinely interested in identifying the potential political responsibility of the holders of public functions, in view of the suspension of the obligation to seek responsibility for the use and acquisition of materials. I will also be interested, given that I was present in the previous mandate, when in health care, we put 136 million in the rehabilitation of tertiary and secondary health organisations, namely hospitals, what happened to these 136 million. Why would I want to know? Because some already have problems in this mandate when, above all, the opposition introduces some kind of law, where the amount is 2, 5, 10, 20 million, and everyone exclaims, yes, there is no money. Here someone in the previous assembly of the National Assembly would easily press the 136 million key and probably those MPs who supported it would ask what happened to that money, whether the money went to the right, professional hands, or whether that money was the policy. And at least in view of the statements made by the current minister, who said publicly that there have been problems or that the 136 million have not even begun to solve the areas of hospital management, I would like to know where the other 35 million have gone for the waiting period, but I think that some money has gone into what this investigative commission is going to try to figure out, or perhaps even contradict some of the incorrect judgments of our Members and, above all, of the Slovenian lay public, what has been going on in this area. I think that each of you Members who read this material sees that there have been irregularities. But as stated in point 10, no one has ever responded to these acts criminally or otherwise. I think that we all have a political problem here together – whether we close our eyes or maybe, God forbid, who is still quietly attaching to such a operation or we have a problem because we have obviously not done enough as a legislative branch of government when adopting financial frameworks in the field of health or when adopting systemic or less systemic legislation to resolve these matters. The fact is that the main promoter of healthcare in Slovenia is every time a minister. In view of the fact that I am already a few mandates in the National Assembly in various functions, I think that the professional services would have assured me that there have never been so many urgent meetings of the Committee or extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly due to the issue or open questions in the field of health, where the names and surnames of the people who are supposed to be responsible have been covered by some eyes. I must say that I was appalled myself when, despite the glorious words of certain Members of the previous call, how acute the situation in Slovenian health care is, neither the first nor the second interpolation has been supported. And now they're waiting for a new savior in the image of the current minister to solve matters. Here I have a question which I have repeatedly raised with individual ministers: Are ministers able to manage their own portfolio or are people inside the department controlling the minister and the system? Here, too, I will be interested in how this correlation took place in previous mandates, when there was a minister who hoped to say something, what to do, or who were only ministers who were implementing certain policies. We all know that one minister in the past even resigned because he himself said that it was impossible for the problem of lobbying, especially corruption and clientism in health care, and he preferred to give an opportunity to another successor. If not another congratulations to that former minister for correct recognition that he himself would not be able to control this system, even though he came from a system called health care. Although, as colleague Jelka Godec said, we can only talk about suspicions, I have a big problem because just the previous government, the former largest government party has come to power with concepts such as “we will fight the path of corruption and clientism”. That is why I will be particularly interested when you talk to the investigative commission about who has spoken against corruption and clientism and, on the other hand, who has also done something to prevent corruption and clientism in the field of health. I will also be interested in what is enshrined in the Act of this Commission of Inquiry, in non-compliance with its own legislation. Once again, what helps us in the National Assembly to adopt legislation, if ministers themselves, with the help of their co-workers, do not respect the legal acts adopted by the National Assembly, or even more, do not respect the legal acts which they themselves prescribe in the form of regulations. Otherwise, I will go here for a minute outside this investigative commission, but I remember when I, I think, convened an urgent meeting of the Health Committee in 2015 due to the problem of satellite emergency centres or emergency medical services, as proposed by the current minister, that certain coalition MPs were worried about me, if you say what you are saying, everything will be great and all the deadlines in the regulations will be regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, the emergency centres are still not working as the minister herself wrote in the rules, we have problems with helicopter service, we have problems with satellite emergency centres and we have problems with dispatch centres. In short, what helps us with the best legislation or by law if the rulings do not stick to it, and in the end, they want to show that some profession is to blame for not sticking to it. So I am truly, respected and respected, interested in whether this commission of inquiry will find a number of answers that are not only written here in the commission of inquiry, but, above all, are being set up by people when they meet with an increasingly deteriorating health system in Slovenia. Here, to conclude, I will be particularly interested in how many of those words of political officials will come to light in the past when they say something, and obviously – and they will have to be dealt with by members of this investigative commission, including whether they have done anything to end clientism and corruption and to disregard the rule of law, or whether they themselves have been those who have supported clientism and corruption. In short, the suspicions that this commission of inquiry will have to face are more than enough. I hope that sooner or later we will also meet with the final report, where we will be able to talk about concrete evidence and not about whether or not it was or not, but we will be able to say that it was. And, above all, I hope that we will say as few times as possible, unfortunately, Slovenian patients were as they were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much. He has the word Vojko Starović, to prepare the Victory of Jelinčič Nobleni. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. These health situations that we are talking about, and we are saying in broad terms that they are still getting worse, are, in fact, now we can find out, unsatisfactory, but they are by no means catastrophic. This is also illustrated by the OECD observations, which put our health care at a comparatively high level. Of course, it is thanks to all those in health care who are dedicated to their work, and fortunately they are in the majority. However, changes are necessary, we all agree, especially if we want to preserve not only public health but also quality health care. The existing problems in the functioning of the health system are multifaceted, also due to the fact that we are getting older and need more health care for older years, and also for childbirth, even in children in the first year when they demand the most, this is prolonged due to objective things and so on. I don't think health care has adapted or adapted to this. These multi-layer problems, which appear, stem both from funding and from the management and management system of the institution, including from the specialisations previously identified, including in the training of personnel, acquisition, and also from irregularities in the procurement of material that has all the signs of corruption. In the coming year, we have thus witnessed the departure of highly qualified cardiologists, experts in narrow but highly sensitive fields of child cardiology and cardiosurgery in the UKC. Then the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease was established, and in this composition of the assembly we also decided on a fire-fighting action to enable foreign experts to work in our system, in our country. In this area is now the abolition of this institute and we are here where we are. Of course, it is mentioned, as I have been saying, that the proposal for an act to determine the parliamentary investigation that is ahead of us today must have been pushed forward. The request is legitimate and in place. It makes sense to identify and explore actual state-of-the-art situations in the field of public interest that may be the basis for changes in the system itself or where we, the National Assembly, are in the legislative and policy-making process. But we need to be careful about that. In addition to identifying political responsibilities, the proposal follows some other responsibilities. What are these, it is not clear, but we know that a parliamentary inquiry cannot and cannot identify other types of responsibilities other than political ones such as civil and criminal ones. That's why we have different rules. Sometimes we forget what a responsibility is. And when we talk about political responsibility, it's the ability to answer pressing problems. I would agree with all those who spoke, probably – I will not find this to be the case, but probably – the previous minister was not able to respond adequately to the emerging problems and the accumulation of health problems. Only if we talk about the political responsibility of the past is this for me – I asked how to say it domestically, is the correct expression – kicking a dead dog or a dead horse. It's not in that sense, but it's good about the directions. In the Alenka Bratušek Group, we agree that health care is one of those areas that are subject to corruption, even in the light of the interest groups of individuals and businesses that create enormous margins, abnormal margins in the area of the purchase of medical devices, embedded materials and equipment. And there must be something wrong here, but this is the area of two. But if we see as an investigative commission that something is wrong here, it's the direction of other authorities if we run into things ahead. And that's none of our business. That is why we will participate in this investigative commission to the best of our ability, while at the same time paying attention to the work of the Commission being carried out within the framework of the Constitution and with the legal powers conferred on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The next public debater is not in the hall, so Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! Beyond this partial pathetic, which is an integral part of the investigation framework, I will say that I am first pleased that we have somehow come to the point that a million or a million 700 in Slovenia is a lot of money. Probably cost us about that much so far, wages, basic ratings, a little interest account, John Janez Janša, a little less Tanko, noble, Pahor cost us a little more, Lois Peterle, because he's in Brussels, and he's spending a lot more. If we're talking about pennies. I'm glad, you know, I really like to talk about money. Now there's another story. I'm going to repeat something very personal, which I also said at my mother's work-body session, when these hearts, as Jani would say, were busy. When I was 7 years old for 10 months and 19 days, I had a brother, the only kid I had. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's not that funny, mate. He was born with quite a deformity of the foot. In that maternity ward, someone made a professional mistake. When the baby stabilizes, there at one week, we should send it to the orthopaedic UKC in Ljubljana and operate, it was not until a month later. They said it was their parents' fault because they wouldn't let it, which was one big fat lie. That's not why I'm talking. I'm talking about because when I was a kid, I had all the trouble for my parents, my family, that I don't even talk about some of my rural grandmothers, because sometimes when you were born in a village like this, you were, I apologize for the expression, the different expression, the name for the wings, the ridicule, up and down. Fortunately, Slovenian medicine has done its job well. Why am I bringing this up? Because maybe in this light I'm judging this whole heart story differently. Every year we have 90 to 110 of these cases, we have so many and so many parents, who can adopt, and this problem turns out to be, we have relatives, friends, up and down. The last thing a politician can do is make these people feel pain. Here must be our maturity, regardless of which customer someone comes from, regardless of what personal rhetoric someone is speaking or not. Frankly, if we sit together with Jelko, colleague Lisec, Jani and I, we will write a report by Saturday at 3:00 p.m. We know the story, we know what happened, and we know this part of political responsibility. On a practical level, I have a problem, which Jani also expressed, how to place investigators. There's probably gonna be a problem getting people. We will probably have to educate those who will participate in the commission very much to at least explore hearts from children's cardio, from children's intensity to distinguish from someone who can be a good international heart surgeon, but not a narrow child heart surgeon. In the background of this story more than a penny – you know, if we compare it a little bit with a football, the one with so much, I'll just say, egg, metaphorically, cut into 20 grams of heart, is a virtuoso. It's a top-notch virtuoso. That's if you want, Paganini, burner. And basically, this is where he came down, you know. If we compare it to Maribor, who will play in the first character, who will have such a minute, and we know it basically. Another story, as far as we go on this committee, is the whole picture — but I'm afraid we're running out of time. You know, I don't know, ever since I got burned for health care, I've been doing this all day long, and I probably would need to have 24 extra hours left, which, as I said before, I'd have, like, 15 to 20 seats in the health department and analyzed and analyzed their data. In this light, I confess to Jelka and the entire team that was working to make a very good investigator and that it was actually necessary. I'm asking the question here because we're going to have to choose some case studies to deal with. We won't be able to deal with everything. That's where you processed the venous cords. What's going to fall out here now? Here, too, we will have to be mature to take the cases that are, I will say, excruciating, but not cases that are one, the other, the third or I do not know which political options correspond to. Also to write in general who is politically responsible for the state of health – because we can sit here for a weekend too. We now – except, I think, two exceptions, were ministerial ministers, ministers, doctors, doctors or this backend. But we probably have a quarter of a century's experience that somehow crows won't get their eyes out. There is also a great deal of truth in what Jani said about the Medical Chamber. But you know, it's like politics here, we're not all the same here. It's not some young doctor or doctor who's been chasing this story for years. Although I am now coming from the Left, I will say that the story here is quite similar to Slovenian trade unions. There we also had some eternal ones or we still have which, I hope personally, are part of the problem as part of the solution. Those who will work on this committee, including those who have already worked in a similar way – now for six months no one has threatened me with death, now this will start to happen again to all of us. We live in such a society, and this is the kind of society that this Parliament has created. When I say this honestly, then people look at you like the Duck has a dream or that he's had a drink. Far from it. That's what it is. That's three billion and a half interests, the chamber burned them down, and there'll be a little more next year. It seems to me that we need to be aware of this that you are also somehow proposing to Members of the Group who know how to live with it. After all, you shouldn't burden your family, you know. You're gonna sit in those sessions, you're gonna be threatened with whoever's gonna kill you somewhere, then you come through the door at home, and then you're supposed to laugh. All of this, we, the ones who are seriously working, are working for this salary, and for this menzo that many are reading to us, you're reading. What's gonna be, what's gonna be, the only thing that bothers me here, is some kind of duality. Probably if Levi had a longer beard, we'd be partial to each other. For the fifth year in politics as a good apprentice I can say that the problem of Slovenian politics is the manko of autoreflexion. And the eternal ZSMS who brought us where we are. But I don't know if this committee's gonna deal with it. In fact, we have a lot of work ahead of us, and I'm looking forward to it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the representative of the proposalr will be given the floor. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you, Dr. Duck, for ending up saying he's happy to do this job, because I've been getting a little panicky in the middle of it, not panic, fear of finding problems or things, how not to do something or how far we say it will be difficult, it won't be possible, it will be there, it will be that. So I believe that with the colleagues who announced themselves today – I have to say that I didn't know, and I don't even know now who thinks in the commission of inquiry, I wasn't interested – things are done in the direction we all want. For those of you who think a colleague has exaggerated threats and so on, he has not exaggerated, it has been a daily life for some Members and we have become accustomed to living with it, as he says. And we're probably gonna have to keep doing this, too, but it's gonna be behind us all the time. Why is this gonna be after us all the time? Because I personally do not agree to this in terms of what has been said, we will discover political responsibility and we will not be interested in the other. Personally as a citizen If I know something or have this duty, I will say, even if it is a violation of the Constitution down, and of human rights. [[…]] Some say, "Yes, look, this can only be a political responsibility, but the rest I don't care about doing what anyone wants to do." And you keep your mouth shut. If you listened to Dr. Jaklič, he said quite well: “Fear the one who is silent when he knows that human rights have been violated.” Let us also fear those who remain silent when they know of any other violation. In the public interest, it is certainly in order to determine who the individuals responsible for irregularities are, such and different, and if we go to an investigative commission, for procurement irregularities and also why child cardiology has not been resolved in the past and why we should have listened to various media bombings between one and the other in the previous term or in the previous years, and perhaps now, and why things have not been resolved as they should in the sense that we should no longer frighten the parents and all those involved. Although I'm still saying that we don't scare them, and that when we open questions, we should not, and should not, lubricate the reputation of a medical profession or those who do good work every day, who work hard, who say we can't anymore and we can't watch what they do to us in public health, we just want to work, we want to do good, but the system itself – if you're reading these responses to the prime minister and the secondary and so on, it just doesn't work anymore. Those with their finger should also point to those who have their reputation. That is why I believe that the new Commission of Inquiry will maintain the reputation of doctors, those who do well, and eliminate those who have participated or are involved in unscrupulous business. And I'm not just talking right now – maybe when I say doctors, I'm talking about the whole thing, not just the doctor as a doctor, but from all those responsible forward, including the directors, the ministers and so on. So I think it will. However, I agree with that and I also appeal to all those who will be on the investigative committee, as my colleague has said, to be deepened. I wouldn't say that we have to learn now how to surgically or professionally solve things, but at least so much to get educated that you will know what surgery is, what cardiology is, who is a child's heart surgeon, who is a child's heart cardiologist, and so on, that it's not the same as if you're looking at a cardiologist, you or someone who's just been born or born. At least that's what you're expected to do, and you're going to cooperate constructively and not then say yes, but we haven't investigated it, and that's not good, it wasn't good. If you are a member, you have every opportunity to propose things, who as witnesses, which material to look at, what area to look at and so on. However, I agree, at least in the work – well, child cardiology is a particular feature, it is known exactly what frameworks it is in, when the purchases are written widely, and also written for this reason, which was already mentioned today. A lot of things can happen, but I think we need to look at those exciting things that also, we can say, have cost taxpayers too much. What's that too much? We have European standards, we have European prices, we can take a quick look at these things. I'd just say this, there was a lot of talk about NISB, a million 800, whether it's a lot of money or not. It's all too much if you go into something where the result is nothing. For the reasons that are here, at least they indicate themselves, it's all too much. So I would say, even if there was minimal money, but if there was a million 800 large or not, it seems to me too much for something if we know that UKC Ljubljana gets about so much or so more, two million for the children's cardiology programme, but NISB gets for nothing. To all those who will participate in the commission of inquiry, I lay therefore on my heart and soul, that you may learn from the beginning, and not think that you know all things. To be taught professionally, I say, not in terms of how certain small children's operations have been performed. I will try to act, and I will try to stop attempts at any measure of power, egos, as has been said, or professional debates about whether there has been a tragic event because no one has anything – we will try to avoid it in the majority. For opening up old wounds to parents is unethical or bad. This is a slippery area, I agree, and once again, I believe that we are all mature enough to try to stop these things in a defolk or base ourselves. However, as far as systemic solutions are concerned, systemic warnings or warnings about the management of matters on the part of responsible public officials, I do not think that any of the Members will have a problem in teaching them how to organize matters in Slovenian hospitals and Slovenian health care. I wish all good things to the Commission of Inquiry to come to conclusions that will be important both for legislative changes and for the search for responsibility in the Slovenian healthcare system.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. If he would also like to discuss the representative of the proposaler Jelka Godec, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. I'm asking you to sign up. Everyone has five minutes. Four panellists have been reported. The first one has the word mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u50	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! I have one suggestion – that due to the clarity of our health relations, we should make clear the use of the terms of the insurer, the insurance company and the contractor. In doing so, I would also like to stress one particular point: the importance of the insurance undertaking, which should also start to monitor the quality of services, not that it does not care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u51	[[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, just a minute. Look, I don't know how it works if the others checked in. [[advertising from the hall]] We can't. You're not registered. I'm sorry. Mag. Andrei Reich, have you finished? Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. I will personally support this investigative committee, whose content is not only child cardiology, as we have discussed today, but also illegal and illegal procurement of medical equipment and medical material. That was much less said today, but I also want to say it to everyone. The request for the appointment of this parliamentary commission of inquiry made eleven observations, which the members of the Commission will jointly try to identify. I would most like to point out that, as a citizen, even as a person, I am actually interested in these different political responsibilities of the current and former public function holders, especially why there has been such a massive departure of professional staff from the field of treatment abroad. Although I believe that it is not the main cause of money either, but that each organisation has a very important relationship and organisational climate in each company. We'll see what the investigation finds out. We are also, indeed, all of us, interested in the usefulness of establishing a public health institution, the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases. While I believe that this was the only possible solution in that current situation, we will see what the investigation will show. One of the questions is why foreign experts have not trained domestic surgeons as envisaged. Then also the responsibility of those involved in the purchase of medical equipment and medical material. I think that the issues are really the ones that the Commission really needs to address. As he was in the debates, I think that Mr Lisco, including the fact that the SMC and the Minister have done nothing to reduce corruption – however, I think the Minister has done something to reduce the possibility of corruption. As the Supervisor register was established, an Intravisioner database was set up to provide information on the prices of medicines and medical devices. Public joint orders of medicinal products and medical devices have therefore been launched, so that I believe something has been done in this mandate. However, I have repeatedly wondered why, in the field of health, there have been so many exchanges of different ministers in previous mandates. I have not always followed politics closely, but I think there have been the most exchanges at the Ministry of Health. If I am to be a member of this Commission – because I am also a member of the Health Commission – I will definitely be actively involved and I will also become more involved in matters, as in all others, I will also be objective. So far, I have not been involved in anything like this, I have been following all things until I entered politics through the media, and I have also been shocked by one of the findings of the previous commission of inquiry on venous resistors, when it was shown that some small heart centre, which is very professional, I can say this from my own experience, is Medico, buying blood support much cheaper than UKC Ljubljana and Maribor, for example. This seemed unacceptable to me at the time as a citizen. I was not a politician at the time. So I believe in the good and objective work of this commission, although some say that I am too naive for politics, but I believe in good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Yes, please, but let's be procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! When you opened up the opportunity to apply for a debate, I pressed the button and then I realized it wasn't registered. During the course of this application, I also said that the device was not working, so that it could not register me either. So please, if you can, given that there's still a lot of time at your disposal, allow me these five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We will give you, Mr Bevk, even though the professional services have warned me that the devices were technically flawless. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Sometimes you push too many times and you confuse them a little. When I listened to this, I remembered some data that went over my head in 2014, from this old Supervisor, about procurement in public health, 5.7 billion, 7 years, 9 companies. At that time, I happened to meet two former FDV colleagues in the hallway, one became the leader of the parliamentary group then the largest coalition party, and the gentleman was the president of the National Assembly, and I asked them, well, what are we going to do about it. And they looked at me a little bit in amazement, and I said to myself, "Write home is gone," and he passed one term in the middle, I'm sorry. If I touch the former district minister – that we won't now, someone said we were kicking a dead horse – the problem with Mrs. Milojka was that soon her friends set her up somehow. And then, of course, when everyone's boxing you from all sides, somehow you're running into an angle and you're going into the state of some turtle. Here was basically Mr Cerar's responsibility, if we're serious about talking, and these last ones of his toying around heart surgery didn't exactly finish him off on your own. [[…]] Jani spoke earlier about the professional apparatus, the ministers, the MPs. We also have serious professional apparatus in the back. A lot of times half in a joke, I really say that if you're an expert or an expert in the Levitical Group, you almost have to have a doctorate, and you're such a good doctorate, you're not prescribed. However, I hope that if we are to do this seriously, we will also be provided with a professional investigator apparatus that we will not choose on a friendly or client key. When the United Left came to the National Assembly, we did not do so at the start, and we almost fell apart because someone thought he was going to bring someone. Given the problem that we have in health care and in some additional resources, it would be reasonable to consider, at some budgetary rebalancing, a substantial strengthening of our non-party-related research department in Parliament. I've said this a number of times, this is my first serious question when I come to foreign parliaments: how do you have your research unit organized? But there are two facts, as Jelka said, that one will have to learn a lot more. We trained our burners, pagans for these operations, that's not true that we didn't. But we'll probably have to figure out what we're going to focus on if I paraphrase Jani. It's probably not bad if we have a training seminar at the Department of Health Insurance first. It probably won't be wrong to go to the National Institute of Public Health, you know. I have said many times, my more professional deformity, it seems to me that two mandates back, in the English Parliament – they are also doing something smart on the other hand, because they are one of the oldest parliamentary democracies – the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment and Space at the beginning of the mandate were taken to 14-day education, that people in fact politicians do not have this freedom or this irresponsibleness to get acquainted with the things we deal with as laymen. [[…]] After all, we are intelligent, we are educated, we are curious, and in this capacity, I hope that this commission will indeed be an investigator, because for the 30th birthday of this country, I would like to finally know how we are going to grab this health care by the horns, if I say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, I said I'd give you my word, even though it was your fault, I don't know what's gonna happen to the computer. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u58	Presidents, if we are to make exceptions now, then we must always make exceptions. Then it's over, you know. People press once, twice, shut down, and then they can't see that they're off, and then they're not reported. I would rather suggest you make another run for those new Members, and show them once again how to apply. But we can't make an exception now, because then everyone can raise their hand and say that his device doesn't work. The devices worked, but someone pushed too hard, and they also checked out of the system. If we're gonna make an exception today, then we always have to. No one can be privileged to do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I agree with your proposal. I'm sorry, Mr. Bevk. Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I was at that opening meeting here at the National Assembly for New Members in this mandate, so I know how to deal with these devices. But it has also been in the past, I know from my practice, but also now that you have broken up many times if someone has warned that the device is not working, and this is no exception. So I do not agree with my colleague that this is a precedent that will affect the future work of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much. As the last word, the representative of the proposaler Jelka Godec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u62	One point has also been pointed out now, and earlier in the debate itself. What I have not talked about before is the work itself, the organisational work of parliamentary investigative commissions. One thing is that the law of certain things is very impossible, including this – it was a talk about how to refer, when to refer to these sessions, because you have to call a meeting very quickly, because you need a decision to investigate ahead for the court and so on, and you can't, because there are already two or three committees called. In the previous reference, we presidents, at least I know myself, but I also, I think, Dr Logar, have made quite a few suggestions on how things could change, I'm afraid they are not. I am afraid that there will be the same problems of conclusion again, because of other committees, you will not be able to convene a meeting immediately, because the investigative committee meeting sometimes needs to be convened from today to tomorrow, because you need, I say again, a decision or agreement of the members for further work, and it is not easy. In addition, it appeared that the meetings of the National Assembly had already been convened after the hearing of the Commission of Inquiry. We had, say, invited witnesses, doctors who took their time off, and then a meeting of the National Assembly is convened, and the president says, yes, the commission of inquiry will not have a meeting. I now appeal to the President of the National Assembly in advance here and, of course, to all the fact that you are right here, that this is no longer happening, because then it casts a bad light on the work of the entire Parliament. I agree that the Commission of Inquiry will have to have some professional support, which some of them have in the National Assembly, and of course there is also the possibility of external expertise. But I tell you right now, in the field of health it is very difficult to get this from several perspectives, one is expertise, one is that they are afraid, and the third is, of course, “but I will not sue my colleagues”. So here are things, I have to say, very, um – you will have to be very innovative if you want, or very much looking. I know that these were precisely the reasons in the previous reference, “I would, but I will not sue a colleague; I cannot; I am; I, ” most of all, all excuses. [[…]] Finally, I have to say that I spent three months educating myself, as my friend Duck said, and really professionally to the last point, if I woke up at midnight, I'd know which stent should ever have to be inserted. I also appeal to members in advance that they will have a lot of education to themselves, but above all, as has been said, many will have to read by the very beginning. First of all, an international report on child cardiology. That's the first one. It's best if you read in English, not translation. Yeah. Then some KPK report, what professional supervision or all of this chronology to look at, the Court of Auditors, read to the fullest extent, not only what is written here. Even when the Court of Auditors determined the usefulness of managing expensive medical equipment at the Ministry. I suggest you read this in advance, take time to do all the work you say you have in the National Assembly. So I'm going to say, we're not going to mix the fog for a month now, but we're going to go somewhere to educate ourselves, because one of us is going to pull something out of it, and the other is just going to go somewhere, and in the end, the same questions are going to be asked by the investigator. However, if you have ever listened to statements by the former director of the insurance company and the current minister of the current director of the insurance company: "We only pay, we only pay and we don't care about the other." It's sad, but it's true. “We have control, but look, if the hospital tells us that this program costs 3,000 euros, it costs 3,000 euros.” And here too – perhaps I agree when he said to his colleague that insurance companies should also be looked at, yes, of course they should be, but the insurance company has a marriage, so it's not pay and it's not the supervisory authority and it doesn't care. So, all the suggestions are welcome, and once again, we're not going to mix the fog too long, and then things are going to go their way and we're actually going to be trying to do something for four years. I'd rather see you read to yourself Members in advance, and then we'll say some more at the sessions themselves or whatever else we need to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you, proposer. This concludes the debate. On the basis of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry, so I note that the National Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry into the implementation of the programme of child cardiology and of illegal and illegal purchases of medical equipment and medical material at secondary and tertiary levels of health activity in the Republic of Slovenia with a view to drawing up proposals to amend the legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction and to establish and assess the actual state of play to determine the political and other responsibilities of public officials in health institutions at secondary and tertiary level in the Republic of Slovenia. The contents of the parliamentary inquiry request are defined in the record of the request of 18 December 2018 and in the act setting out the parliamentary investigation of 18 December 2018 which you received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it as soon as possible to the Council. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. INDUSTRY AND ENTITARIAN FINANCING, FINANCING ACT ON THE DEFINITIVE INVESTIGATION OF THE FINANCING OF THE ENTITIES OF THE POLITICAL RESPONSES OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE OF THE LAW AND PHYSICAL PERSONS AND FOR THE FINANCING AND ASSESSMENT OF THE ACTIVITY OF THE POLITICAL RESISTANCE OF THE CARRIAGE OF THE PUBLIC FINANCING FINANCING FINANCING FINANCING On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 51 Members and Members with their first signed Branet Golubović submitted a request for the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Robert Pavšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let us leave the content for a few seconds on the side and ask what today’s day looks like from outside for those who accompany us. First, one commission of inquiry is formed here, then set up by us, and in the spirit of the third consensus, we all set up one more together, and we have a beautiful day. Well, no matter what, we have in common the fact that we want to once, and this desire to really feel, to cut the Gordy knot of political inactivity or inference, and at the same time step one step back and one step forward. And not to keep us in place, but to set the starting point. We've already processed one parliamentary investigation, the other just now, and one we've been predicting. So today is the Thursday of the investigation of political responsibility. Whether this Thursday will be black, like the black Fridays a few weeks ago, or bright, depends on what our future and results will bring. The Group of Members and Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, the Social Democrats, the Modern Centre Parties, the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons and the Alenka Bratušek Party have made a request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine and assess several acts in public. Our purpose is not to prejudge the findings, but to determine the actual situation. The Commission will first identify the actual state of political responsibility of public function holders due to the suspicion of having an impact on the alleged money laundering at the New Maribor Credit Bank by foreign nationals and associated legal and natural persons. The second topic will be the identification and assessment of the actual state of play to determine the political responsibilities of public function holders due to the suspicion of unlawful financing by the political party of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the suspicion of the operation of media publishers owned by this political party and its officials and members and associated legal and natural persons with a view to the illegal financing of the electoral campaign for early elections in the National Assembly this summer. The potential outcome of the Commission of Inquiry will, in the light of the results, be a possible amendment to the legislation governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, the financing of political parties, the financing of the electoral campaign, the establishment and the management of media broadcasters and the financing of the issuance and operation of the media during the electoral campaign. The parliamentary investigation will be in line with the conclusions adopted by the State Assembly at its 65th emergency meeting on 18 May this year, when the final report on the parliamentary investigation of alleged money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and financing of the activities of foreign intelligence and security services in Nova Ljubljanska Banka and the alleged money laundering in Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor continued the investigation in the case of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, as money laundering with the prevalence, speed and adaptability of the crime that threatens the stability and functioning of financial institutions is detrimental to the stability and reputation of the financial sector of the State. At the same time, the investigation is also an important challenge for the country, as the perceived actions undermine confidence in the functioning of political parties, authorities and state authorities, as well as confidence in the democratically elected or designated authorities and institutions of the country. In the case of NKBM, the Commission of Inquiry examined the suspicions of money laundering mainly by Italian criminal associations, as a number of Italian citizens associated with mafia associations opened transaction accounts in that bank, where remittances were followed very quickly by cash withdrawals. It's the so-called Italian money laundering typology. In 2013 and 2014, NKBM carried out a number of reorganisations and staff replacements following the appointment of the Director of Administration Aleš Hauca, possibly also politically motivated, which had a significant impact on the operation of the bank and caused a risk of money laundering. This has been used mainly by foreign citizens associated with criminal associations, and the Commission has also come across suspicions of money laundering by Slovenian citizens, even by employees in the bank. As part of the parliamentary investigation in NKBM, the investigating commission also found the case of Dijana Djudžić investigating how NKBM followed Bank of Slovenia's corrective action or the order of Bank of Slovenia following supervision at the bank in 2014. The Commission of Inquiry found that the so-called Italian typology also appeared in the case of this citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why are the recent findings regarding Djudić important? As it entered into a loan agreement with one of the political parties on the basis of which it loaned EUR 450 000 to the SDS party to finance its activities. The loan was secured with a 44.16 % share held by this political party in the company Nova okroži publishing. In the loan agreement, there was a clause that by the time the loan was paid, it could be repaid by converting the loan into that share in the company. The SDS has therefore concluded a contract with the person for whom the Commission of Inquiry has found that its business reflects the suspicions of offences of money laundering, fictitious business, tax evasion and tax evasion, and the destruction and counterfeiting of business documents. Djudžić was supposed to act as part of a well-organised association that through straw companies opened bank accounts through which cash flows of unknown origin were directed and were generally raised in cash. On the basis of the documentation, the Commission of Inquiry found that Djudžić had at least one use of a tax spinner and avoided the payment of the dedevee and, in the other case, remained a tax debtor. All of these are indications of the way in which tax evasion, fictitious transactions, the concealment of money resources and the use of straw companies and accounts with which these transactions can be carried out. In addition, in this case, the suspicions of unlawful financing by a political party are raised. In the pre-audit inquiry, the Court of Auditors identified the signs of the offence in the SDS loan and submitted an indictment to the Court. In 2013 and 2014, the National Assembly, due to warnings from Greece, a group of countries against corruption in the world of Europe, adopted solutions for greater transparency in the financing of political parties and their independence. The fact is that political parties are recipients of public funds and the increase in the cost of funding electoral campaigns makes them increasingly dependent on private financing, which could increase risks in the form of purchasing political influence. Therefore, the National Assembly has prohibited loans from entities other than financial institutions by law and has limited the loans of natural persons to ten times the average monthly salary and banned financing from abroad. With regard to the indication of illegal financing, it is worth noting that the Court of Auditors has tabled another incriminating proposal against this political party. A loan of EUR 60,000 was obtained by the SDS from a legal person who is not a bank or a borrower, which the law also does not allow. It was a loan to the legal person of the New Horizon publishing company rented by the SDS at the end of summer 2017, just before the loan of Djudžićeva, whose loan was secured by the flag of the ownership share of SDS in this legal person. In doing so, it should be noted that the SDS is co-owner of this legal person. The law provides that political parties can only borrow money from banks, lenders and natural persons and that the legal person mentioned was none of this, and in this case the amount was 4 times higher than the amount allowed. We would like to point out that donors can buy access to decision-making in the legislative and executive branches by funding political parties and electoral campaigns, so the question is how to prevent the illegal financing of political parties and electoral campaigns and to establish control over this is crucial. It is crucial if we are to prevent inappropriate influence on the political processes and processes of policy-making or decision-making in the legislative and executive branches of government. Illegal political funding contributes to the loss of credibility of political parties and elected democratic governments, as it creates the impression that politicians are buying and the scandals that stem from it affect public confidence and erosion of participation in elections. We are convinced that the political parties we have elected in the current Assembly call, in accordance with the legislation adopted in 2013 and 2014, are obliged to ensure the transparency of our funding and to investigate and to dissuade any suspicion that possible illegal financing has tried to buy an impact on our functioning and independence in our decision-making. We therefore believe that it is right for the National Assembly, in addition to the supervision carried out by the Court of Auditors in this case, to carry out parliamentary supervision, even though the parliamentary inquiry in public is mainly regarded as an institution of control aimed at the opposition and control of the Government and its political and administrative activities. For these reasons, the subject of a parliamentary investigation at this stage is focused solely on the suspicions of the above mentioned irregularities or illegality, and we promise that the subject of the investigation will be expanded as soon as the suspicions of illegal financing are presented, which will be supported by evidence. Of course, we will be most pleased if all indications and suspicions prove unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you, proposer. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and as the first to have the word mag. Marko Koprivc on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The key objective of the proposed parliamentary investigation is to investigate the alleged multiple illegal financing of a political party. The purpose of the investigation is not only to determine how a large-scale money laundering of suspicious origin occurred in one of the state banks, this is certainly something that should be investigated and resolved by the competent authorities, and the purpose of the investigation is also to determine whether and how part of the money was spilled to one political party. That is why the parliamentary investigation, which is determined by this proposal for an act, is largely a continuation of the past and not a complete part of the investigative commission from the previous term. In short, the purpose of the proposed parliamentary investigation is to find out what is wrong with our system, allowing for suspicious financing of political parties who walk on or through the law, when they accept money of suspicious origin, which at the top of everything comes from abroad, whether Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary or any other country. The current Law on Political Parties has since banned the financing of political parties and election campaigns from abroad. Such provisions are also known by other countries and have not changed by their membership in the European Union. Because if you borrow money, you have to pay it back, one way or another. If anyone borrows the money, they'll expect a refund. If you give money, you expect something in return. You take money from a stranger, you owe a stranger. Very simple logic. In order to prevent such situations, the law prohibits the financing of political parties from abroad. Despite this ten - year ban, this law clearly violates. It is even more worrying that it does not appear that the competent authorities would take appropriate action in this regard. The presence of capital of suspicious and foreign origin in sources of funding poses a serious risk to the sovereignty and independence and also to the security of the State. There are too many serious suspicions to be left unsuspected and unsuspected, so it requires this parliamentary investigation. A respected and respected so-called loan affair with the illegal financing of the SDS party has not yet been fully investigated. The report of the Commission of Inquiry referred to in the previous mandate shows that this topic must be further highlighted, in particular in the light of serious suspicions that money, even if returned, may come from illegal activities. This would increase the severity of the infringement, as funding for illegal transactions or money laundering would be added to foreign funding. Therefore, we do not see any alternative to continuing the investigation of illegal transactions in the New Credit Bank Maribor, in which the only public name is Mrs Dijana Djudžić. In view of the extent of the suspicions of illegality, it is certainly justified to initiate an investigation by checking transactions with foreign nationals, foreign nationals and related persons in NKBM. This requires public interest, for the first time since NKBM was public-owned during the affair, secondly because of the suspicions of large-scale crimes of an international character, and thirdly because the consequences of such and similar crimes could threaten even the security and sovereignty of our country. A donor or a lender, especially when it comes to large financial resources, can buy access to decision-making through a donation or loan. If the policy is in charge or financially dependent on a donor, the expectation returned the service logically. That is why the laws in force require political parties to finance themselves transparently, not to accept money from legal persons or foreigners, and to rent their loans only from banks and other financial institutions. The existence of these rules has its serious reasons, and the suspicion of violations of these rules is a serious matter that needs to be investigated. However, it is particularly important to respond when such violations are repeated and if the same party violates the law in different ways. Here, respected and respected, it is not only the affair of Djudžić, but also the extensive financing of various media owned by the Slovenian Democratic Party and associated natural and legal persons. Not only do these media link strong political bias, the spread of unrealistics and hatred, as is evident from the accompanying materials, but their red thread is also suspicious funding. A few years ago, companies for the issuance of free-of-charges opened up, allowing SDS parties to provide a propaganda platform for the spread of non-truths and the defamation of political opponents, and after the elections either shut down or ended up in the hands of people with no assets and the creditors and debts were not paid. It continued with new media projects, among which Nova24TV is the most popular. In this case, we can for some time observe a suspicious way of financing, including large deposits and loans by Hungarian citizens and registered companies with clear links to the Orban Authority there. In so doing, the fact that non-refundable loans are being repaid through conversions into equity shares assessed substantially above market value will be a key factor. This avoids paying taxes, and even more importantly, it is important that they are indirectly disposed of by those who have given the loans and that they have not received the money back. Who paid to cover such losses? What services did he expect or yet expect? Public interest requires that this be investigated. Honourable Members, if I touch on the scope of the investigation and its relationship to other forms of investigation for a moment, as discussed in the previous investigation. We understand that the parliamentary investigation is not a criminal procedure. It is also clear to us that the investigation must not exceed the constitutional limits outlined. We are convinced that the Commission of Inquiry, following its current practice, will be able to respect the current constitutional order and remain within its remit. We are also confident and expect that, if she discovers evidence of criminal offences, she will hand the evidence over to the competent authorities and rightly expect them to be investigated and prosecuted, for that is in the public interest. Therefore, we expect the Commission of Inquiry, when appointed, to come up with its mandate with all seriousness, to use the broad powers given to it responsibly to investigate the nature of suspicious financing and possible political responsibility, including proposals to upgrade legislation to ensure transparent financing for political parties without suspicion of dependence on foreign and suspicious capital. We will actively participate in this investigation in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u68	Your Honor! In the Modern Centre Party, we also supported the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry because we have dealt with this part of the case in the previous term. Therefore, as co-proposers, we have also proposed to the first-signed applicants of the commission of inquiry to include in the subject of the investigation the decisions already adopted by the National Assembly which speak of certain findings and, above all, to recommend to the National Assembly why it is appropriate to continue such a parliamentary inquiry. The parliamentary inquiry – given that we are only talking about it today practically all day – of course has its own frameworks and borders. We realize that in reality it is most ungrateful when we investigate ourselves. However, those who cannot do so and who cannot look at themselves and clean up and clean up before their home threshold can, of course, do nothing else. The greatest observation that actually occurs with this commission of inquiry is very simple. Why just one political party? Why is it just an SDS client? The answer is very simple and simple. Because only this party received three different bases to be found in this parliamentary investigation. One is the Court of Auditors’ report, which states that there has been a breach, the other is the OSCE report, which also concludes in its recommendations and conclusions that there have been anomalies, and the third is the findings of the previous Commission of Inquiry. However, in order to avoid misunderstandings, the Modern Centre Party, which will participate in this investigative committee, will at its first meeting, when it meets, propose a decision to invite the Court of Auditors to inform the National Assembly and the Investigative Commission whether any other political party has anything, any irregularities with funding, such as that mentioned in this investigative commission. If the Court of Auditors finds anything similar, the subject matter of the investigation will, of course, be extended and proposed to the National Assembly immediately. So much to avoid thinking, why not explore others. Otherwise, I am sure that, at the very beginning of this commission of inquiry, there was already a lot of talk, and I am not in favour of repeating certain sentences, especially in order to get the work started as soon as possible. We will gladly do part of our mission with all the other members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next position will be presented by Mrs Nataša Sukič on behalf of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Respected and respected! By limiting the impact of capital on politics in Slovenia, we have always had problems, but unfortunately also rich experience. The consequences of such influences have been underestimated by all past governments. This is also evidenced by the cumbersome legislation which provides for prohibited forms of financing for political parties, but what if it does not allow effective sanctioning of problems or infringements. Despite a number of affairs, interestingly, the arrangements for financing political parties have not changed excessively. More recently, it has become more liberal or has been further prevented from sanctioning illegal financing with amendments. The Political Parties Act, adopted in 1994, was clear. It has determined that the acquisition of a client’s funds from contributions from foreign private individuals, natural and legal persons, from the proceeds of the client’s property from abroad, from gifts from abroad or from any other acquisition of funds or the management of services for a foreign client is prohibited. For infringements of this provision, the law also provided for sanctions. The specific provision on financing from abroad has not changed significantly to date, but changes have somehow lost the legal basis for sanctioning. First of all, the question arises who is primarily responsible for the fact that legislation and control over the non-transparent and illegal financing of customers and electoral campaigns do not come up with more and more innovative ways and more complex financial flows. For the epilogue of all past revealed affairs is practically the same: nothing has happened. The only case of illegal financing of the electoral campaign – which was not yet from abroad – which was dealt with in court is the financing of the SLS electoral campaign by then State Lek in 1992. Dragonja's method was eventually forgiven. For example, when the United List of Social Democrats was made public in 2001 that the debate did not revolve around the fact that disputed financing had to be effectively sanctioned through free workshops for members, but that the regime which completely prohibits financing from abroad was non-lifelike and that foreign funding should even be liberalised. As regards illegal practices in financing parties and electoral campaigns, the most experience is certainly the Slovenian Democratic Party. The first related affair with funding was resounded in public in 2000. The Ministry of Economy, led by Andrej Bajuk, has ordered computers from Iskra for more than 100 million tolls of computer equipment and overpaid it. The price difference was due to the fact that the company then concluded a fictitious business with the other two companies and then one of them participated in the SDS pre-election campaign. Even the 2008 elections did not pass without an affair. The main actor was again SDS, which was a better electoral result trying to secure via the free online Express and the Slovenian weekly. As soon as the money came from abroad before the electoral campaign to finance the affair, they miraculously went out after the freemen's election. This also led to the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry, which found that it was illegal funding. It also found that the legislation governing the financing of political parties and the financing of electoral campaigns was lacking. But it happened again. While the legislation remains unchanged, the scope of legislation by the SDS is increasing. However, the funds that flow across the foreign-party relationship are increasingly higher. It is clear that in financing the party and the electoral campaign something stinks, it has been clear since Slovenia was overrun by the cry of anti-refugee and extremely hateful content. She was flooded before the campaign started. That via media owned or led by the SDS in an electoral campaign and the party is channeling money from Hungary, we have repeatedly warned in Levica before the elections. On specific questions to the Government at the time, Comrade Trček was given the answers that there were no reasons to impose any diplomatic measures on Hungary to regulate the financing of the parties by law, that the Government had no jurisdiction and so on. In short, it's nothing again. The underestimation of the impact and intrusion of foreign capital is too dangerous to be without a response. To this day, no government has apparently been prepared to do so. It's about time we did this once and for all. We are not talking about the undetected work of volunteers, false posters or poor reports, we are talking about from Orbana Hungary a funded propaganda machine, suspected money laundering, illegal business and involvement in Slovenia's internal policy. The dictatorial leader of human rights, the abolition of independent public media and the beating of all democratic standards subjugates the whole country's own interests, in any way wants to gain support from at least other countries, in this case Slovenia. Janša and Orban have a comparable political pedigree. Political history and the chosen methods of action of both can be described very easily, the objective justifies the means. The SDS is, of course, the takeover of power irrespective of everything and with all available resources. The spread of hatred, the illegal financing of parties and electoral campaigns, the assets of unexplained origin, manipulation and lies, is just one of the methods of the SDS propaganda apparatus supported by a network of media and foreign and domestic companies that ensure the flow of funds from the Republic of Serbia to Viktor Orban himself. The dictator who, like Janša, warns against the apocalypse caused by refugees, migrants and other minorities. While by pointing his finger at all minorities he creates a smoke screen for which he spreads his hunters to all times of the state and society, he shuts down independent media, makes it impossible for the opposition to function and tries to enslave its own people. A dictator who says in a single wave that refugees are threatening the future of Hungary, and at the same time for workers, closes up 400 years of overtime with a three-year delay in payment for workers. We wonder how it is possible that none of the above-mentioned affairs will ever experience an epilogue, how it is possible that no one has ever responded to illegal financing. The operation and operation of the SDS propaganda apparatus were investigated by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Court of Auditors, the police, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, even the parliamentary commission of inquiry – and again nothing. That is why, of course, it is even more important that this time the Commission of Inquiry takes its work as soon as possible and matters finally come to an end. As a result of the work of this commission of inquiry, we hope that it will be more than just a final report and a determination of political responsibility. We certainly expect the end of the work of the Commission to be the beginning of the work of the law enforcement authorities, and with this objective we have contributed signatures under this requirement in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all colleagues and others who are in the hall! Today, we will again deal with a resounding theme that stirs spirits both on the political platform and in the public. Trust in politics and financial institutions in Slovenia is already distorted, but when there is a suspicion that those responsible in these institutions have exceeded their powers and abused their position to provide financial or material benefits to a particular organisation or individuals, we face a domino effect that undermines trust in professional and honest institutions or organizations. Globalisation of financial markets, opening borders, free movement of people and the release of international trade open opportunities for cooperation and economic growth, but unfortunately they also allow organised financial crime. Money laundering is just one of his distinctive forms. Every effort must be made to limit the dimensions that undermine all efforts to the transparency of the business of operators, economic or political. We all know that we are particularly sensitive when we talk about the financing of political parties that advocate for the political will of voters in their programmes, as they give us in their confidence in the elections powers to manage the country. This trust is risky to give up, not only risky, but irresponsible. It is understandable that political parties need financial resources to ensure the existence and implementation of activities, we participate in political and electoral campaigns, but not at any cost and at the expense of suspicious and even illegal financial transactions in Slovenia and abroad. The Slovenian legislation in force is very clear and indisputable in this respect, as it prohibits the financing of political parties from abroad. However, it is also true that customers have the right to ownership in companies that acquire funds abroad. We are quite all parties to the financing of our own activities under the supervision of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, and that is also the case. We agree that, in this particular case, a parliamentary investigation may determine the potential political responsibility of public function holders in the illegal operation, namely this money laundering, tax evasion, transparency of contracts, financing from abroad or abuse of the position of self-use or intervention for a third party. As a result, the investigation can help to strengthen the strength of the anti-money laundering, terrorist financing and tax evasion system. The new chapter opened by this investigator is the role of the media in creating and forming an opinion of the public on a particular political party. In their basic mission, the media should be concerned about the free movement of information, the diversity of content, free and open communication and, in particular, transparency. There is also a debate on media freedom and their independence, which goes beyond the scope and purpose of this investigation. This will deal with the so-called hygiene of certain media activities, as it is suspected that during the election campaign they have changed into a useful tool for political advertising or an advertising machine for a political party. We anticipate that this investigation will trigger violent reactions both on the opposition's side and on the coalition's side, and we will once again witness political ping-pong and overplay. However, in the Desus Group we generally agree that investigations to verify the suspicion of irregularities are welcome in any case, so we support the establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The next position will be presented by the mag. Mr Dejan Kaloh, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u74	Madam President, thank you for your floor. In a way, I am honored, because in this mandate I am the first and only Member in the explanatory part of any investigation. Either I stay a statistician or maybe I'll be appointed a witness, he'll show time. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this is a request for the determination of the parliamentary inquiry under consideration by 51 members of the coalition with the first-signed Branet Golubović, a new account of the left-wing coalition with the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is based again on the abuse of parliamentary legislation, even the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. There is no parliamentary investigation and cannot be a means to assert the interests of the individual parliamentary groups who wish to cover and investigate alleged irregularities that are supposed to fall within the sphere of public affairs, to abuse the institution of parliamentary investigations and to obtain data which are either entirely private or have absolutely no connection with public activity or public officials and relate to natural persons or legal persons who do not fall within the sphere of public government activity at all. Here we also see some coincidence, but of course there is no coincidence. In fact, this request for this investigation also coincides with Prime Minister Marjan Sarc's invitation to state-owned companies to consider in which media they will advertise and in which they do not. It is more than obvious that this is a coordinated action on the sidelines of the Cabinet of President of the Government, the Culture Ministry, with the announcement of the tightening of media legislation and the investigative commission to be led by Mr Möderndorfer. Of course, the target has long been known, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the media, which do not report according to the government's direction. It is more than obvious that the purpose of the investigation is to gain insight into the intestines of the SDS client, to maliciously discredit it, to attempt to paralyze it and to prevent it from operating. The demand itself – The legal and legal service has warned you in several places – is from my perception at the level of the primary school paper, legally unsustainable. You heard right, insufferable. You have corrected this cosmetically, but in all the most important legal aspects that explain the fairness of such a requirement, and they have, as already mentioned, been correctly detected by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, you are still in the field of legal non-resistance in your request. Firstly, to a large extent or not at all, you have shown the public interest of this investigation. You have not specifically defined the investigation tasks of this investigation, and in this anti-esdees you are very keen on the principle of the division of power. Among those 51 Members, you are four university-graduate lawyers, two even with a state-run legal exam. I wonder if at least you four lawyers have read this request. And the esteemed Vice-President, Mrs Hefferle, is also a lawyer, I think, with a legal exam. How can you sign under such a requirement, which is then completely torn apart by the Legislative and Legal Service? The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Parliamentary Investigation Act itself and its Rules of Procedure provide that the parliamentary investigation shall be determined on matters of public interest or public interest. The evidence of public interest in the investigation is therefore a condition for the constitutional admissibility of the parliamentary investigation. Did you show it? Of course you didn't. It follows from the order that the subject matter of the investigation is mainly focused on conduct, referring to alleged infringements of the rules of individual natural and legal persons of civil law, individuals, economic operators and political parties, not the functioning of the executive and administrative branch of authority. It is therefore an investigation which interferes more or less with the private sphere of natural and legal persons of civil law. Mrs. Dijana Djudžić, mentioned 23 times in the decision-making act, is there any public function in Slovenia? It's not. This lady is neither a citizen nor a resident of the Republic of Slovenia, but you are now extending the borders of your parliamentary investigation to the Republic of Serbia, perhaps stretching even to Australia, because in your request you even mention the former majority owner of the New Horizons, unfortunately already deceased Dusan Ljovica. Are private-owned companies issuing media, Nova24TV and Democracy and their responsible persons in what capacity is the public function? Of course not. Are the members of the board of directors and the supervisory board of the company, in this particular case of the NKBM, the holders of public functions? Neither did they. Private entities and their conduct may, of course, be subject to a parliamentary investigation, but provided that public interest is demonstrated for this purpose, provided that the activity of a private entity has effects in areas for which the State is competent or certain links with the State, either through financial support or through the participation of the State in companies. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, such a definition and justification of public interest as you provide, in particular with regard to economic operators, is too general, indeterminate and lacking and does not meet the required standard of definition of public interest. And even in that last final version you didn't fix it, it is said that you don't take the professional service of the National Assembly into account. You have not done your homework on the principle of the specificity of the research task. The SPS on this: "The individual points are too general and indeterminate and therefore the tasks of the parliamentary commission are defined too loosely. We note that in the case of an investigation, public function holders are not designated. In this regard, we point out that the objective of the supervisory parliamentary investigation can only be to determine the political responsibility of those holders of public functions against whom the National Assembly can directly", the emphasis is directly, "imposes political responsibility or, in accordance with a predetermined procedure" In view of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions to be allowed, we have heard today that the conclusion of two loan contracts between a political party and the entities of the target law, or which are supposed to allow the illegal financing of the political party's electoral campaign, is used by officials, political parties' bodies, such as the party's presidents, the party's secretary-general, are not holders of public functions, as they have been appointed by political parties' bodies as private entities. This is not only the Legal and Legislative Service but also the Supreme Court's judgment, which you could also dig up while you're browsing, if you had any interest in it. Consequently, the National Assembly cannot determine their political responsibility. The constitutional principle of the division of power is also for you the Spanish village or, rather, the Murgel village. Why? This coalition has completely wiped out the borders of the area. There is no difference between the coalition in the National Assembly and the government, and you obviously want to subordinate yourself to the judicial branch of power. Let's just remind ourselves of Prosecutor Kozin, who obviously has no problem with this, because in this house of democracy he preferred the super-coalic party Levica. The principle of the division of power lays down the limits of the parliamentary investigation, and you have stretched it all the way across the judicial branch of the authorities on this request. More. You'd like to be prosecutors and judges yourself. Legal and legal services have also stopped you at this point. The specific conduct of the service or the abandonment of state prosecutors may not be the subject of a parliamentary investigation. The PSC also reminded you that the criminal investigation is one of the stages of criminal proceedings under the jurisdiction of the courts. It was your first request that a criminal investigation be carried out in one case and therefore an open trial which, due to the independence of the judiciary, must not be the subject of a parliamentary investigation. More. You would now extend this limit to the legality of the parliamentary investigation to verify the financing of the electoral campaign of a particular political party, or if this funding was in accordance with the law. However, according to the law in force, the Law on Political Parties speaks about this and the Law on Referendum and Electoral Campaign, it is under the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors. This should be taken into account both at the time of the parliamentary investigation and at the stage of the investigation, in order to avoid unacceptable interference within its competence. When I read your request, you were so unserious that in this request you referred to a 2011 parliamentary inquiry on the six sides. And there you again stood before the Court of Auditors, otherwise you found contradictoryly yourself that this court did not find any illegal bypass funding through free weeks, but that you found it in this investigation then. But it's strange that these lucid findings of yours were not taken seriously by the police, not by the D.A.'s office, but only to discuss this in court. The 2008 Court of Auditors report, dated 17 July 2009, gives the following opinion on the correctness of the amounts shown in the report on the electoral campaign, with the exception of some minor errors, “is that the report on the Slovenian Democratic Party’s electoral campaign in all important respects shows the correct amounts, in accordance with the Law on Elections and Referendums and the Law on Political Parties”. Furthermore, the opinion on the correctness of the collection and use of funds for the electoral campaign. “In the case of the financial court, we believe that the Slovenian Democratic Party has acted in accordance with the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act and the Political Parties Act in all important respects in the collection and use of funds for the electoral campaign.” So, during the period that you say the breach was committed, I don't know what, the Court of Auditors found nothing controversial. Therefore, once again, dear coalition Members, on the soul – you are not a court, and thank God that this is how, otherwise, any of us Members of the SDS species would illegally and unconstitutionally remain without their parliamentary mandate as it happened in 2014 to the President of the SDS. But in one part, your request to appoint a parliamentary investigator is useful. In order to be fair and truly want to investigate the controversial or illegal financing of political parties from abroad, as well as from the pockets of Slovenian taxpayers, in order to capture actors to the extent of the investigation, who actually abuse the media and use it as a tool of political marketing and how they distort democracy. It would therefore be necessary to extend the subject-matter and scope of this parliamentary investigation, but at the same time it would satisfy the criteria of such public interest and the definition of the investigation task, and would remain within the scope that does not violate the constitutional principle of the division of power. The scope of this parliamentary inquiry should therefore cover the following, but this time the key questions to defend democracy in our country. To what extent is foreign capital represented in PRO Plus and its media derivatives involved in the continuous promotion and election campaigns of LMŠ, SMC, SD, Desus, SAB and Left? To what extent is the foreign capital represented in KB1909, the owner of Mladina, involved in the permanent promotion and election campaigns of LMŠ, SMC, SD, Desus, SAB and Levice? By knowing that KB1909 was eliminated in December 2017. What share of the commission from the state NLB-washed billions of euros for Iranian terrorists was received by individuals and individuals in leading positions in LMŠ, as the Commission of Inquiry discovered in the previous mandate that their closest relatives were directly involved in this criminal activity? How many times and in what amount did Branko Roglic, the Honorary Consul of Slovenia in Croatia, or one of the richest Croatians, read this in Croatian media, financially supported the SMC party in the election campaign? Even though it's forbidden by law. In this regard, we also note the responsibility of the public function holders, but here we are talking about the holder of the public function Mir Cerar, then the President of the Government, today the foreign minister, in connection with his indecisive, barren or sold policies towards Croatia regarding the vital interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, the parliamentary investigation should also cover all municipal freemen, who are purely permanent political propaganda of mayors, who also come from coalition parties and are already intensifying each time local elections, and of course Slovenian taxpayers pay for this propaganda. In doing so, it is worth reminding us of something else. The President of LMŠ and current Prime Minister Marjan Šarec have already abused the municipality of Kamnik, which is distributed free of charge to citizens and paid by taxpayers, for his own promotion a year ago. The first two pages of Kamničanka newspaper in November 2017 included a pear article entitled Charec in the second round of presidential elections. In this way, Marjan Šarec personally opened up the season of hunting for tax money in the context of municipal bats, as many Slovenian mayors followed before this year's local elections. If the candidate can work for the President of the Republic of Slovenia, why can't the mayors do so. Of course, I will not support such a written parliamentary inquiry. In fact, it is a first-class precedent when the coalition wants to use the institution of parliamentary investigation to make it impossible for the opposition to function, which is contrary to the fundamental demands of democratic regulation and the unheard of conduct in the modern democratic republics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The next, last, will present the position of the LMŠ Group Mr Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The parliamentary inquiry, which we are discussing, will identify the political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of having an impact on the alleged money laundering in the New Credit Bank of Maribor and the suspicion of unlawful financing of the SDS political party for the early election of Members to the National Assembly in 2018. In doing so, it will endeavour, if necessary, to amend existing legislation governing the financing of political parties and the financing of the media at the time of the electoral campaign. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that the existence of a suspicion of financing a political party from abroad, which appeared in the last state-run elections, is worrying for two reasons. The first is that this is forbidden by law. The second is doubtful about the sovereignty of a political party if it is financed from abroad. In recent times, this problem has also arisen in some other major country. We can lively follow the example of the world's greatness and implications, which has a suspicion of the active assistance of another superpower in the campaign of the candidate who was elected. We can imagine that in the case of financing a political campaign from abroad, someone is expecting a counterservice. We probably agree that there is no free lunch in this case. What is it about the public that leads us to a parliamentary investigation? The report of the Election Assessment Mission, which visited Slovenia between May and June 2018, states, for example, that many of the mission's co-conspirators expressed concern about the possible financial assistance from abroad for a particular party. This party has a significant share in the publishing company, which has allegedly received substantial funding from Hungary in the past year and which has been issued by several media outlets that have carried out pre-election propaganda for that party through their media content. This party also received a loan of EUR 60 000 from a legal person who is not a bank or a loaner, which the law does not allow. The law provides that customers can only borrow money from banks, lenders and natural persons. However, the legal person in question was none of this. In this case, however, the amount was four times higher than the amount allowed. This was disturbed by the Court of Auditors, which has therefore tabled two motions against the party concerned. The first took the said loan and the second took a loan from a foreign natural person of EUR 450 000, which exceeded 30 times the amount recorded in the Political Parties Act as a limitation on the amount of the loan to a natural person. Later, when the story was released by the media, the party terminated the contract and returned the loan. Your Honor! Article 21 of the Slovenian Political Parties Act clearly prohibits the acquisition of the client's funds from contributions from foreign legal and natural persons and any other acquisition of funds for a foreign party. Control over the financing of political parties and their campaigns plays an extremely important role if we are to combat the partisan influences on political processes and decision-making. I would like to point out that, in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we want sovereign political parties and, as a result, the sovereign Republic of Slovenia without any foreign influence. This is the only way we can raise political culture in our country to a higher level, so we expect the participation of all the parties in this committee, because we probably all want possible irregularities to be investigated.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. Mr Pavšič, the first speaker, applied for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you, Madam President. The best defense is an immediate attack, and today we are witnessing it. We are trying to argue in a calm manner why we have decided to set up this parliamentary commission, and then we get back a number of readings. These findings can also be copied by this commission. And if she's reasoned enough, she will. I'm 100% sure of that. The abuse of legislation and even of the constitution has been reported to us. With regard to this Institute, I would like to point out that the administrative order of Slovenia was introduced by Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 and that, at that time, the founder or legislator has very broadly defined the purpose of this Article. Article 93 provides: The National Assembly may order an inquiry into matters of public interest. That provision is also governed by the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. It follows from those acts, which have specified the Constitutional Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, that a parliamentary inquiry into matters of public interest is carried out to identify and assess the actual situation that may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly, namely the political responsibility of the holders of public functions or public powers, to amend legislation in a particular area and other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction. So not only is political responsibility recognised due to political responsibility per se, but it is to have some consequences. And if we can find out some confusion that I will not use illegally, because there have been no findings so far, then there must be consequences. But they must be such that they mean a move for the better. This also means that the parliamentary investigation identifies and assesses the actual state of public interest in both the political and legislative aspects that are within the competence of the National Assembly. In this way, the National Assembly shall independently explore the actual situations, the clarification of which shall be deemed necessary in order to exercise its constitutional powers and also to ensure the legitimacy of its authority. The parliamentary investigation is therefore not intended solely for the opposition to exercise control and for irregularities in the conduct of the executive branch. Moreover, we do not see the proposals of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation as a means of political pressure, which we have now seen. We will not abuse it for political purposes, nor for political self-promotion, which has unfortunately proved to be the case with some investigative commissions in the past. We understand it and will also carry it out in accordance with the purposes laid down by the Constitution and the law. We will identify and explore the actual state of funding for political parties – I say in plural – which will be the basis for the adoption of the legal and political decisions of the National Assembly. Legal and political. We will also explore the actual situation of alleged illegality in financing the election campaign for early elections in the National Assembly, which follows from the OSCE Office's final report on democratic institutions and human rights to assess early elections in the National Assembly on 3 June this year. The latter assessed the electoral process according to compliance with OSCE comments, other international obligations and standards for democratic elections and compliance with national legislation. The report states that many about the campaign funding have expressed concern about the possible financial assistance from abroad for your client. The party has a significant share in the already mentioned Nova Horizon company, which allegedly received substantial foreign funding from Hungary in the past year. The financial support provided by companies in the alleged – I stress that nothing has been researched yet – in connection with Hungarian ruling parties, some Slovenian media have been criticized for their potential impact on the campaign, as well as in the assessment of the media environment in Slovenia. The report states that New Horizons and other media publishers, i.e. the media, such as Nova 24 TV and others, whose ownership is also related to your client, as well as to the aforementioned Hungarian investors, have advertised the party's campaign and that there is a suspicion that these media were allegedly used in an illegal way for political advertising and other forms of political propaganda intended to influence the decision-making process in the early elections or that it was allegedly illegal to finance the campaign. That the loan was hired, you also admitted it yourself. Then you recovered. You've arranged everything as it should be. I'm glad. If we find that everything was clean, wonderful, that it was just a mistake, a mistake, a bureaucratic thing — great. Then it means that we're all in here with a clean conscience and we can move on. But don't tell me, please, to report the press to the local elections. From the personal case, I'll tell you later because it's not for the public at all. It was with ads and flyers, very inappropriate content, that your client tried to influence the local elections in the place where I came from on the last day before the election silence, past the internal instructions of the biggest distributor in Slovenia. I'd love to explain that to you later. So far, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The first discusser is now Mr Predrag Baković and Mr Gregor Perič is preparing himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u80	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! When I listened to the position of the Group of the Social Democratic Party a little earlier, I actually experienced some déjà vu that reminded me of all the past processes that have taken place around this party. All matters around the party have never been decided on a substantive basis, but only on the process, i.e. on procedural errors and on them, not on who is to blame or not to blame. The cases were falling due to procedural errors and not because they were specifically decided on the matter. It would be time for this to happen once. Pure and clean elections and all the events connected with this and around these things are, in fact, the foundation of some healthy democracy. If there are indications or if you want reason to suspect that something was not going as it should be, it is right to clear things up. And, in fact, this is also the task of this commission of inquiry. The circumstances and events that are to take place in connection with the suspected impact on money laundering in the NKBM by foreign nationals, the suspicion of illegal financing by the SDS political party, the suspicion of illegal financing of this party's electoral campaign, in fact, require us to take action to determine the actual situation, political responsibility and to avoid any further machination. So, of course, if the need arises, legislation will also change. So the purpose is to clear up any doubts that have arisen in connection with this. As the predecessor said, if everything was all right, let's move on. Why is it important that both natural persons and bodies exercising certain public powers have zero tolerance for violations of the rules? Because otherwise, doubts arise in such a body, thus losing credibility as well as credibility and confidence. And if I pull this to a personal level, I can say the following. Although I was in school and lived in another system when I was young, I was often reminded, in addition to my parents’ warnings, that persons exercising certain public powers should not be indebted, in particular not excessively or accepting money from persons and institutions not registered for such activities or from strangers, unknown persons. For later they are easily in a position to act against such a person, but because of past services they are unable to do so. Rather, we are inclined to feel empathetic and unable to think very rationally about the possible illegal acts of someone who has done us such a favor. Of course, one who has done services to another somehow expects loyalty to him and perhaps some special ratings in the future. Therefore, following the conclusion of the Commission's work, consideration should also be given to future financing and the way in which political parties are financed. If I express myself vividly, differently, in particular suspiciously and illegally funding the electoral campaign puts individual parties in a better or worse position, given the amount of money that a party has. If everyone ran 100 meters, they'd figure out someone was going to start at 50 meters, another one at 150 meters, and the third one might be at the finish line, and we don't even know it. This should also be investigated by this Commission of Inquiry and pointed out the need to amend legislation, which would also prevent possible illegal financing of any political party in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Gregor Perič, to prepare Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you so much for the word and a nice greeting to everyone! Today we're talking about another investigator we're setting up. As we hear it's the second of three, so we're going to have a third chance, and obviously we're going to be doing a lot of research, we're going to put a lot of energy into finding out if something was wrong or if something was wrong, and especially who did it. Then what are we going to do about it? It's another question. If I rely on experience from the past, something too clever, I'm afraid not. But I hope that these three investigators or two will make an exception in this sense. The investigator we are currently dealing with is one combination of two elements or two forms of investigators. On the one hand, it is a supervisory investigation to determine whether there has been any deviations from the legislation and from the desired conduct in our society, in our political system on the one hand, and, on the other hand, a legislative investigation that has a more focused desire, when we find out something, then these anomalies, these derogations also with corrections, with legislation or other acts, and to prevent such movements from occurring in the future. I hope that this investigation will have this second result in particular, so that it will emphasise this legislation, so that we can also further mature as a political system, because obviously this legal framework that we have at this time is not enough to guide us more effectively so that we do not then make a variety of mistakes. I speak here in very general terms. However, the investigation or the contents of the investigation are quite specific. In order to understand it well, we need to go back a little bit during the previous term, where the new NKBM was on the wallpaper. Even in this investigation, there was one rare conclusion that had been concluded. If we come to this conclusion, we will find very interesting things, including the fact that the individual representatives of this bank were not overly excited about wasting or devoting their time to the National Assembly with various unpleasant questions or answers to unpleasant questions. It was therefore recommended that this investigation should continue in a new reference to the National Assembly. And here we are. In part, we continue to do what the previous term could not be in the face of different circumstances, or we can say that some manoeuvres or circumventions have been completed, and some new circumstances have arisen, which also require a very in-depth assessment. I'll be among those who'll be very happy if we find out everything's okay. Whether it will or not, it will mainly show time and, in particular, the facts. The fact is that the matter we are dealing with today is also in the public interest. I am sure that the public is very keenly interested in what has happened and what is happening within the electoral campaigns, how political parties are financed in Slovenia, whether the activities that are also taking place across borders are such that they are appropriate and appropriate or not. And if they are not, then certain consequences and measures must be drawn. We have also heard a great deal about the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service has expressed certain concerns about the basis that we have before us regarding the conduct of this investigation. Here I have to say very clearly, and this is no secret, I believe that we all know that the Court of Auditors has its powers, that the police and the prosecution have its powers, and that in the system where we operate, that is, in parliamentary democracy, even in the international context, it is comparatively comparable that no commission of inquiry in terms of jurisdiction must and cannot interfere with the competence of another body. Especially if it's another branch of power. And even in this case, today, too, this investigation will be nothing more than an investigation commission investigating or examining and identifying, and I believe it will also find political responsibility. Political responsibility is, however, a very basic concept within democracy, but it is recognised in two ways, one with an investigative commission within this house, and the other is due to or additional motivation outside this house, i.e. the public itself. The mechanism is very simple and I believe that in this sense we will reach some goals or conclusions that will benefit our political system. Otherwise, we haven't done much. If I return to the public interest, then the elections are the moment when every political system is slightly staggered, but it can also be seriously staggered and therefore it is important that they take place without a cane, without the shadow of any doubt that everything has been done as it should be. On the contrary, all these things that should not have happened, cast a shadow at these elections and cast a shadow primarily on the legitimacy of the elections and, if we move forward, on the sovereignty of the state itself, which I think no one can afford or think of. I would just like to go on with the fact that we've read a lot in the media over the past few months. With very high expectations, we have also waited for the response of individual institutions and I am pleased that within this process we will be able to put all these arguments on the table, weigh them and see if anything was wrong. And if it was wrong, there is an even more difficult task for us to have the National Assembly as the highest instance in this regard to draw certain decisions or adopt certain acts that will, in the future, categorically prevent any abuse in this sense, abuses in the sense of engendering the legitimacy of elections as such and also our political system, after all, the reputation of the National Assembly, in which we must all work very much. In short, they would have had an impact on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The next debater is Dr. Franz Duck, get Mr. Jean Mahnic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I've got quite a bit of time to get my buddy ready. A lot of things are still wrong and it was wrong, and I can say that because I've run the contents of what you're going to investigate twice. I'm not running for the third time. Maybe I'll be a replacement to just follow up a little bit. For the first time, I ran the contents of this investigation into the KNOVS until I stepped out of KNOVS because the current KNOVS Chairman is a mag. Grims at least partially abused this commission, which was confirmed by the investigator led by colleague Möderndorfer and also by Nova Slovenija in this conclusion that Mr Grims somehow misused his powers, which is one of the conclusions, did not object. That we have trouble financing political parties is a story that has been repeating itself for a quarter of a century. This is recalled by the OSCE, cautioned Transparency International, and is recalled by someone else. Sovereignty, or if you want, among nationalities, something that becomes a state, is also the fact that other countries, that foreigners do not get involved in the internal affairs of a particular country, but in the political process. Of course they always do. Even the Sumerians have done it or are trying to do it. Now I could explain for three hours the brief story of Afghanistan, who did it, who didn't do it. Many uncritical also in the new left hand to Putin and his team, who do this quite frankly by destabilizing Europe with more right radicalism than anything else. Of course, try some other societies and countries after destabilisation. You know what kind of neighbouring state boots doesn't have their secret agents on the coast to go there to cappuccinos to compare whether the cappuccino is better in Trieste or better in Koper. And of course, I will honestly say that when I was at one of the many visits to the Hungarian Embassy, because you can talk to your neighbors, you can build a wall, but you can have such or other wars, then I told the other person of the Hungarian Embassy, if Levica were in the government, of course, the ambassador, which I greatly appreciate, would have been called at least to Mladika a long time ago. Now, all these stories wouldn't have happened to me if we had a job to protect the constitutionality, a paraphrase of course of the German domestic secret service, if we had a serious Youth, if we had a serious foreign policy and if we didn't have one, I'd just say, because I have a classy Prime Minister like the previous one at the end of the language. Why was he like that? It's probably clear after some stories got out around the second track. [[…]] This is also why Levica did not support the specific composition of the ministerial team. That part of the spread of intolerance through certain media is, of course, the task of the media inspectorate. It's not the task of any other branch of authority. If I go back a little bit, the first term – if you want to become a serious Member or Member of Parliament, I personally think that more than three mandates are too much, because then you become a cartoon of yourself – is the apprenticeship. In the last year of this apprenticeship, I have devoted a great deal of time to this issue, a great deal of time to work on KNOVS, investigators, investigators usually get a name by the name or surname of the person who runs it, in short, Janie's investigators, if I can call it that, and through this I have somehow matured. I also matured in the sense that I understood why my mother had less than 500 euros in full-time pension, why my brother worked his whole life for a minimum or a little over it, why my father waited so long for surgery and the like. Of course, I'm talking about stories – fellow Logar looks at me a little bit – when they tell you when you come into politics, look, don't shiver into energy, don't scratch into money, and you'll survive. Of course, the way I did, I would go straight to both of them, sometimes at the weekly level, at the previous point Jelko and I would start, threaten, who and where and how he would kill me in Maribor. The fact that I was powerless in my office for a year is already common knowledge. And somehow, through this investigator, the story of the Slovenian transition was very clear to me. These are now gentlemen after years, I am jokingly saying that we are where we are, because eternal young people from the Union of Socialist Youth Slovenia have brought us here where we are. These are people after years, if you want, from Mr Golobic, through Mr Pahor, to Mr Janša and a little more. There were some pubs who knew what was going on, one, the more academic ones, a little naively came in, like some of my colleagues from the FDV went into this big SMC, and they got bitter, and now they're writing some less or more thick books. And if anything has turned out through this Janie investigator, there's been a split of the land at the level of the money. SD, LDS more Nova Ljubljanska banka, SDS Maribor. The only difference was that the Ljubljanaians were a little more idolatrous, but “tots” in Maribor had a little more Putinovo practice through the bank. Now the secretary of the SDS Group is watching me, and they're laughing. I'm starting to explain how you've been laundering money through Croatia, through some fictional plots that have been bought and so on. And of course, when some of the KPK's predecessor wanted to deal with it, this KPK had to be destroyed. On what the Court of Auditors is doing, however, it seems to me that Members and Members are reading a little bit more, let alone a serious legislative amendment on this basis. And this is in short what the right-hand man will call a deep state, which someone else will call something else or a third way, which is called crony capitalism in English. The Croats are now talking through the Agrokor affair, as they say, buddy capitalism. Here were actually some of these stories, we know what is the mother of Slovenian affairs – the arms affair. Today, with one third of the investigators, I said that the establishment of a bad DUTB bank is the date when the Slovenian tradition ends. This is a requiem of Slovenian privatisation. And we're somewhere between here and here. Why do some of this awkwardness happen again and again in practice? Half of it, half of it, I'd say, maybe because they have a worse internal intelligence job or too autocratic, and then they turn them in. Let's be honest, this Djudić story was brought out by someone who was offended. And I don't think of it that way. But it seems to me that this investigator, who will partly continue to be a preliminary investigator, has to deal with why we have a system that doesn't work. They're free once. And secondly, there's a proliferation where there's a consultative body hidden in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when some other bureaucrats don't even know it exists, and that's what I'm going to say is whether they're meeting or not. And there are problems with the Anti-Money Laundering Office. However, there are major problems in the Bank of Slovenia and with the gentleman you burned yesterday, I fear that they will not be resolved, because we have one very deep and wide eloquent organigram, somehow I hope to claim after a serious work, which is deliberately done as it is done, that no matter goes to the end. And you have similar excuses in the police department, where then through the investigator, through the open and closed section, you come to the point that they say that they can't communicate with each other, and then when you're pulling them a little bit, they tell you that, of course, there's a hallway in the hallway, and they have a coffee machine in the hallway. Good morning. In short, we kind of have to ask ourselves why we have these organs. Why do these organs work so dysfunctionally? Why these many organs behave in a similar way to almost always the SDS, when you get them with hands in marmalade: No, we had the best intentions, we didn't do anything wrong, you're all ugly, against us, up and down. In short, beyond just putting on a pranger something that's a case studio. Maybe it's because in this transition it's kind of a default that Janša is a black sheep, you're the other, the old, so-called left that's not, but the pubes are fine. Far from it, but you know. I agree with someone or because we are from the same street or road, Kalohom, that these municipal freemen should also be looked at. Dr. Nezmah says they should even be banned. But it's not just Ljubljana, you know, I, if I go to sleep in Ivančno Gorica, open a newspaper, oh, we have candidates for elections, Mr. Mayor congratulates up, down, no. This should also be discussed seriously. If we are seriously discussing the financing of political parties, we should also start talking about how much of this is done, in the people's language, in the chalk. Anyone who knows a little about this – and I will only tell you about the Maribor case – if I go down the street a little bit, it is immediately clear that Kangler and Arsenovich gave more money for the elections in Maribor than Levika gave for the whole of Slovenia. How do you pay for that? Also, some formerly respected president of the Republic of Slovenia, whom the SDS likes to mention, from the region of Ljubljana, where the streets are named after the trees – I have a very good memory, this is the mistake of Trčkov – once, for whom it is possible long ago, a million and a half million marks remain due after some elections. How's that payback? We used to roll 1.7 million is a lot of money. That's right. But if we sum up all these stories, especially in the city’s congregations and so forth, it is certainly worth it by making an integral graphic image of the congregation. In Maribor we had one just before the elections, when I saw it, almost a stroke hit me. And someone's going to be renovating the portal. I don't know if this committee is going to deal with this, but it seems like it's about time we started doing this, because it's actually some kind of leaking public money, as I say. Of course, we don't have the same vats. If Levica got, I don't know, but if Venezuela wasn't always going to be on the wallpaper, 12 or 15 grand from Portugal, it would probably all explode, not just those so-called Yanshe media, all the media would be buzzing. My colleague Han would probably be happy in the middle of a little distance from the SD. If we talk seriously, let us also talk about who and how the German foundations finance. In general, it is only here that some people see Rosa Luxembourg mention, and they may even have the most intelligent design there. The position at the foreign ministry, transparent and very well seen, whether one foundation invited someone to something or another foundation or an EPP connection, I don't know, paying Mr Peterlet to teach how he got over cancer without medication. I am only talking about this as a citizen of Slovenia when I look at what our Members and Members are doing in the European Parliament, because this must be very nicely and transparently recorded, including by who invited him. That we have this square circle, as we have it, because this large majority of the old policy fits. If we are having a serious conversation, we must also talk about how the last day of the election, not only what colleague Pavšič was saying, but how someone will bother you on the phone about some, Serbs would say, kubaji phone polls, the one to call if it seems bad to anyone. Once, I don't know, years ago, I was waiting for a troll from the shaft, and I happened to listen to a call like this that was going down. We know all that. This is then some diaspace if we are going to talk seriously about policy financing, about non-transparent policy financing, about some of the same points of origin at least. A colleague was doing a 100-metre comparison. We all know that colleague Breznik used to train athletics, and we'll get ahead of us if we have more money and better tennis, but in some policy, in particular in a policy that is increasingly being driven by media images, it's important. Here we can also ask citizens and citizens and begin to think this way. It would be difficult for me to vote in the national elections, but only in municipal elections – for once in politics I will not be in politics if the troll doesn't run over me, or if the stroke doesn't hit me first – for someone to see what some of the jumbos are there, I don't know, Mr. Jelinčič, I went up after our ends, Victory, Victory, Victory, Victory. Didn't anybody give you any trouble where your money came from, Victory? And it's probably like that again, a little bit of chalk. It may be necessary to eliminate or amend the questions raised by the Members. You know what we talk about when we talk about financing political parties. But on the one hand you will have here, yesterday I ran in Maribor, to her, Mr. Trček, you replaced the personal document because I am a politician, personally there, but on the other hand we have all these stories that have been going on for 25 years. [[…]] Now, in particular, you, who are already in politics, will be doing some kind of pathetic symphony here. Things have been clear for a long time, and they have been repeatedly warned by foreign civil society actors, domestics, and some warm water is not to be detected here. Here this commission can help, lead to a little bit more of this getting into the slums. As for another story in which a lady is usually mentioned, because it has been so crowded in the media that I will not tell a secret if I say that this lady on the radar had offices to prevent money laundering throughout the region, that this lady could not afford one of the average cars that many Members have, even though these amounts are actually what they are. As I come from the Styrian end, I am very happy, under the indications that one of the most prominent representatives of the Styrian Chamber of Commerce went to see this same lady for money, he said he needed it for his family. And that's some serious question we have to ask ourselves in this country. Is this some kind of model of society that we're going to build on. With such a model of society, we will not have higher pensions, more young people will go abroad, we will not save health care, we will not solve the problem of what I call "the nominee problem". And that's also some problem that's behind and yes, that's also, someone's going to say, stop politicizing, stop being ideological. That's the ideological question in the heart of what kind of society we want. Whether we want a society that will be intertwined with politics and criminal associations, which is quite a few countries that have come out of the former Yugoslavia, which is not such a rare practice in some other European Union member states, or whether we want a transparent society, with functioning institutions, that the rule of law, as you like to say, will not just be a letter on paper. If that's what we want, then we can't put together the KPK the way we did. Then the President of the State must take his role of recruitment more seriously and not be caught up with his political friends. Then we must also properly educate these persons, pay them properly and also protect them appropriately. And these are, in fact, some questions that are hidden behind the fact that this investigator will seriously ask her work. However, what is the subject of the third branch of government, in particular in this case, will of course be dealt with by the third branch of authority. But we must ask ourselves whether politicians and politicians from Slovenia will be in the various political options of some puppet of their political counterparts who will bribe us and, of course, implement us through national and other interests, whether we are or must be something, because this is also a key issue that is actually hiding behind it. I have a good memory of the previous term, when this second-track stunt could be stopped because it was known that it was not going anywhere or that it was not going in the right direction, then the SD also encountered little sense if I put it that way. And what happened on that committee in the basement? The SDS have stepped out. Good morning, Slovenia! Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Jan Mahnic, preparing Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Now they say when you finger someone, you always tell yourself with three fingers. And you could say that he who is without sin should throw the first stone. And here let me start by meeting someone, but I didn't know him, he met me, he said, Mr. Mahnic, I'm your supporter, I see what's going on about these financing political parties, he said, you can tell me publicly on the occasion, I have a colleague who's a waiter at the Hotel Livada, he said what Desus sings and drinks in this inn, goes to the order of Janez Škrabac. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder if this commission will also deal with such cases? She's going to investigate, is that true? We know about personal friendships, the connections between President Desus Karl Erjavac and Mr Janez Škrabac, we know that he opened the door to Russia and elsewhere. And I wonder if that's true? There's some logic that makes me believe that. Not to the firm, but whether or not someone's going to investigate it. In how many cases does Janez Škrabec finance the catering services of Livada Restaurant for Desus? We or you are starting a witch hunt with this investigative committee, or at least it would be a witch hunt, but it's obviously a witch hunt because you only mention the Slovenian Democratic Party. While the media supports you by saying that the investigative commission will investigate the financing of political parties from abroad, in fact you will not find or find any other party, but only the Slovenian Democratic Party. Will someone check the potential financing and financial assistance of the German client Die Linke to the Slovenian client Levica? You're talking about how the media that are close to us carried out propaganda before the elections and promoted our program. In each issue, the youth directly carried out propaganda for the client of the Left. One of the previous commissions also identified the presence of Italian capital in this week. If you give Mr Trček a replica, it will be an abuse, because I did not mention him or refer to his debate. Because the replica isn't meant to be that when you disagree with someone, you tell them everything. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] There's obviously something on it, but of course I don't see it in here. Then I'm interested in the media, and I don't know why it's so weird for you or what's wrong with a particular client helping bring up a media project. Let someone show me an article in Del, Dnevnik, Dinner, 24 hours or Siol, which makes an advertisement to the Slovenian Democratic Party in a positive sense. But I can show them, articles and contributions that give positive propaganda to all six coalition parties. Owner of Dela Stojan Petrič, owner of the Diary of Bojan Petan, at the Supper of Uroš Hackel. Previously, I think that Mr Pavšič or someone said that these media were created to influence the electoral outcome. What is more than the purpose of the impact on the election result is that Petra Krčmar asked about whom you will go to the coalition and why not with SDS at the meetings on POP TV for half an hour. You had a previous mandate as an investigative commission led by colleague Möderndorfer. If you started this, you missed it at the start, you put this loan out a little too early, January, you should have waited until May, so this story has already come to light and it's actually seen that there's no story. So before the elections they had nothing, the media didn't know what to do. And in order to influence the election result and to influence the composition of the later coalition, there was a constant issue with which you will go after the election to the coalition and why not with the SDS. But we know about the connections of Sister Petra Krčmar to the New Ljubljana Bank. We know about the connections between Dejan jeidan and Uroš Hakl and Stank Polanič. We know about the connections between Bojan Petan, Sebastian Selan and the clients of the List of Marjan Šarc. Direct propaganda was done by the Diary of the List of Marjan Šarc during the elections. Sebastian Selan's been picking up footage for you in the field. He worked with the List of Marjan Šarcs. This same Sebastian Selan, who came to the Owl for Chief of Owl a few days before Owl was informed of what was going on at the New Ljubljana Bank in connection with Iran. And after leaving this position, he immediately left for Director Terme Catež and Marine Portorož, again owned by Sebastián Selan. How's that? Is there any foreign capital here? Is there any illegal funding here? Why was Bojan Petan interested in winning the LMSH? What are the financial interests here? What's the background here? Who's gonna look into this? Work – Stojan Petrič. Isn't it interesting that as soon as Alenka Bratušek comes to the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Turks fly away and probably who gets the job now? Stojan Petrich for the construction of the second Karavank tunnel? Will you investigate possible funding and help Stojan Petrič? Not only through work, but also in the financial sense of Alenka Bratušek. I didn't track it anywhere. LMSH, what about Eles? What about the money, 8 thousand 500 euros they gave to Matthew Schpehar for a Facebook page? Did Matthew Schehar give any donations to the list of Marjan Sharc before the elections? Was this donation perhaps EUR 8 000 540? Are you going to look at this? Are you going to look into this? Social Democrats. Will you be able to explore any event that the Social Democrats and the Union of Fighters have together, and then the bill for the entire event and culinary will be paid only by the Union of Fighters? It's legal. Is that illegal? I think that out of the five members of the Bureau, four of them are prominent members of the Social Democrats. The Secretary-General is a member of the Social Democrats. You're talking about the VSO as a political organisation. The Union of Fighters has extended the term of the Social Democrats. The events they have – who will look at the funding? Here, colleague Han's already getting upset, so it's opening up. Look, this is what you wanted, then let's talk about everyone. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, okay, come on. Then why did you just write us in? The way we had to buy our own properties, we were in a subordinate position. Social Democrats inherited everything from their predecessor, they didn't have to buy anything. The money we had to invest in our properties, you could have spent on the elections because you already had all this infrastructure. Was that fair? How was that funded? Futura – who's going to look into this? How much money did former Minister of Agriculture Dejan Židan give to this company or give it to the Ministry of Agriculture? What's the problem with giving this company another 10,000 euros up or 20,000 euros up for some services, you're going to be doing us an electoral campaign, or you're going to give us so little advice. Look, this, you should check it out. I'm not saying anything here, but let's check it out. Will you check it out? No, you won't, because you're just focusing on the Slovenian Democratic Party. If you have serious intentions to amend the legislation, then you will investigate it. Will you investigate the remittances of Branko Roglic, the Honorary Consul in Croatia, the Modern Centre Party at the time? Would you like to see where the 30,000 Euros that Euro-Asphalt ordered to Cerara's Society took place? Is it possible that these 30,000 euros were used for the electoral campaign in 2014? Will this be investigated, will that be looked at? No, no, no. Because whatever you want to do, you're gonna have to make an extension proposal. And you'll say no. So once again, when you say it with your finger, with your three fingers, you say it back to yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much. A replica from Dr. Runk has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you. Actually, I agreed with my colleague Mahnik. But he forgot something else. He forgot about the NGOs. You know, when I fell into the National Assembly, I went to take a little look at how you have by the ministries, how they have funding for civil society, but here again the pingpong will jump a little on the SDS side. If you've listened to me, I've been talking about the whole old policy that you've set yourself up with this kind of story. And I also mentioned that there's a little bit of a discreant here. I don't have some crazy sympathy for Jankovic or Janša, but you know who you look at a little differently. But all I wanted to do was talk to you about something. The only medium who wanted to do a big interview with me was the reporter. At the beginning of my term of office, when I wrote for the Journal our economic programme, we had a meeting there on tourism because I criticised the monopoliation of tourism and, of course, Mr Petan, and the next day came out, Racek tourist in tourism and pulled some statements out. But a law that has largely destroyed television, as one important public institute and the fourth branch of power, is not called Trčkov or Kordišev's law, is called Grims' law. So you're back in this story and this fairy tale. Personally, I think that I would really need some serious resources from the state budget to restore the fourth branch of power, which will not be yours, not theirs, and I do not know whose. I'm actually proud that Levica doesn't have her own media. A young man from the Left?Oh, my God! And please, if the Youth of the Left probably wouldn't be the first to do interviews with Arsenovic in Maribor, we would be doing an interview with Šego. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Before receiving the floor, the next panellist shall have the floor of the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The Commission, which was led by Mr Möderndorfer in the previous term, has already found irregularities in the outcome of the media. Those of us who have ever dealt with the media know exactly how much this thing costs, even if it is free, and if it goes to all households all over Slovenia. It's crazy money. Then they shut down miraculously on election day. But that's the other thing that we're not going to go into some water that's going to challenge the replica to the replica and it's going to go all the way. That seemed very interesting to me, to compare lunches from fellow members of the Desus, who I don't know, to [[…]] [[background advertising]] Yes, this will be checked out, but we should eat for a while to eat 450 000 euros, if we add another 60,000 euros, we should eat even more, and I doubt we could eat that much. But let's also put this aside. You didn't listen at first, probably not to me as a proponent and not to the views of the parliamentary groups, when we explained why only one party was mentioned this time. The subject of the parliamentary inquiry is focused at this stage only on the suspicions of the above-mentioned irregularities or illegality, and we promise that the subject of the investigation will be extended as soon as the suspicions of illegal financing, which will be supported by evidence, not by one, someone on the road has said something to me and that is now proof, it may be indic. If anyone stands for that word, then I'm sure the commission will investigate it as well. And something else Mr Möderndorfer said about the position, which is very important. The first thing is to call on the Court of Auditors to give us all the findings of the last elections on any suspicion of any financing of any party. And the parliamentary commission will also deal with all of them. I don't like and I don't want to prejudge, I come from the fact that everything so far has been fair, and that we're all innocent before the law until proven otherwise. Parliament, too, is not the one that sees compliance with the legislation, but the political responsibility, which may later have legislative consequences. But this is a matter of broader consensus, and even 90 Members must discuss it and decide and more than half of those who vote must be in favour of some legislation being adopted. That is why we also talk about collective responsibility several times, regardless of how someone votes or does not vote. Responsibility is collective, but guilt is not. That's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. First of all, he's got a replica of Mr. Mahnic. It doesn't matter, you can, you're both in line.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you, Chairman. Please explain to your fellow Member the procedure before the Commission of Inquiry. In fact, he said that they would investigate any suspicion that would be confirmed by the crime. Explain to him that if there is no legal basis for obtaining certain evidence within the mandate of the Commission of Inquiry, the Commission of Inquiry cannot obtain such evidence. And since he can't get this evidence, there can't be any confirmed suspicion. And because they cannot be confirmed suspicions, they cannot extend the mandate of the commission of inquiry. Explain this procedure to him and let him not mislead Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your proposal. I hope that anyone who proposes and discusses will be asked how and how the request for an investigative commission is prepared. However, it is not the way some people are prepared on the basis of suspicion or suspicion and others on the basis of evidence and then suspected. I suggest Mr. Mahnic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President. Look, Mr. Pawnee, I said, I can't say that these are facts. It's normal. Someone comes up to you, tells you something, you check it out. How am I supposed to check it out? That's why he's an investigative committee. Because believe me, if someone came to me with an account, with a warrant, with proof, I'd go straight to the police and report it. But if you have evidence, you don't need an investigative commission. And then there's the other thing. Don't banalize these lunches. At Jankovic, there were 130 000 euros in two years. At Jankovic, there were 130 000 euros in two years. I hope this checks out.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u96	Well, I ask Mr Logar or the President to tell me what his procedural proposal was and where I violated the rules of procedure. That's all I care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u97	I didn't say you broke the rules of procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] No, he's not. Well, he can propose. I propose that we proceed with the debate. Member Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I said at the outset that we should, in fact, end this debate as soon as possible, given that we will not actually vote on it. It is, however, the fact that some try to prejudge certain things in this way. What is even more important is that some, more or less, make it very clear that they do not really want it, which is really unusual. I must say that I have listened very carefully to the position of the SDS, Mr Kaloh and I understand his former client or not, because he is still his client colleague, but his colleague, the Member of the previous mandate, would say that if he had already read something to be nice, if he had at least understood what he read, and would have been terribly angry because he has always been evil. And I will try to point at least one part of this nonsense or conflict of speech, of course. Firstly, it was obvious at the outset that the Legislative and Legal Service had broken up the work of the Commission with its opinion or the proposal that had been tabled. It would be nice if Mr Kaloh had at least a little patience with his colleague, who before this point, as a proponent, had in fact discussed and, last but not least, defended the public interest in the parliamentary investigation of hearts. That's what I'm saying. I hope that you have read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service for this committee and for those observations you have made today. And I'll tell you, because I believe you weren't paying attention, but it's amazing how you're going to figure out that the sentences are almost identical to your investigative committee. The opinion of the ZPS from its findings is as follows. “Parliamentary investigation may under no circumstances be intended to determine criminal or civil liability.” That's what he read to this investigative committee today. Interesting. The second thing is: “Parliamentary investigation can only be directed against those holders of public functions who are politically responsible to the National Assembly. Therefore, the subject of political responsibility is any public function that the person appointed to the function can at any time resolve without needing any reason of legal nature, but sufficient is the loss of confidence." Excuse me, this is the opinion of Mrs Godec's Legislative and Legal Commission of Inquiry. You're the one who's been reading this to us. But that was an investigative opinion. Why were you not so observant in presenting your views to your own commission of inquiry, the same opinion? You'll have to read, Mr. Kaloh, you know. The following is the same opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service: “The persons on whom the individual points of the subject can be drawn are not politically responsible to the National Assembly in different managerial or other workplaces of the healthcare provider at a secondary or tertiary level.” Look at him, you piece of shit, but that's exactly what's gonna happen here. And you hope to come up here and talk about how essentially this commission of inquiry is doing and that the Law-Legal Service has tore up, even more, add that it is actually almost identically written in smaller corrections. Of course he's identical. It can't be different. It's a very clear point of view. Finally, forget one thing that is essential — in the National Assembly, there is still evidence in the basement of things that we need to explore. That's not an assumption. It's not something someone remembered on the street, like a fellow MP said, that a waiter, a fan, told him someone paid someone a lunch there. But there are facts. There are documents for that. Don't joke. Are we making a fool of ourselves here? Do you know what this means when there is a suspicion that capital comes from another foreign country, and this in the media, whose owner is a political party? Even if it's a good purpose. Even if it's pure business, economics. Excuse me. In each serious country, they first think of one thing — that someone is holding someone in check. And this political official sits here in this national assembly, which is the highest authority, the representative body of this nation. Yes, I'm sorry, any normal person is actually concerned about such a situation. You're wondering today and you're wondering things, look what's going on in America. For two years now, they've only been dealing with whether the Russians had an impact on the elections or not, indirectly and so on and so forth. So this is a problem that we already have to clear up because of the public's interest and say whether or not we find out. I don't know what you're actually afraid of. There's nothing to be afraid of. In fact, you should be grateful to all of us! First of all, if we find out there's nothing wrong, everyone's gonna have to shut up and stop writing about it and you're gonna be winners. And secondly, if anything is found, yes, thank God, we will protect an interest that is still important in this country, that the other country has no influence on clear democratic procedures in this country. And that's not a joke! And it's not a political game anymore, left and right, and what else do I know? Next thing. At first, there was a sentence, fascinating, I mean, I was surprised you even hoped for something like that. It is not unusual that it coincides with the invitation of the President of the Government, in which the media should not be advertised. Has the Prime Minister said anything to the media? Did you recognize yourself in what media? That's a bigger problem for me. If you can see for yourself that something's wrong. That these are, say, just certain media. I didn't see that. But if I'm the only one who didn't see it, then let me know, I'll let myself be enlightened. You talk about how others do things and so on. Do not mind me, my colleague Mahnič is not in the hall again, but he was not at the beginning, and I will repeat one thing that is very important and very clear that there will be no misunderstandings and then there will be no misunderstandings about how to write or how to propose an extension to the investigative commission. No one said that if anyone knew anything, let them say so we'd just start investigating. I'm asking you very nicely, but we're not in the middle of anything. However, I have made it very clear that I will propose a decision and call on the Court of Auditors, which is the sole supervisor of public funds in political parties, to inform the Commission of inquiry and the National Assembly of whether there is any basis for investigating any other political party for the existing applicable legislation on a similar case. And in this case, of course, if this is established, the proposed extension of the subject matter of the investigation will be. To destroy this constant idea in the last month, which is repeated that the SDS is placed on an enemy pranger. Sorry, it's not like that. I have made it clear that at least three different documents speak of this. One document is the Commission of Inquiry, a report adopted by the National Assembly with a majority of the votes in this room and even suggested that the work of this Commission of Inquiry be continued in a specific part which has not been fully explored. Why wasn't he fully investigated? Because it's only been researched for five months. You all know when the establishment of this commission for NLB was proposed. It wasn't until later that the subject of the investigation spread to NKBM because we were working legally, not just by remembering a little bit and we said we'd find a little bit more money laundering in another bank. That was the basis. And, of course, she couldn't complete it, but she did come up with interesting findings and evidence that, by the way, the Commission of Inquiry did not find, but she did get it from the Bureau of Money Laundering Prevention. Then the next thing, there were signs of how other parties were doing something. Come with evidence. I would be most pleased if you would bring these papers so that we can start with a serious work on rumors that are today just rumors. As for how some would like to investigate everything on the average, I'm sorry, no SDS has ever shown that you've set up a democracy. Why is that? You have the right. No one's been able to tell anyone that you've set up a new horizon. Why is that? Because each party can set up its new horizons, because this is not the subject of an investigation at all. The subject matter of the investigation is something else. The fact that you have the media with which you boast and advertise your achievements, your beliefs, your ideological beliefs and any other, is nothing to be disputed with. However, it becomes controversial if, of course, the media is doing this in an illegal way with a pretense. And I'm not talking about democracy right now, and I'm not talking about the New Horizons, not even Nova 24, but I'm talking about the Freebies. But there was no telling who owned it, but interesting themes were only those known only by one political option. And interestingly enough, they went out when no one else needed them. And never paid. And interestingly, funded by state-owned companies. And even today, everyone raises their hands and pretends to be ignorant as if they don't know what's written down in our basement in the investigation of the report. I really advise all Members who do not know this case, go read this report. All reports are available to you. You can go read them every day and therefore have no excuses, I didn't see before you spoke public nonsense. This investigation was established, the commission of inquiry was set up and carried out in a very short time, only in one year, and came to interesting conclusions. And look at the fraction, the man who was at the state company, who was involved in the financing, later found himself, interestingly, in the NKBM. That's the problem, and nothing happened. And you don't want to talk about it. Alenka, I've already asked you to be cultural, and a little later when you have a word, not now. Then you say it's all being investigated, just to be working against you. Excuse me, who was trying to take over or took over from Mercator's proven sale under the table? Who was it that was running the case on behalf of your client? ASK. Have you all forgotten or what? Who was appointed to RTV at the time, Mr. Guzei and Možina, to take over? Was there an investigative commission about this? We all know what was going on back then. Was there an investigative commission about Toneto Krkovich and his music festivals? Where was this financed from? Stop talking in your head, and just like that, you're going to be handing out slaps here to anyone who has five minutes of time, and who happens to be here because you think you're losers because you can turn it off like that. Let's talk to the facts. Come with the facts on the table. As for the legal service, she gave her opinion. We have a duty to respect the law. But about what is right and what is wrong and how we will decide, we have a Rules of Procedure, we have a law and, of course, we will decide here. If it doesn't work for anyone, if they think it's wrong, they know what instances are. In accordance with its rules and with its powers, the Legislative and Legal Service has written its opinions and opinions, which are never binding on the National Assembly. But that doesn't mean that law enforcement is irrelevant. Not yet. It's very important. But when you compare one opinion, let us read another opinion and you will see that we use the same vats for the same things, but you only use the vats that fit you. Come to the committee, cooperate, and then you'll have a chance to say, in the end, whether it was right or right. This is the only instrument that can be right and democratic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that we are at the end of the list, I would like to read the three in turn for discussion: Primož Siter, Igor Zorčič and Mag. Dean Kaloh. First of all, Member Primož Siter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! It's basically a force of force that's simple. Now we're looking for some ways to complicate this. There is one proposal on the table that pours pure wine, and I see no reason why it would be in any way contentious. What's most controversial about this story isn't that we're dealing with some kind of excess right now, it's happened, and now, oh, we don't know what now, and this is really a new thing, and this is something we've never operated on before, we don't know how to react to it and we're poor and we're poor. It's not an excess, it's a regular practice in election campaigns. We are talking about some stopped practice, we have already heard in the explanations of 1992 SLS and Dragonja and Lek, and then in 2000 Bajuk and Iskra computers, in 2001 Social Democrats. What happened at the time is one very interesting, interesting thing, there's a problem, and we didn't say, let's solve it now, they said, let's give it a little easier legislation, let's make it a little more burdensome and finance political campaigns. So they went in the wrong direction. Not in the rescue. They went into deeper. Then came in 2008 this thing, which we have already heard about today, with the Express and the Slovenian Week. I ask myself, what was the greater sin of Slovenian politics at the time, or the fact that this happened, is that these two free-of-chargers, unexplained and with strange hazy circumstances, happened, or that a commission was set up in this institution that investigated, came to the conclusion that this was not right and the thing led to its end which was – what? Quiet. Nothing. Nothing happened. And here's Slovenian politics, without crashing itself, sent a message to the public, there's, there's, there's, there's, everything's fine. We'll be here, and we'll do what we want. You can pick up, but at the end of the day, no matter which side of the package this happened, we'll take care of it. It suits us that there are two classes, one that is negotiated, and one that has no power to achieve anything. But it was just a foreplay for the next step. It's a border movement. You were involved in all of these processes or at least most of them, it was found that there was some confusion of fog, but in 2018 at these national elections this limit was increased. A little more every time, one centimeter or one thousand or ten or one hundred of them are gone. So some hygiene in the political space is the last concern that Slovenian political space would take care of. It's been proven in 27 years. The abolition of public media, the persecution of non-thinkers, dictatorships or kingdoms, it seems to me that such wet dreams are of the Slovenian political establishment, which has now proved to be with this campaign. And because it follows as one faithful dog even this scene, but it is very domestic in neighbouring Hungary, but it is necessary to know that the illegalisation of homelessness comes with it, there are also 400 allowed, in quotations, overtime paid once every three years, and there comes something that your colleagues from SDS, your media have not reported in these days, will also happen on the street that is happening in these days. And now this commission, which I wish her the best, and I hope that she will do her job as she does, has two scenarios ahead of her. One is that, following the example of her predecessor, she raises her hands, in the end, she says, okay, we have led to this point and now what will and may happen in Slovenia, or that the work will start only where the work of this commission ends, and this is in clear sanctions for offenders. Of course, the challenge is always here. A while ago, on the EU Committee, we discussed a measure to announce to the European elections, which would marginalise the monitoring of campaigns and give political parties some kind of sanctions, some financial sanctions. But that's not a sanction. Any political party with some background will say, but, uh, okay, we'll put so much for the van, we'll put so much for lunch, we'll put so much for the posters, we'll give so much for the financial sanctions, and we'll put so much into the final round and she'll put it into her budget and fine. Let's move on. That's not a sanction. The penalty must happen to be as chica, and to lead to the desired result, it is said, order in this area must be with names and surnames. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Now we have the last discusser, this is the MEP. Dean Kaloh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u102	President, thank you so much for your word. I decided to respond only to those debaters who were as serious as they were. All the others that could have been labeled by the undersignment of the undersigned and the discrediters, but of course I won't. I think Member Duck has highlighted the Media Inspectorate. The media inspectorate is, of course, under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture. And in the media, believe it or not, there are only two websites that the Ministry of Culture defines as media, such as SDS and SD, as well as the collapse of Zares and Virant's fallen list. I am now asking you why you do not put in your website coalition members from LMŠ, SMC, SAB and Supercollective Left when submitting content that is also media. You are also very aggressive in presenting your political propaganda. Why aren't your websites if you're so subject to the law and everything we've heard today, why don't you follow the Media Act and enter your websites, which are actually the media? You're in violation of media law. We also heard about the media, which immediately shut down during the night. Look, your Social Democrats member Denis Sarkic was the founder and co-owner of the Ves.si web portal, which was in the exclusive domain of accounting with political competition. And the news.si went out in 2009, and the real year under the national elections, where you were a relative winner of the elections, no one bothered. And right next year, Denis Sarkic got a job with the Social Democrats as a pianist. And we didn't read it to you or think it was you, I don't know what malicious things you were doing. I still think, I mentioned earlier in the debate, you've whistled a number of times at the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, then you get the Constitutional Court slapping you, repealing that unconstitutional, illegal act, but no, you're shuddering again. Previously, Mr Möderndorfer, now he's gone, asked if I had read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service well. Of course I did. But they were clear, they were very clear, the worst of all, you violated the constitutional principle of the division of power, you didn't specifically highlight the subject of the task, and there were a number of things that you were told, but of course in this cosmetic correction then you didn't fix any of them. But in my case, I can make it very clear that you also used a lie to buy my business share, the value of it, it says, these are really ridiculous amounts that don't even hold up any serious economic judgment. The company that works, over its thumb, a million euros in income to sell you a share for a substantial price is, of course, ridiculous. Let's get these things straight. I will not talk here about the value of the business share, because this is my private matter, and when I take office as a Member, I also reported it to the KPC. It was all b.p., without speciality, as it was also without particularity this loan you mentioned today as crap. Look, the loan rental was completely transparent. I'm talking about that 450,000-euro famous loan. Is there anything more transparent than publishing it on the iPad? We registered it and published it on Ajeps and now, watch out, but the journalists share the prizes for the evening, at the end of November the journalist Blaž Petkovic even won the award, be careful, for the outstanding achievements because this credit was revealed. How could we expose it if we made it public on Ipes? Apple reads thousands and thousands of users every day. So, please, let's be honest, not malicious and stop dealing with the Slovenian Democratic Party once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. A replica? Procedural? [[advertising from the hall]] We'll do it, we'll do it in a row, colleague Han. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which he will be given the floor by the representative of the proposalr, Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you, President, for your word. The debate was expected and very emotional. Everyone's emotional when they talk about things. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I please speak? But I can be quiet for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u105	Go ahead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you. Really very cultural and dignified your functions and positions. So I understand that today's debate was emotional. Everyone defends their own colors. That's normal, that's legitimate, and that's right. We have repeatedly stressed that the purpose of establishing this commission of inquiry is not political accounting, although you will insist otherwise. The basis for the establishment of this commission of inquiry is a number of indictees that have emerged in the public, the conclusion of the National Assembly of last year, which has already established a number of things and which this National Assembly also confirmed, is the OSCE report on the possibility of irregularities in the electoral campaign this summer. So you could, without being. Finally, the purpose, the public purpose of the Commission of Inquiry, is to call on the Court of Auditors to submit all the documentation of the last elections so that the subject of the investigation can be extended to all, not just one party. I believe that the composed commission will be competent, professional and will come to the bottom and to some final conclusions. But I sincerely hope that these will be positive for everyone, because then we can finally stop throwing each other's Cokes under bicycles and stop on the basis of, basically, as a fellow leftist, a penny. But if they are true, then the customers actually put us in an unequal position because some have access to more, others have no access at all, and the result of the elections may become distorted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? Before I open it, it's just a warning. If a representative of the motioner Robert Pavšič wants to discuss the matter, I also ask him to apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. And now we're starting our application. We've got four registered. Everyone gets five minutes. The first one is Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I followed some of this debate in the hall, something outside the hall, and somehow it seemed to me that it would go this way, for its own sake, and also expected. I would like to point out and point out once again when we mention the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service – the Legislative and Legal Service gives its opinion, its views and views on this and it is up to us to take these warnings into account. In the final stage, the Legislative and Legal Service today also delivered another opinion on one initiative to call for a referendum. I hope and believe that as we refer to him in the case of this commission of inquiry, we will rely entirely on him in the event of this referendum. For those of you who have not had the opportunity to read the opinions of the Legal and Legislative Service on the Consultative Referendum on Migration, I repeat, the Legislative and Legal Service says that we cannot present it. So I believe that we will all somehow internalise this opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. If I go back to the topic that we have today — if we leave a little bit at the edge of the Legislative and Legal Service — the Commission of Inquiry, as it was said, cannot previously interfere with the competence of other institutions, not at all with other powers, and can only move within it within the framework of the determination of political responsibility. And, as it is said, this is the work of the National Assembly, if we, as Members, so decide. And that is, after all, the work of the public during the elections, when public opinion is determined, especially when we all go to the polls or stay at home, because we feel like we have no connection, or because we feel that it is perfectly okay, and if we are at home, it will not have a significant impact on the way we live. I mentioned earlier and will mention once again that this issue or this issue of financing political parties, whether within or from Slovenia, is very interesting and important for the existence, stability and prospects of our country's development, our political system also in the future. Therefore, he cannot be taken with his left hand, nor can he be reduced to just who is to blame, who is to blame, who has done something, who has not done something. I see it, and I would like everyone to look at it or understand it very widely from the perspective of the implications it has for our political future in view of our country. Maybe it doesn't make sense that I'm also touching certain things that you've pointed out, various excuses and the like, credits have been, they haven't been, it's all right, if the loan is all right, then you probably won't go back and so on. I will say so, our society is developing, social networks are developing, there are many things that the legislator, when drafting the Political Parties Act, could not have foreseen. And in this process, it is our job to replace all these phenomena, when we find that they are going in the wrong direction, in the right way. Indeed, there are no unknown circumstances in which we know that the impact of individual countries on elections in other countries has taken place abroad. I wouldn't want anything like this to happen in Slovenia, because it's not good for anyone. Especially not for Slovenia, because we know that as a country we are small, capital less important or weaker than a larger one, much more on the travesty, and that we can also do a lot of screeching. So it's not good and it's out of place. I would also like this investigation to have a legislative response to follow some of the recommendations, as well as changes in the meaning of legislation in this area, to put us in such a framework that such anomalies, such derogations, presumed or inconceivable, could not occur. This seems to me to be the most important thing, but the rest is also a little show for the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word, Member Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Vice President. Maybe I'll discuss it the other way around. First, one who claims that the Commission of Inquiry is not politically motivated is simply lying. Every commission of inquiry that we set up in this House is politically motivated to try, in a way, another political option, to get on your knees. If anyone thinks that some great truths are found here and so on, then it is evident that he is not really in politics for long. That's the first thing. That's another thing. You know, I know politics is one of the most hated jobs in this country. But without politics, some things just don't work. We have democracy, and democracy stops. We just want to go to democracy without money, without support. And then there's these and different visions. And now, my dear, we can fight here, which is fairer, which has few sins and so on. Every customer takes advantage of their influence, I'll say, one piece of it so they can get people to get votes. No one's going to tell me that Levice doesn't do stories, maybe without money, they say, but, say, I'm going to wear a red star, that was exactly your political pear, sorry, someone had to pay for it so that you could sing there. You're an MP today. Now, to tell the Social Democrats that we have credits and that we are in charge, yes, my dears, when you go through twelve, fifteen, twenty elections, and we all know what a long time we have in politics that elections stand, it is said that credit must be taken. Which party is not in charge of this moment when it went through local elections this year, through national elections, whether it was stealing or not normally financed or something in this country is really wrong. Look, I'm just gonna say one person, but I can count a little. Every mail I put on my mail, I know how much it costs, and you can't give it to 2,000 homes for 500 euros. It'll cost you. But one doesn't have mail or the other and so on. All of us who have been in politics for a long time know that it costs something. And the client needs to be credited. Now, whether it's being properly credited or not, that's another thing, but it's going to be in a way that those services that we just have to figure out quickly. Second. The fact that we are playing demagogy, I am talking about all politics, even to ourselves – legal persons must not finance political parties. My dears, it would be much fairer if it were written that she gave a legal person, I don't know, a company called Telekom Levici 5,000, us 10,000, SDS 20,000, and that this would be clearly written so that people would know. But it's not like it's being financed in secret and in one way or another. And one more thing, I know it's easier to start a new client, you don't have any sins to back up, it's like a bankruptcy firm, you let a company go bankrupt, you're gonna start a new one tomorrow, you're not guilty, you just haven't paid off the poofs. Social Democrats have a long tradition, we have many sins, we have many sins, but we have gone through all the elections, and that is why we are also accredited because we went through European elections, through local elections, because we have so many people and so many people. I'm not embarrassed that we're pompous. It would be embarrassing for all these local elections, the state-run elections, to have a lot of money in all these matters. Then something's wrong. [[advertising from the hall]] I mean, if you were a little quiet, it would be really good. [[advertising from the hall]] Then Logar spoke, then I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u111	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u112	I just want to say that we in this country will have to think about how we will also be able to finance politics in a fair, transparent way. Since politics must be financed transparently and also from the state budget, then there will be no problems. Otherwise, each party takes advantage of its position, one in such a way, the other in such a way, the third in such a way. Now, who paid someone in the south and so on, it's not right to talk like that, because you believe that we all have information for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic will be given the floor next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. The discussion also mentioned our client in this context that some economist in a restaurant everything that happens, he pays the bills for the customer Desus. With all my responsibility, I'm saying that's not true. It's just some sort of hint to get attention somewhere else. Before the Commission of Inquiry starts its work, I would like to make a recommendation to review all the accounting, audit reports that have been made. And maybe if you don't know how the Court of Auditors is doing its case, let me say that every bill it takes as an example is examined by the client and checked by the issuer. And even though a newspaper gave some discount to the elections, the Court of Auditors orders that these funds be contaminated for humanitarian purposes. This is what I propose, not only for the 2014 European elections, the 2014 national elections, the 2014 local elections, but also for the 2014 business of the parties and, last but not least, the 2018 state-election review. Just as our client received it, I believe other parties have received it. The law, the legislation on financing political parties and electoral campaigns is quite clear. It is simply not possible to rent credits except for Slovenian banks or post offices. And everything else is out of the question. I am also surprised when colleague Han earlier said that each party was exploiting its influence. Unfortunately, obviously in our party, Desus, we have no way of exploiting our influence. And let me just say that Desus really has credits and has run these elections on account of four years of savings in all our 186 municipalities we have. But all I'm trying to say is, somehow I didn't agree to some investigative committee. However, if all of this is true, some of the clues that have been expressed here really suggest that this is done thoroughly and that these reports are also made public. Apparently, we live here together, but everyone's reading something their own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I give my word to the last debater, Ambassador Dr. Franz Trček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u116	Gee, I'm a little worried about all your credits. I hope they're not in Swiss. Frankly, you know that making elections and politics also with relatively little money. [[advertising from the hall]] If you were still as pretty as Han Good, a joke aside. If you're your own best jumbo poster. We're going to be a serious political country when you don't really need all these stunts and credits. I didn't have any jumbo credits after Maribor. All right, Pojbiè, make fun of them, rent a bus, come on, okay. I was my own jumbo poster. I walked around Maribor for 14 days and talked to people. I can also say that if we go to count as a Member, that we are the most serious party here, with at least the pennies the most effect achieved. It wouldn't be bad for Levi to take over the finance ministry in due course. It's not necessarily that he's a finance minister, because we see that we're not doing very well. Some story my colleague Han wrote is probably true, I tell them the numberology, because some expert with a long internship in the National Assembly said the LDS never failed, only changed the names. You must have been thinking about them, not the Left. If we're going to the Red Star, we've done free advertising for you here, but since you're so pompous, we haven't shown you the bill. But if we're serious, we know we're in trouble. Citizens and citizens should also ask themselves whether they trust a closer politician or one who is cheaper, for example, as they decided in Cyprus between Wonderland and something else. Then there may be parties in Parliament who do not cry in such debates about how pompous they are, and how happy they are that they are pompous. I don't know if it's a good message, I don't know, Han, my ten-year-old daughter probably won't vote for SD, given your statement. We also need to get serious about poofs talking about why you take pouf, for what purpose, with what multiplier. We will have two very similar investigative committees. Dutb, who has before the story, I said that this is a river of transition before the story of a privatisation, then some European bureaucrats hold us on the calf, and on the other hand what some serious state should never have, what Jani mentioned earlier. Americans have been working for almost two years now on what, how, whether there's gold rain. Spiegel doesn't let something out just like Trump, they have a little more serious country in Germany. It's coming from somewhere. And also this kind of story, we're talking about, of course, all of these things are politically motivated. I agree with Han here. We are talking about, as I said before, whether we are going in the direction of a society where politics will be intertwined with crime, because even at some point we will not know who it is, whether we are going in the direction of some normalisation of society or going in the direction of a society where some part of the political right spectrum wants to go back into some one-party system, almost – then I wonder why I signed all those petitions as a student, why I stood in the rain for JBTZ and so on – whether we will go in the direction of society as we say the Constitution. That's basically what we're talking about. I know that a certain part of the political spectrum wants a story that is similar, but if you want, Hungary, Serbia, Albania and so on, because we currently have almost a one-party story in power. I personally represent another political option because I know I'm so old, but I'm not nostalgic about it, but I'm not saying it's not good and it's not okay. That's what we're talking about here after all. Of course, it is up to those of you who will be on the committee itself, how this story will succeed – politically motivated but not politically abused, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on Parliamentary Inquiry, so I note that the Parliamentary Assembly has ordered a Parliamentary Inquiry to establish and assess the factual situation for the determination of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of having an influence on the alleged laundering of money in the New Credit Bank of Maribor, d.d., by foreign nationals and related legal and natural persons, and to establish and assess the factual situation for determining the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of unlawful financing of the political party of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the suspicion of the operation of media publishers owned by that political party and its officials and members and associated legal and natural persons, by means of the purpose of unlawful financing of the electoral campaign for the early election of members of the National Assembly in 2018 and for any amendment of the applicable legislation relating to the prevention of the financing of the parties to the campaign and the financing of the public of the campaign. The contents of the parliamentary inquiry request are defined in the record of the requirement of 18. 12. 2018 and in the act of order of Parliamentary investigation of 18 July 2018. 12. 2018, which you have received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it as soon as possible to the Council. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on the organization and financing of cultivation and education. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Tomaž Lisc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, other representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues, all together a nice greeting! The question has been asked several times today. Are we going in the right direction as defined by the Constitution? The constitution I have before us. In the SDS Group, we certainly want to work in accordance with the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, so today we have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education proposing the application of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which I hope you have also read, of 4. 12. 2014 requiring the abolition of anti-constitutionality by discriminatory financing of private primary schools implementing publicly applicable programmes for compulsory children. On 4 December 2014, the Constitutional Court decided that the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to public-based primary education programmes was inconsistent with the Constitution and provided that the National Assembly of the Constitution established should abolish it within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. So, the decision of the Constitutional Court, December 2014. Date of removal: one year. Start of 2016. We have a constitutional day ahead of us. December. We have a law before us that solves the Constitutional Court's decision. And today we are 20 December 2018. After the previous Government, the previous district minister in this area did nothing for a year to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision, we introduced law in the SDS Group. The government's opinion of the day, that is 15. 12. almost exactly four years ago, there was, yes, we know that before the expiry of the deadline of one year given to us by the Constitutional Court, but we will prepare a system law and not also consider the found non-compliance with the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, but nothing happened. The emissary group then passed the law the second time. The same answer – we will draw up a system law. We've been waiting. Nothing happened. Then, for the third time, we introduced the law into the Slovenian Democratic Party. Nothing happened. Then came the intervention of Minister of Education, Science and Sport of Maja Makovec Brenčič and the coalition to give its minister the advantage over respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And since this government has done nothing at the beginning of this mandate, we have introduced a law in the parliamentary group for the fourth time that we want to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, we have 4 years ahead of us of human rights violations by parties on the left of the centre and the left, which, while stressing the importance of human rights, violate a number of human rights. Let me remind you in the introduction that every time ministers and the Presidents of the Government swear here, "I will respect the constitutional order." [[…]] And respect for the constitutional order begins with respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court. But, look at the fraction, while this government coalition, before the signing of the Constitutional Court decision on deleted persons is dried, introduces the law into the National Assembly because it wants to comply with this decision and, on the other hand, a certain part of the population of this country has been waiting for four years to respect human rights or to comply with the Constitutional Court decision. Clearly, then, in this mandate, even in the opinion of the Government, six parties to the coalition do not wish to respect the Constitution solely for one reason – ideological. More on this, because we are likely to hear again today about the important financial implications, how we promised the Vatican representatives everything, and we did nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be up to two today's vote whether the Members will respect the Constitution or not. And today's vote also depends on the behaviour of the SDS party in the course of tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikal, for the introduction of the opinion of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u120	Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the opportunity for the Government to present its opinion on the novel Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined and opposed that law. In fact, it is an identical law, as it was introduced in 2015, 2016, 2017, and the National Assembly has repeatedly rejected this amendment of the law. I would like to highlight a few things here in this opinion. For the first time, private education was established or regulated in the Republic of Slovenia in 1996. It was governed by the Constitution, guided by the General Convention on Human Rights, guided by the Convention on the Rights of the Child and so on. In short, all international binding legal instruments. Private education in Slovenia is arranged in such a way that it is intended primarily for the enrichment of Slovenian school space. That's his key purpose. Because of the rich selection, rich in content, if you want, diversity and in this way also software complements school space. At that time, in 1996, private education and kindergartens were regulated by 85% of the public funds paid to the student and the costs paid to the student by public schools. This was the 1996 regulation. Of course, social conditions have also changed in the meantime. A number of changes have changed, and the issue of public-private relations is being updated again and again. In recent times, we have quite a few studies, not so few, which actually point us to the fact that the relationship between public and private education needs to be very well thought out, and, above all, always to be very subtle in regulating it. But it has to be, and this comes from both Unesco and OECD studies, always arranged comprehensively. In doing so, it is important that we look at what is the tradition of a school system, how the individual school system has evolved, to take into account all the factors that in one way or another affect the development of private education in a country. In addition, these studies highlight one more point: that the big question is, in fact, the research question which school is considered to be private at all. What is it, is it private with regard to school management, is it public resources, public or private resources, or is it based on ownership of premises? What, in fact, is that criterion that one school does privately and another publicly? For this reason, once again, it is necessary to address this area in a broader way and, of course, with solutions that will be integrated. For this reason, I would like to point out that the Government has been working from day one, this government, to regulate this law. We all know how difficult matter is, not least because of the political relations, the weight ratios in this House. However, in private schools it is necessary to take into account elements such as the adoption of programmes, the implementation and quality assurance of programmes, the entry into the register, the provision of staffing and material conditions and so on and so on. According to the local word, a comprehensive arrangement is needed. If you don't mind if I finish. The government is absolutely committed to continuing its activities and, of course, trying to find a comprehensive solution, I think right at the beginning of next year, and certainly by the beginning of the next school year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, MEP Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Many novels of the Law on the Reorganisation and Financing of Education and Education have been introduced several times into the parliamentary procedure. Some are solely for the purpose of implementing the 2014 Constitutional Decision, which is understood by the parliamentary groups in their own way. Some, however, have been introduced on the basis of a broader reflection and development concept, which, in addition to the constitutional decision, has also referred to the perplexity of today. And this mystery is how, with a view to promoting quality public education, it is fair to unlock public and private education and to give private initiatives in the spirit of free education a welcome place that complements and enriches a rich school space. To avoid any confusion, this has, of course, enabled the proposal for a law from the previous term of office prepared by the former Minister of Education. The excessive political upheaval and disagreements unfortunately resulted in the conclusion that the proposal was not adopted. Greater political will, dear citizens and citizens, in order to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, has simply not been the case. It wasn't there. Ideological and conceptual trenches were simply too deep. And that is only because it seems that the political structure of the established parties is still too handy and present. And let's lighten up a little memory back so that we can better understand where we are today. In 2014, the Constitutional Court decided that the right to attend a compulsory public programme free of charge in private primary schools does not require the State to finance the implementation of extended programmes with which private schools pursue their partisan interests. However, it is necessary to fully finance the mandatory part of the programme as it is uniformly determined by its content for all operators. This is the subject of paragraph 25 of the Constitutional Decision. The Constitutional Court thus merely, knows or does not know, set a gap between the mandatory and the extended programme. There are, unfortunately, different interpretations of where to look for these programs and what their content is. The Basic School Act will be the right answer to this question. The Legislative and Legal Service has already stated on several occasions that the solution we wanted to eliminate is a different amount of funding for the compulsory part of private school programmes, in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. This is also more than clear from her last opinion of 2. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It states that the decision cannot only be implemented in such a way as to ensure full funding for the entire programme. This would include such full funding for the compulsory part of the programme which was subject to a constitutional review and also full funding for the extended programme, which was not decided by the Constitutional Court in 2014. This is exactly what the SDS colleagues are proposing today, for the fifth time in a row. At the same time, in the same breath, they forget that their solution would not completely eliminate alleged discrimination. Private schools would still be able to charge tuition to their parents for a fully funded programme, as this allows them to do so under the law in force. Is that fair? What further cheers us today is that the Minister of Education has taken a more decisive step towards solving the problem. From the initial statements that resolving this issue does not come as a priority, we are hearing today that it is necessary to resolve any decision of the Constitutional Court in order to act as the coalition will order it and that it has at least three models of solutions prepared. We can be pleased that Mr Pikalo, in his capacity as Minister, has a responsible and more responsible approach to the resolution of the Constitutional Court's decision, as he had before. Therefore, the honourable Minister, colleagues and fellow Members, the SMC still has the political will to finally resolve this issue, even though there may be some opinions that you are not willing and that it will not. However, the timing of individual decisions is irrelevant for us, as we should then first in 1998 in Ankara and resolve the oldest unfulfilled decision and then after the time frame of the decision. This argument makes it very difficult to identify ourselves in the SMC. In the SMC Group in the future, we will support all those solutions that are and will be constitutionally consistent on the issue of private school funding. We will also support all other solutions that will address aspects of ensuring greater quality of both parts of our education, public and private. In fact, the proposals for solutions are in hand, and the question is whether political will is enough for this to happen this time. This will certainly be evident from today's debate. In the SMC Group of Members, we firmly believe that political responsibility lies with all Members and Members of the National Assembly on this subject. We already had a chance to save her. And even if it was lost, the responsibility to resolve the decision does not untie us in the future. We in the SMC will continue to work constructively with the coalition within the framework set by the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Left Party and by the Member of Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have, I think, a fifth attempt by SDS to fund private primary schools. This time, too, there is a clever piare of action to plan to subsist on the basis of an accessible and quality public school system and, of course, to replace it with a private initiative in the educational system. In Levika, we reject any favoritism of private education, so we will vote against this bill. The Constitutional Court decision on the financing of publicly recognised private school programmes is not in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and is not in accordance with the interests of most people in that country. The Constitutional Judges and Judges, of course, have their views, and in this case, they — and this is all before a lonely decision — have taken a small majority of private interest to the detriment of public common interest. The right path is to amend Article 57 of the Constitution and to clearly defend public education. Education and education have been the subject of an extremely negative trend over the past decade to instill private interests in the public good. It is logical that the private owner of the school does not have and cannot have the same interest as the state. Either he wants profit or he wants to include his beliefs in the curriculum in some way, his world views, or he pursues some other, different goal. We know that, with the exception of one exception, private schools are in one way or another connected with the Catholic Church, which, by the way, is the largest land book owner in Slovenia and is by no means one organization that is just poor and needs additional assistance. And since these schools are mostly church schools, they work separately at social level. And a dot. On the other hand, private interest invades the public in the form of so-called cooperation with the economy, which is a neoliberal mantra repeated by the entire political establishment. Students and students are already subject to entrepreneurial content in such and different forms in the earliest years, with socialisation in the form of leniency, the fate of non-permanent and non-typical jobs and neoliberal principles, in accordance with the principle, each individual is an entrepreneur. And so each individual is also guilty of his or her fate, guilty if he or she is unemployed or underpaid. Furthermore, private schools select their students selectively. This means that private school has the right to refuse a child. But public primary school has to accept everyone. In addition, the law in question allows private schools, despite state funding, to charge their parents with tuition and, of course, do not do so in public schools. This is important for ensuring social equality and equality. In Slovenia, according to an international study on the literacy of PIRLS, the differences between children with higher socio-economic status and those with poor socio-economic status have increased by about one third in reading literacy over the last 15 years. In short, only public and only public schools are guaranteed a secular curriculum and under all equal conditions accessible education. Of course, public school also deserves some criticism, but it is the key to improving it, not to own it with private schools. And what does an additional 15% of the funding for private schools implementing public programmes mean? Fully funded private schools will also be able to achieve superstandard education through a small contribution from parents, leading in the long term to the predominance of private education over public and such education is not universally available, but is elitist and selective on the basis of property, which strengthens class divisions in society, as we get one school system for the poor and the other for the rich. In the meantime, let us not forget that public education is absolutely undernourished due to austerity measures and belt tightening. And if anyone does, then we have to help public education financially to get him on his feet. We must make use of the favourable public financial situation to strengthen the public school system, but we must not allow private schools to paralyse these same resources. What the right hand proposes today is a clear neo-liberal attack on public education, which leads to increasing commercialisation, increasingly poor quality and increasing inequality in society. Universal access to quality education is crucial as the school system represents one of the most egalitarian mechanisms in society, which is hampered by such and different contradictions and inequalities. It enables social mobility and eliminates the differences in social benefits and disadvantages that each is given at birth. In order to equalise differences and equal opportunities, the school system has to work from primary school education onward, rather than strengthening and deepening this gap, as a result of the 100 % funding of publicly applicable programmes in private schools. Education and knowledge must be accessible to all equally, since intellectual heritage is the property of all mankind. At the same time, from a development perspective, quality and accessible public education is an alternative to peripheral underdevelopment, where, through privatisation, private interest in public and structural reforms, all the last governments are taking us without exception. Therefore, in Levica we reject the SDS proposal, which has one purpose, to exert pressure on the current government and to measure some media space, while continuing the neoliberal attack on public education. In order to achieve a common public interest, and this is an easy, quality and accessible public education for all, we propose that the will of the Constitutional Court be satisfied with the amendment of Article 57 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Ambassador Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u126	Dear Mr. Minister, President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The proposed amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education has been discussed for the fourth time in such a form, not on the proposal of the Government or the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, as we would normally expect, but on the proposal of the opposition. In Novi Slovenije, we have repeatedly pointed out the urgent amendment of the law, since it is the fifth year since the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In the constitutional assessment procedure, it decided that the first sentence of Article 86, second paragraph, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has provided that the Consulate of the State must abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Today we have heard a lot of good things about the fact that deadlines do not have to be respected, but one year after the decision was made, we should do so. A lot has been going on in this area lately, and nothing has happened. We are still in an unconstitutional position, and this responsibility is attributed directly to Dr. Mir Cerar, the former President of the Government and also to the professor of constitutional law, and now to the current Prime Minister, Marjan Sarc, for several months now. Parents have the right under the Constitution to choose primary education for their children in a public or private school which implements a publicly applicable primary school programme or as a home education. With the state's attitude towards private education, as Levica wishes to show, the parent's right to choose how to train their children is substantially impaired. The fact is that only one of the private public school providers receives 100% co-financing, i.e. the same as state schools and only 85% co-financing. Let us stress that it is a means to provide salaries for teachers and other personal benefits and to cover the material costs of activities necessary to carry out educational activities. The Constitutional Court explicitly stated that the decision does not relate to investment, investment maintenance and equipment and that it does not refer to the specific content offered by private primary schools, such as confessional education and others. The Decision on non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia refers solely and exclusively to the different state funding of compulsory public school programmes in different schools, public and private, and not to private school funding as such, only to the financing of programmes. In Novi Slovenije we are aware that private schools are an asset for Slovenian school space. They provide choices, improve the quality of education, promote healthy competitiveness and, above all, are cheaper for the country than state schools. Perhaps that is what some of you respected colleagues know because your children also attend these schools. The opinion of this government, of course, remains unchanged again. It considers that it is only a partial regulation of the financing of private schools and that this area needs to be fully regulated. We've heard it so many times. In doing so, let us point out that the Constitutional Decision also speaks only of a certain specific non-compliance that needs to be addressed and should therefore be the aim of the Government in the first place to remove this non-compliance and then to address the remaining changes and to supplement the law. Indeed, in 2017, the Government of Mira Cerar prepared a proposal to amend the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which is intended to eliminate the finding of non-compliance, but the proposal did not fully follow the decision of the Constitutional Court and was therefore not adopted. You still remember how we bid, whether it's 60 percent co-financing, or 80, or 85, 100 said the Constitutional Court, it should be. Today, the new government and the new Minister of Education, Science and Sport are being tested. Apparently, there won't be much attention this time either. Although some promises were made on the next school year, next time, we will fully arrange Unfortunately we have heard this many times before, so it is hard to believe. [[…]] Indeed, we have a major problem in our country with the elimination of disagreements with the Constitution, since today's law is not the only one waiting for the goodwill and interest of the National Assembly to end the disharmony. Members of New Slovenia – the novel of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education supports Christian Democrats. However, we ask the Government when it will really end this disagreement with the Constitution. It is time for the President of the Government to avoid a constitutional charge, to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision to correct the injustices of schoolchildren and their parents, otherwise we consider them to be second-rate citizens, before the state, before the constitution, and before the law we must all be equal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Reich will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u128	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At Alenka Bratušek, we have already fought in the previous term in the National Assembly to respect the Constitutional Court's decision on the equalisation of funding for public and private schools. We have proposed that we respect the Constitutional Court's decision by amending the Constitution and making it clear what it actually says is that the State must finance public primary schools and private primary schools only if it so wishes. In Slovenia primary education is provided to everyone. There will always be room for every child in public primary school. There are also parents who feel that it is better if their child attends a private primary school. Which, of course, is their decision and their justice. We can't deny it. This is why the country is already funding public programmes to private schools, 85% of their value. Private schools with concessions have a public primary school programme funded by 100%. But if the school is private, why should the state even fund it? The Constitution requires that primary education be organised in such a way as to enable parents to include their children in a publicly valid primary school programme. When the state finances public primary education, it fulfils its duty. We're pretty sure about that in the SAB party. The Constitutional Court feels differently. The decision adopted in 2013 decided that the State must finance private schools in the same proportion as public primary schools. We simply have to challenge this decision. It not only affects the financing of education, but also the structure of Slovenian society. Promoting private companies, schools with state money, is an introduction to the distribution of the company. Equal starting points for all who have been successfully provided by public primary schools so far will be disrupted. This decision of the Court is particularly necessary because it has taken too little account of the fact that there is an important difference between public and private schools. In a public school, every child has a place, and private schools can make their own decisions as to who is allowed and who is not. Therefore, if 100 % of private schools are to be financed by the State, they should also be subject to 100 % of the same entry conditions as in public primary schools. The equalisation of funding for publicly recognised content from the current 85% to 100% is unacceptable. In the long run, it leads to the impoverishment of the network of public primary schools. When these are impoverished, private primary schools, which set their own enrollment restrictions, may only accept privileged students. In public institutions, there will be only those without any privileges. No children are privileged in today's school funding at the time of admission. The Slovenian company, however, is one of the least dispersed. Therefore, we do not support the SDS proposal in the SAB party. We are in favour of making it clear in Article 57 of the Constitution that the State is obliged to finance only public schools and private schools only if it so wishes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you, Chairman. Minister or secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The previous term of office of the National Assembly was very much marked by the subject of private education funding. Several of the same proposals that we have on the table today have been discussed. On the other hand, we also had an attempt to amend the Constitution and the Government's proposal for a law. The latter, with the proposed amendment to Article 86, was very close to our vision of the distinction between public and private. And as you may recall, the four votes of Members and Members have been lost in order for the law to be adopted. Thus, we are again at the beginning of the road today, with it being clear that the decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected. But as you know, we have two constitutional decisions dealing with private education funding. One said that the legislator's decision to finance the state as a whole is only a public school where all parents can enter their children into the field of assessment and therefore it is not contrary to the Constitution. The second, but a newer decision has placed a clear distinction between the mandatory and extended work of the programme within the framework of publicly recognised and existing primary school programmes, following efforts to follow the new regulation of Article 86 of the Act. The extended programme should be financed at the discretion of the legislator. Various options have emerged in this work. In the end, none of these were adopted. It is clear from the views and debate of our Members, Members of Desus' previous term of office, that we, too, cannot vote today that the law is suitable for further consideration. The Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia is committed to maintaining public education. We understand public education as a value. It is crucial that everyone is provided with a primary level of education. In our parliamentary group, we do not object to restricting the choice of an educational institution to ensure that primary education is obtained only in a public institution if private schools exist. However, we do not agree that private education should be financed in full and in general, all from public money. We ask ourselves what is the extent of the content and quality of education prescribed not only by law but also by constitutional obligation if it is obtained outside a public school. According to our assessment, it should be the same by content and equivalent by level. It is not necessary, however, that private schools provide an equally high educational standard. There are also repeated dilemmas or questions where the security guards of private institutions have the same opportunities and equal access to knowledge as is possible for pupils in public primary schools. The public network of schools is well placed with us, both in terms of local coverage and to a greater extent in terms of curricula and programmes. Public schools must be and are also available to all children, which is not applicable to private schools. Private schools can choose their students and make their choices on the basis of different criteria. However, a public primary school must accept every compulsory school child. It is also very unlikely that we will receive a private school in Osilnica, where in Goričkem or elsewhere in the forgotten part of Slovenia. This is the answer to a key question about what private schools or their founders are aiming at. Furthermore, it is not insignificant to conclude that public school is among the most basic and most powerful levers of the fight to bring about social inequality. Private schools can also be established only for specific populations, for example, on the basis of certain views, beliefs or even elite groups. Also, in the light of international comparisons, we cannot accept the full funding of private schools. The International Convention does not commit to financing private schools. However, practice in other European countries shows that funding for private schools ranges from 100 per cent to zero funding, with current co-financing in Slovenia above the European average. In Desus, we recognize that solutions are not as simple as they seem at first sight, because we have not least already escaped school systems, but, on the other hand, we also need to follow the time dimensions and social conditions and needs in the educational field. In order to end this saga once and for all, as is necessary and without further constitutional additions, we believe in our parliamentary group that we might not only be talking about reforming this law, but that it would be good to open another law, such as the Basic School Act. Therefore, today's proposal cannot be supported by Members of Desus. However, as I have heard, you have in your goal, even the coalition says that we will get a proposal on the table as soon as possible, which we will gladly support in the coalition and continue to coordinate with the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Ambassador Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Law on Financing for Education and Education in Article 86 provides that a private school implementing a public programme for the implementation of this scheme shall be provided with 85% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme. This has been the case since 1996. Private schools with concessions, once again, this means that they are implementing a publicly applicable programme which was set up before that date and co-financed by a hundred percent, i.e. the programme is co-financed by a hundred percent. I can see that there are a few of us here or you don't understand what co-financing means. Only the program is financed, all the other things, spaces, construction and so on, private schools are financed by themselves, and the public, of course, is not. So, schools that were established before 1996, private schools, only one is, Waldorf School Ljubljana, co-financed by a hundred percent. While the Waldorf School of Maribor is the same school as in Ljubljana, its co-financing programme is 85% because it was established later. 57. Article 57 of the Constitution states what some of you have already said today that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. So there's a bunch of positions here that are very problematic. Those who say that primary education in private schools should not be financed by public funds. Of course you can, the constitution talks about it. It can't be, it has to be because it's mandatory. In the Constitutional Court’s constitutionality assessment procedure in the work relating to these public-level primary education programmes, it was found that Article 86(2), which I had previously stated, was inconsistent with the Constitution. It decided that the constitutionality established by the National Assembly should be abolished within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal. 4. 12. In 2014, the Constitutional Court issued a decision stating, inter alia, that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 57 I read to you, the Constitution, primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. Since it is not only the pupils themselves who benefit from compulsory basic education but also the basic education provided for public service, the Constitution also provided for its public funding. By doing so, she guaranteed the pupils the right to free compulsory primary education. Decision issued 4. 12. 2014 and the Constitutional Court have established that it must, therefore, abolish the anti-constitutionality established within one year of publication. At the time of the decision, the government had a coalition of SMC, SD and Desus, headed by Dr. Miro Cerar's lawyer. Dr Cerar also visited the Office of St. Stanislav, where elementary school and high school work with concessions, and promised to regulate this area. In one year, as required by the Constitutional Decision, nothing has happened and therefore the SDS Group has first tabled a bill to regulate this area in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which is very clear and does not need any formalisation of the systemic and integrated solution that you are talking about. There's a very clear way to go, and that's it. Then Minister of Education Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič said, you filed too quickly, we have one year, we will prepare system solutions for private primary education. Members of the coalition voted against the Constitutional Court's decision for the first time. Even after one, two years, we have not received a solution proposal, but in 2017, three years after the Constitutional Court's decision, with a solution that was not harmonised by the coalition Members, and so the law fell, that is to say, their coalition. The decision of the Constitutional Court is clear and diverse and does not need to be played. The coalition parties in the previous composition of the SMC, SD and Desus wanted to play the Constitutional Court's decision and make some minimum arrangements, but not as required by the Constitutional Court. In short, not to admit to schools with city concessions, which they're on the verge of stopping. In the debates on this issue, we have also heard fears that the promotion of schools with concessions threatens public education. My colleague talked about it before me today, too. Another ridiculous argument. Public schools account for 99%, less than 1% of private schools with concessions. These few schools, which are only 6 primary schools, which are attended by 200 children, are at risk in your opinion 772 public schools, 400 plus branches, 772 schools, with 177 thousand children. So 200 children who will receive additional co-financing of their program, which is equal to 177 000 children in public schools, are at risk of your 177 thousand children or 772 primary schools. In addition, the law provides that a private school cannot be established where the existence of a public school is threatened, so there are no private schools in smaller places, as my colleague has already found. The former President of the Constitutional Court, Miroslav Mozetič, said that the policy postpones the Constitutional Court's decision because it disagrees with them, which is very problematic for him and for the rule of law, especially if non-implementation is conditioned politically or ideologically. He warned that politics in recent years, but instead of the Prime Minister, Dr Cerar, we simply postponed the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decisions. The late President of the Constitutional Court, Jadranka Sovdat, also assured him that if the legislator was unable to resolve matters within four years, it would likely be resolved by the Constitutional Court in the future. The current Minister of Education, Dr. Pikalo, said it was a political decision. In doing so, he was probably referring primarily to his SD client, who appears to have the biggest problem with 100 % co-financing of the public programme in schools with concessions. We're gonna listen again and we're already listening to you sort things out comprehensively and systematically. Desus, SMC and SD have been doing whole and systemically for several years, and our systems are falling apart — health and justice and education. Now this train of systemic solutions is joined by the List of Marjan Šarc, and we will probably wait until the last year of the mandate for systemic laws, and then they will fall just like the current lane, as we saw earlier this year, when members of the coalition suddenly had a lot of ideas and would almost save Slovenia in the last month. All the years before, the SDS Group, as well as now at the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly, were marked by populism, candy, and gifts. We propose measures that are the product of analysis. When you find out something's wrong and it doesn't work, you change it as soon as possible, and it doesn't cause any additional damage. Mr Pikalo also said that it is the same marriage as it has been in recent years. Yes, because it cannot be different because it follows a decision of the Constitutional Court, so it can only be identical to the previous proposal. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposed amendment to the Education and Education Financing Act following the 2014 Constitutional Court Decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Ambassador Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! Dear Minister, colleagues and others present! I'd like to ask myself a question first. Why do we really want a public primary school? Because it allows all children quality and free education. We want to protect public primary education because we are solidarity because Slovenia is a social country where everyone has the same opportunities. This is why public primary education, which is equally accessible to all and does not create any differences, should be promoted. On the other hand, private primary education is targeted at a specific target group and thus does not provide entry for all pupils, depending on nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, social position, disability or any other personal situation. We find it useful to promote public primary education. This is accessible to all and not to the choice of pupils according to certain criteria and ensures quality general education for the whole population. Public primary schools must be plural, valuablely neutral and must form the basis for living in a solidarity, tolerance and just society. Both the European Court of Human Rights and the European Commission on Human Rights have confirmed that States are not obliged to subsidise private educational institutions. No international document obliges the State to co-finance private education and even less determines the level of such funding. The vast majority of the countries of the European Union provide private education with less financial support than public education. It is the duty of the State to organise primary education in a way that will enable parents to fulfil the obligation that their children should be included in a publicly applicable primary school programme. Private primary schools, through their educational approaches, innovative practices and substantive differences, enrich, complement and strengthen school space, but must not endanger public primary education that is accessible to all pupils. A private elementary school does not have the obligation to accept everything, so it can choose who it will accept. Private primary education has the right to choose. By establishing a border between private and public primary education, we avoid the consequences that private primary education can have. These are, for example, elitism and deepening social inequality. In addition, full funding will be provided to private primary schools with parental support, which leads in the long term to the dominance of private education over public education, since the private school always has at least two regular sources of funding, private and public. However, public school funding depends only on public funding. We are a social state that recognizes its future in children, so it is right for the state to provide an educational system that enables all children to have as much education as possible. It is important to ensure that primary school does not become a business. The primary exclusive purpose of the school space is to educate children. In the Parliamentary Group, Lista Marjan Šarca, the draft law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education cannot be supported in the proposed form, as it selects too few articles of the law in order to fully implement the solutions offered by the competent ministry. We certainly respect the constitutional decision, and therefore we believe that the country should provide 100 % of its co-financing to private primary schools for the implementation of the compulsory part of the programme which has gained public validity, as decided by the Constitutional Court. It is true, however, that the financing of the extended programme requires a little more political effort to come together to an appropriate solution that will enable the smooth education of our youngest. Let me conclude with the idea that this is just another populism gesture by the proposer. If it were indeed in his interest to implement the constitutional decision and to be honest about its intentions, he would not have proposed the same proposal more than once.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Ambassador Milan Brglez will present the position of the Polish Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respected and respected! The Polish SDS Group, by re-submitting the proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, has ensured that we have a legal, political and ideological issue before us at the December regular meeting. It is essential to stress that the SDS, in its fourth or fourth amendment to the Government's proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education of 2017, insists, in its fifth attempt since 2015, on the full equalisation of funding and the definitive deletion of the borders between public and private education, as the only consistent and resilient way of implementing the 2014 Constitutional Court decision. The persistent but totally uncoordinated introduction of a bill forcing the SDS to provide a solution to private schools implementing publicly valid educational programmes to ensure the same resources provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme is, in fact, one politically sound objective. This objective is to gradually reduce the decision of the Constitutional Court to the level of the alleged technical guidance and thus prevent an in-depth debate on the relationship between public and private education. Since 1996, when private education has been regulated, we have never really done so, although social circumstances have changed significantly since then, including an increase in the number of private schools and a greater diversity of founders, only one of the factors requiring us to clarify or possibly redefine basic concepts. Respected and respected! In its decision of 4 December 2014, the Constitutional Court ruled that the legal regime restricting the share of co-financing of a public programme in private schools to 85 per cent in non-conformity with the Constitution and imposed on the National Assembly to remedy this unconstitutionality. No matter how many times and with what degree of legal and political creativity we read the reasoning of the Constitutional Court, it cannot be derived from it that the Constitutional Court has ordered the National Assembly to adopt a solution supported by the SDS. There is no such claim in support of the decision of the Constitutional Court. In this way, the Constitutional Court’s decision can be read only with its own political interests by a motivated bill-maker. Indeed, in 2014 the Constitutional Court adopted a decision derogating from the 2001 Constitutional Court finding that, I quote, "the legislator's decision to finance only public schools in which all parents can enter their children is in the field of its assessment and therefore is not contrary to the Constitution." End of quote. Nevertheless, the National Assembly has not lost its right and is not relieved of its duty to seek a solution consistent with Article 57 of the Constitution and other provisions which are, in a more or more general sense, linked to the exercise of the right to education and education, international human rights instruments and European Union legislation. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the second paragraph of Article 15, leaves it to the legislator to prescribe a means of exercising human rights and fundamental freedoms, which also applies to the right to education and education. In fact, the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014 is therefore nothing more than an invitation to the legislator to review and define the relationship between constitutional and international concepts with such a solution and such a substantive justification as to the exercise of the right to primary education, which will be consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact that several routes have already been identified by 2014 which lead to the same undisputed objective, as represented by compliance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, confirms that different constitutional sustainability options are possible. In other words, it is not true that there are no alternatives. It is up to us, as legislative branches of government, to study the constitutional, professional and broader ideological aspects of an individual solution and to try to find political agreement on them. Nor does it argue that there has been no movement in the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision. It is clear from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service prepared for the National Assembly on 2 November this year that the National Assembly has taken an active approach to the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court, in particular in the process of adopting a government proposal for a new Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Although unsuccessful, this procedure has led to a number of possible routes for the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. As a result, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the National Assembly has taken the view that a decision can be implemented in a number of ways, rather than merely by providing a fully funded general public education programme in private schools without a licence. In the Group of Social Democrats, we continue to insist on our permanent and generally well-known position that the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision is not the technical material to be placed at the table as soon as possible. The issue of organisation and funding for education and education is a political and ideological issue concerning the fundamental values of our society and the country. When we face different solutions to address this issue, we really face different views on the importance and function of school and education for the individual and for society and the country. The constitutionally recognised right to education and education, according to which education is free and, at primary level, compulsory and financed from public funds, creates complementary obligations for the country. In view of Article 2 of the Constitution, which clearly defines Slovenia as a social state, it is not a question of whether these obligations are realized by organising a public service and maintaining a public network of primary schools. For us there is no alternative to the public network. Only in this way can the organisation of primary education grant all children the right to education on the basis of the same opportunities as Article 28 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and in fact provide parents with the opportunity to fulfil their obligations regarding the inclusion of children in the primary school programme. The undeniable fact is that there is also a private initiative in the field of education, as this social phenomenon has led to the legal regulation of this area in the mid-1990s. While it is not permissible for the State to prevent the establishment of private schools and thereby to exercise the right of parents to raise children in accordance with its own religious, moral or philosophical beliefs, the European Court of Human Rights has also taken a clear position that the purpose of the right to education does not include the duty of the State to establish or support private schools. In the case of private schools without concession, which implement a publicly applicable programme, there is a specific, complex interface between public and private. Private institutions shall implement a publicly applicable educational programme for which they have been prescribed by law and have successfully challenged the proportion of funding before the Constitutional Court. This complex relationship, despite the private school, cannot be equated with public schools, as is the case with the above-mentioned part of the Constitutional Court decision that it is not possible to make a claim that it follows the content and the legal entities for identical educational institutions. That is why we cannot agree to blackmail with the financing solutions in fact, but also the symbolic alignment of public and private schools. This abuse and the reference to the rights of children is further strongly opposed by the political instrumentalisation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The SDS has already applied the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court in the previous term to the interpretation of the then Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, and has been unsuccessful in doing so. In the current term of office, the abuses of democratic institutions go even further, as the lack of acceptance of the bill we are talking about today has tied to the constitutional indictment of Prime Minister Marjan Sarc. All of this clearly shows that the purpose of the SDS is not to enforce the Constitutional Court’s decision, but rather to fight politically on the shoulders of children and their parents. In the Group of Social Democrats, we remain loyal supporters of public education and strong opponents of attempts to abuse court decisions, especially when they concern the realization of children's rights as the most vulnerable and at the same time promising part of our society. For all these reasons, we will also vote against the conclusion this time that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Proposer, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u138	Thank you. There's obviously nothing new on the left political pole. Ideology still takes precedence over respect for the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, of course, he dares to discredit the one who wishes to respect the Constitutional Court’s decision, which is, once again, for all those who have apparently received written speeches on the plenklist, “the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is in the work relating to the publicly valid primary education programmes, in violation of the Constitution. The National Assembly shall abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia.” I have been in Parliament for several years, and there has never been so much spit by the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and even more by the Constitutional Judges. From the fact that they have no idea what the Constitutional Judges have accepted, from the fact that they need to be replaced or even replaced by the Constitution, because, due to the ideology of the Left, the political half disagrees with the Constitutional Court's decision. The former President and current President of the Constitutional Court were very clear. Mr Mozetič, I quote: “Policy postpones the Constitutional Court ruling because it disagrees with them.” Mrs Jadranka Soldat: "Any unrespected decision of the Constitutional Court violates the principles of the rule of law and the division of power." So much for a start. In short, the problem for you is the fourth attempt by the SDS Group, which does not want to fund a private school 100%, but to implement a clear decision by the Constitutional Court. Which should also be clear to those who have prepared for you plenklists. For four years you have not respected human rights, respectable! While you have taken the deleted two months after the decision of the Constitutional Court and for the sake of ideology have passed the law, now that this ideology prevents you, you reject the adoption of the law, which follows the decision of the Constitutional Court by 100%. Dear Minister, no, this is not a political decision. It's a very simple decision. And it doesn't matter if we have ZOFVI or ZOSN or any other proposal for a law. This time it's a marriage from your department. It's not a political decision. It is only a clear decision whether we respect the Constitution or do not respect it or whether we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court or do not respect them. That's all this is about. In short, it should not be an important topic, but rather the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the decision of the Constitutional Court. Moreover, you say you passed a government law in the previous term, and most were not in favour. And who made up the majority in the previous term? Desus, SD and SMC. You had more than enough votes to take a decision by the Constitutional Court, and you were fighting, bidding, 0.60%, 80%, 100%. And you didn't consider how to find a perimeter of what's in the Constitutional Court's decision, and because of you, the law fell. You cannot say that of the 90 Members, there were 19 SDS Members of Parliament who had fallen by law. As Mrs. Ludmila Novak once said, if you can't count, stop counting. More than that, even more perverse, I will dare say, it was a proposal that you, at the initiative of the Social Democrats, wanted to put through the Constitutional Commission in the parliamentary bench. Because we do not like the decision of the Constitutional Court, and because we cannot quickly replace all constitutional judges we do not like, we will change the constitution. That's what you wanted to do. Read your proposal to the Constitutional Commission. Because of the courage of a minority Member, all of this fell into the water. In order to see you heroes of SD, Desus or as many as two thirds of this National Assembly, you will receive 60 votes in this term, if you are so sure that you need to change the Constitution, to see, to see, to see, to draw from the drawer this act, as you have done before the elections, and to come to the National Assembly, and we will count again in your intention that because you do not like the decisions of the Constitutional Court, you better hit and change the constitution. This, respected and respected, is a typical abuse of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court for the sake of ideology. Now, let me go a little bit further. Minister Pikalo says private education should enrich public space. But look at him, a fellow Member Dr. Brglez says there is no alternative to the public network. There's a deal you need to make inside. You are in favour of a private rich public and your representative says there is no alternative in the public network. So much schizophrenic politics. Dear Minister, since you are not the problem, you were not personally involved in the ministry's work in the previous term. But how many people from the Directorate of Basic Education or how many people from the Ministry have remained the same since December 2015, when the first deadline was over, one year that decisions of the Constitutional Court should be regulated when you fainted and because of ideology you were unable to decide to change the law? And for the second time, the marriage was filed, and for the third time. And when you saw that something had to be done, the former Minister brought to the National Assembly a law that was not in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. And you were also bidding on that law on who would make a larger or slightly larger circuit with regard to the Constitutional Court's decision. At the same time, once again, that you had everything through the Constitutional Commission with pressure on individual Members prepared to change the constitution, where you are proud of ideology, once again, the decision of the Constitutional Court was not liked. And then there was the interpolation, of course you rejected it, because you don't have 60 votes to change the Constitution, but you were 46 to reject the interpolation. And then we can see the demagogies that 100% want to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision is hypocritical. Respected by the SMC, it is a shame to lose words about how you wish to adopt and respect a decision of the Constitutional Court. 36 of you were in the previous term, only to knock on the door of the SDS Group, to immediately consider that this would lead to life, and there was no hero in the SMC Group, which, alone or through a minister, would say, the Constitutional Court's decision must be implemented, amended immediately. No, there weren't so many of you in your pants. Then here you're talking about how customers have a problem. No, you have it, honourable Members of the SMC, along with your predecessors, because for the sake of ideology you do not want to change the law, you refer to ideology. Let me just remind you, Commissioner SMC, Alenka Bratušek and LMŠ, that you are with European liberals, but there was no L in your views from the liberal. A pure revolutionary thought against privacy. Once again, because you don't like the decision, hit it in private. And yes, political responsibility will soon come to those who have come to power in the previous term with concepts such as respect for the rule of law. And these 36 SMC Members in the past mandate and two SMC Members' personal cars in this mandate are still unable or willing to respect the Constitutional Court's decisions, because the rule of law means a lot to you only when you can pursue your interests. Moreover, an SMC member in the position of the Group said: “The time component is not important”. The National Assembly shall remove the irregularity found within one year. So much about how many Members of the most law-abiding country are most unjust in this area. Party Left. Compromise to the public system, unbelievable. Article 57 of the Constitution does not apply to Members of the Left. Otherwise, they are not yet covered by a number of articles of the Constitution and so on. And then we listen: "It's about favouring private education" Where? We have 1% of primary schools, 1% of primary schools. I'll say football, because apparently one of you doesn't understand the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Tell me, where would one football player beat 99 opponents on the other side? Where? And I'd say to the media, one football player poses a threat to all nineies. That's how you act on the ideology of the Constitutional Court's decision. Moreover, in the position of the Left Group, it was said: “The decision of the Constitutional Court is not in the spirit of the Constitution”. Well, that's painful, distinguished representatives of the Left, that's painful. I suggest that tomorrow, according to your position, you propose the dissolution of the Constitutional Court, because if you do not like it, you will say that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not in the spirit of the Constitution. This reminds me of those black and white times when she was a winged woman in power: we are Communists and if we are not Communists, otherwise she cannot be, because we are only Communists. Just public schools. No, Your Honor. What, then, do all countries other than North Korea that allow private schools do wrong? What's wrong with them? What is wrong with our neighbouring countries, which, God forbid, have a private school? And once again, if you don't believe me, ask the minister where private primary schools can be established. Not where the network of public schools is full, but under certain conditions, which are in line with Slovenian legislation. And it was found that this legislation was not inconsistent with the Constitution. Next. A few of you have been troubled, yes, and one former decision in 2014, the Constitutional Judges are a little confused. No, no, this Decision of 2014 is very narrow, it only speaks of publicly applicable programs of private primary schools. And why is this a crucial moment of primary school? Because, under Article 57 of the Constitution, primary school is compulsory. And even with us in the SDS Group, but we think of ourselves as fairly large liberals, we would have a problem if that decision from 2001 or 2011 was adopted because we would say that it could be all private and public. No, no, no. But in the field of public programmes, nothing with equipment, no investments, nothing to know what you're afraid of, but only that the programme determined by the State is equally valuable to a child who goes to a primary school, which is public, and to a primary school, which is private. And we're talking, once again, about primary schools. And once again, for all those who sit on their ears, we are talking about constitutional matter, Article 57. That's why it's hard for me to listen to private schools today. No, private primary schools. That's the point of this marriage. No private kindergartens, no private high school, no private colleges touch on the Organization and Financing of Education and Education Act. I will then come forward again, but really when you listen to such schizophrenic positions in the spirit of defending ideology, in the spirit of opposition to the decision of the Constitutional Court, you ask yourself whether, for the first time, it makes sense to make laws because the coalition rejects them because of ideology, and for the second time, whether it is still worth respecting the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, because the coalition in the spirit of ideology does not respect it. This is a question for every citizen when stopped by police officers on the road or when he gets a violation, when he has to respect the Constitution, laws, regulations, regulations and municipal decisions. What should this ordinary citizen think when he sees that two-thirds of the members of the National Assembly, together with the President of the Government and also the former President of the Government and the former President of the National Assembly, go to the Vatican, they present themselves as losers and how well they will cooperate, how they go to the St. Stanislava and they say we can't sleep because we don't respect the Constitutional Court's decision, and the next day, it strikes the alarm at joy, and on behalf of ideology, we won't respect the law. How should every ordinary citizen tomorrow represent his employee when he waits for what he will do wrong, how he will be punished, and if he knows that elected representatives of the people, Members, we do not respect the highest legal act in this country, and this is the Constitutional Court. Unlike all of you, who would rather change the Constitution than respect the Constitutional Court's decision, we have prepared a new amendment to the law. And yes, honourable Mr Brglez, no, neither the introduction of laws nor the constitutional decision is an abuse of institutions for political struggle, but this is what the constitution says. And I hope you won't stop us from coming to work tomorrow because you'll say we're using institutes that you don't like. In short, today's vote will depend on tomorrow's day as to how we will decide in the SDS Group to proceed further in this political struggle, which left-wing parties are upgrading by disregarding the decisions of the Constitutional Court precisely because of ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now pay attention, because the lithium has changed a little bit. Mr. Jožef Horvat has the floor. You're next, Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Fortunately, I'm running out of time. I'm afraid my feelings will betray me. At two o'clock, I was at the festive session of the Constitutional Court, avoiding the President, the new court, Mr Rajko Prince, to the recent president of Mrs Jadranka Soldat to congratulate them for being ashamed of me, ladies and gentlemen. Because here from the middle to the left this majority is “fragile according to Slovenian constitutionality”. These words aren't mine. The words of Mr Jan Zobc, who you all know well, are the words of the Slovenian Constitution. And what we're listening to today is actually the interpretation of some surrogacy judges, some sort of surrogacy court, who you want to be a doctor when you interpret the Constitutional Court's decision. A thousand and one ways. And let us once invite the Constitutional Judges here to tell us what, for God's sake, they have loved this decision. That's amazing. Look, this is really amazing. Mr. Minister, please, the school question, you will be able to understand it very much. At the latest, by what time, please, until when will you remedy the decision of the Constitutional Court? Day, day, month, month, year, year, year, year. From this answer, which I really expect, if I may as a Member of this country, will depend on whether and when a constitutional indictment will be filed. We don't have any other instruments anymore. But we can also bring people to Gregorčičeva. Is this the way, ladies and gentlemen? What are we talking about? About this, if, for example, colleague Brglez forgive if the professor Dr. Milan Brglez teaches in public school the count of seven, teacher Jožef Horvat teaches at private school the count of seven, both of us do our job well. Why does he have to get more paid than I do in private school? Isn't the same work equal pay? That's amazing. The Basic Constitutional Charter states why we went out of Yugoslavia because human rights were violated. You're violating human rights. Now at the age of 70, on the anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration on Human Rights, when the Republic of Slovenia for the first time presides over the United Nations Human Rights Council, the eminent celebration of this act, you are violating human rights for our citizens, our parents. That's outrageous. That's outrageous. I don't know how long. Tell us, Mr. Secretary, I repeat, I hope you understand, give us a date. When will you implement the Constitutional Court decision at the latest? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u141	But, above all, thank you, Member, for your position. He now has the word of Dr. Milan Brglez, and Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert is prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would start the debate essentially where the position was very clearly put and try to justify why and what should be taken into account when we are talking about more options for implementing the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment. Only after I explain it will I be able to answer any of this. Although, in fact, there is no controversy with the position of the Group of Members for a specific person. But we already know so much who we have been in Parliament for some time. The basis that is important to us is the whole Constitution and within the entire Constitution the social state itself comes practically in the same article at the same place, in the second place, that is, before the division of power, comes at the place of the legal and social state. So the sound and equal importance of these matters. This is why this basic focus is so important through the understanding of the social state. As a result, there is little deceiving of what and how what belongs to the public network itself. Public networks include public primary schools and include private schools with concessions. And nothing else. Private schools implementing the public programme are not part of this network. And this is the basis why and how these two should read and why two things can go together, defending a public network on the one hand and on the other hand the fact that it can be rich privately and that this is private, at least as regards the right to education, also protected by international conventions. In addition, of course, Article 57, both mandatory and, on the other hand, that it should be ensured by the financing itself. This means that primary education is financed from public funds. These two things stand. There's nothing I wouldn't do, actually. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you. So whatever matters to us within this basic framework and within this constitutional framework, any solution must be put in place. That's one of the aspects. The second aspect to be respected is, of course, the right to human rights. Here the standards expected from the country are, in fact, much lower in terms of the financing itself. It is necessary to ensure that parents are selected for their children's education, while funding alone is not required by the European Court of Human Rights. And no one's saying that you have to go that way now. We need to understand that we always apply a higher standard. It's either fun or not. Either the international standard is higher or our constitutional standard is higher, all of this is acceptable. Inside that is a matter to be looked at. We have a third view. We are part of the European Union. And as part of the European Union, in fact, any kind of linkage between a private initiative is problematic. Even those solutions that have been the subject of such or other arrangements may sometimes be problematic from the perspective of the European Union's acquis. If one had said in advance how private and how public within such a place. However, what is possible and what has been tried before, when it was attempted by the government in the previous mandate to resolve matters, it was not just to settle this issue, but to address other issues that are very important for quality primary education and the equality of opportunities for all children, such as the conditions for setting up such schools and control, whether they are actually doing so in an appropriate manner. And to reduce the whole matter only on this small issue, unfortunately, so far unresolved in the right way, I don't think it's the most appropriate. I'll put it all together. All these aspects must be taken into account. And one more. The parents who went to the Constitutional Court thought that they had received the case so that they could do better by judging. No decision at the end must be worse than that, so they must be in a better position than that of the one who was abolished. Minimum. And if you know me, you know there's work to do. You always start with yourself, not with others. So this ideological argument, if you want, can be interrupted in a very simple way. To find a space within which solutions can be found, to discuss them meaningfully and not to allow one side to win this ideological battle, because we must eventually live together. As a result, this decision must have some fundamental legitimacy in a given society, both left and right. This is my thought, why and how these things can be handled. So not all of those solutions that have been proposed so far, in my opinion at least, are in line with all these parameters when I talked about what should be taken into account in this possible solution, which – even after I repeat what the Minister himself said – should somehow try to achieve by the next school year. Because that's all that makes sense. You know that in education, school years are a key issue for the overall predictability of everything, as well as planning and so on. So, of course, something before the holidays has to be completed if it is to be realized in the autumn. So there is a clear space within which this renewed experiment must be made again. Another point was made regarding the constitutional initiative given in the previous term. It may have looked like a circuit in the beginning, but during the process it became complementary with proposals that were about to be amended by the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, ZOFV. Complementarity. And just because this complementarity was not respected in the right way, it stopped the process, not something else. However, during the process, the focus that was possible at the beginning was actually against the decision itself, because, after all, the only legislater is still the legislative branch of the authority, has changed into further protection of the entire public education vertical not only of primary school but of the whole, and would not in itself resolve this problem which the Constitutional Court has set up, so it was necessary to adopt a solution in law. You can't do one without the other. Only together would it offer an appropriate solution, which I think would also have appropriate legitimacy. Whether it is now possible to find the same legitimacy in this national assembly is another question and it is very difficult to answer at this point. I'd actually try to open up a few more of these things. One is that sometimes it is necessary to separate the personal level from the state level. When a man goes to the Vatican to the holy seat, but some things he does, certain debates and certain communications also exist. But the fact is, in his previous term, he was on the table, I think, a fair, fair agreement, which either on one side or on the other tried to challenge. That's a fact, that's a fact. One or the other. Everyone tried to win this, I'll say, an ideological battle, at the expense of the children. As a result, nothing was adopted in the end. You know very well why it was not accepted. And that's how it's gonna go on. I think we need to work this out. I think there's a political will to do this, and not to get too quick with these constitutional accusations, I think, because that's your choice, because then, in fact, besides this atomic bomb in the democratic process, practically – where do we go back then? In fact, some things that become more or less trivial compared to it, that give you some time to try to settle this matter. The coalition must agree on these matters and come up with a fair solution that will be within these parameters. You know very well what parameters I'm talking about and what these parameters mean for parents and, on the other hand, for all of these frames. Because it has to be within all of this and if it's within all of this, it'll be acceptable. If it gets wider legitimacy in society, it'll be so much better. This is not a question that should further separate this society. And constantly pushing this issue forward, compared to some other things, is one that can, yes, literally allow such or other manipulation. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u143	Proposer, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u144	One more time, probably not the last time. Your Honor, this is not an ideological battle. You have made this up for yourself, those who do not wish to accept that the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia must be respected and, within one year, so until January 2016, the established unconstitutionality must be abolished. You found an ideological struggle that, within two months or three months after one decision of the Constitutional Court was liked, in the area of deleted, you changed the law. However, since you do not like this decision, you are going to an ideological battle and want to separate yourselves, while the decision of the Constitutional Court is clear. And yes, the parents thought they got the case, and then they had a left-wing government that didn't want a respectable constitutional order. And, Mr. Brglez, not until September. Do you know when the entries are? Marca. By the end of December, we have been here since 15. 12. 2015 We get the same opinion from the Government, which speaks, we will solve things in full. You've been systematically handling things for three years. Three years. With a parliamentary majority, with the help of officials at the Ministry and with the help of a very simple decision by the Constitutional Court, this cannot be done. Three years. Do not tell me today how you want to solve the case, but if, on purpose, because of the ideological platform, you are delaying the case and looking, as the predecessor said, for different options for the execution of the judgment, so that you may have a slightly different breach of the Constitutional Court's decision. In short, you are looking for new and new ways to disregard the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia due to ideology. Write your own ideologies. In the SDS Group, we are only submitting this law because of one fact, because we are late to comply with the Constitutional Court decision, which is very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you very much. If we go a little bit from this philosophical field of Dr. Brglez, who was looking for a way to bypass the decision of the Constitutional Court, I hope that we will not come to natural law, but I am surprised that Dr. Brglez did not say “sorm” in one sentence today. It's a shame, like he used to do in the erased. It's a shame, Dr. Brglez. It's a great shame. And that is not what Anja Bah Žibert says, but the President of the Constitutional Court, who is now saying goodbye, has made it clear that it is not only about respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is also about swearing by the rules of the rule of law that they must be respected within a certain period of time. So, here's the rule of law because of you, and it's the same thought that totally shuts you down. And under question is the democratic order of this country, respected. This is clearly stated by the Constitutional Judges and you are kidding with this question. For if there is no more rule of law, but if our democracy is at stake, then we are already in a very dangerous field. And this is for you to afford again and again today. It's not an ideology, it's not a political decision anymore, it's the worst thing I've ever heard from the minister. He said it was a coalition decision. Yeah, what's the matter with you, Minister? And you're the Minister for Education and Education! What a coalition decision! It is about respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in ridicule right now, as we celebrate 23. It's her 12th holiday. That's what this is about, Minister, not what you're going to do in the coalition. You are obliged to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court and not what the coalition will say to you. But if you can't do that, look, give someone else a chance. Now you're happy to read your notes. And you blew him up somewhere today. For me, it was a disgraceful blow. It's not a 1996 determination. It is so sad that you do not even know the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. What you're trying to say was sometimes in the 1947 Constitution. After our independence, we adopted one other constitution, which she made clear, but that is not what Anja Bah Žibert said, said the Constitutional Judges, who made it clear that if it were what some people interpret, then it would be written in that it is only about the implementation of public programmes in public primary schools, but we do not. It's about justice, it's about the right to a public programme of primary schools. That's a big difference. That's a big difference. In fact, sometimes it was only considered that programmes could only be implemented in public primary schools. And when this right was, of course, extended by the adoption of a new constitution, it was also the basis for private schools coming into the system, which also have a public education programme set by the State – because they do not invent it because they do not operate outside this programme – the public education programme, as far as the programme is concerned, is clear. And like you said before, Dr. Brglez, there's a problem here, because it can be that these programs aren't what they are in some public schools. That's why they're inspections. Yes, you said that you wanted to solve this matter more broadly, so that it could be accurately explained how and what and also who will have control over it. The surveillance is clear today. Those who do not respect this publicly valid programme can also not have funding rights. But today we are talking only about the public programme and here is not justice, as I previously listened to from the Left's point of view, I don't know if they are fooling around or really not knowing why this mother is going to be, but this is not about the right of schools. It's not a material that allows some right to schools, it's a right to parents. The right of parents to have a public programme free of charge for all children. This is not what we have in Slovenia today. Some parents have to pay for this public program. It's not about that extra program these schools have. Some have value elsewhere, others. But if we just went to watch matter so that we had a private school that didn't have this concession, we wouldn't have a publicly valid program, and we wouldn't get this funding. And we're not talking about who's going to be restoring school, who's going to be expanding school, who's going to be building gyms, we're talking about a programme that we have to fund for all the children by the state. And we're not doing that today. And there can be no debate here because it allows you to do so in the constitution, and this has also been written by the Constitutional Judges in their decisions. If we also read a separate opinion, we would actually see this difference. During the constitution that was once in this country, I said 1947 or in a new constitution, because otherwise it could be narrowed down in the constitution as it was. And today we can no longer talk about some percentages of how much here, how much there. No, they're all the same. And these parents today pay for something that other parents in another school do not need, but the government commands them to do. We are not talking about something that is not necessarily necessary to fulfil, as we call compulsory education. The primary school is compulsory and therefore has a mandatory programme. But if it is mandatory and if it has some mandatory program that these schools have also received with a certificate of implementation, then there can be no difference here. And some of you still mix public school and private school. It's not the same. I know a private school that doesn't have a concession program and then I have to do exams and it's totally payable. But when we talk about the school that got the concession for this program, it's not about the extra programs again, you're completely confusing here. And in fear, because it's done by a school that's supposed to be basically Catholic, and then you cut it with ideology. Have you ever been to this school? Your Minister or Prime Minister, now Minister Cerar, visited her and said there he would make things right. What was he doing there? At that time, it would be better for me to be at the Ministry and coordinate the matter in order for these matters to really come to fruition. You almost had a chance to get this sorted out, but you didn't get it sorted out. Today you are again promising systemic solutions. Don't joke about it because it's not about systemic solutions. It's just that you're looking for a way around the Constitutional Court's decision. And that's what you guys do all the time. For a certain category absolutely, as soon as the decision comes, let us respect a certain category when it comes to parents of taxpayers, but not to them because they have a child in the wrong school, according to theirs, although this school has a publicly valid programme. I would like to know how many Members of this National Assembly are teaching children abroad. I'm gonna check that out one day, too, because I'm very interested. Even after what high school and so on, especially those who scream very much, how to have only a public network. I'm really gonna go over this one time and analyze the customers they come from. Similarly, I felt important when we were discussing health care where someone was being treated. That's when we yell at how inappropriate concessions are. Look, once again, this is not a political issue. This is not about who comes from the left political field. It is not a question of who comes from the right political field. It is a matter of respect for the rule of law, the rule of law. It's just that the Constitution has made this possible. The point is that it is no longer an important class fight, but to extend the rights that democracy has given us. And freedom to make choices and choices. But once again, it's not just a choice as it is, it's a public programme set by the Ministry, and these schools have to respect it if they want to get this funding. But let's not let them get funding like the rest of the primary schools. That's all this is about. We don't need any systemic solutions to do this. Do the other things, too, absolutely. I'm always up for a systemic solution. But today, settle this, for these parents are unfairly, unjustifiably, and unconstitutionally paying. That's the question today. And that's what we're facing. For if you do not support this today, then call on the citizens and citizens of this country not to respect the laws and not the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because you do not need to. Why would they be second-rate and have to respect it? No, no, no. That's what you're reporting today, and that's unacceptable. And we could have implemented a constitutional decision by now. Don't tell me you were making some moves. You prepared a proposal that didn't drink water. That's what this is about. That's not a move. We're talking, we're talking, we're making arrangements, we're preparing. These aren't moves for me. For me, moving is what comes to the table. And once it really came to the table, but it didn't drink water, because it was once again the source of ideological nature, not legal and constitutional matter. And no, I don't accept here, I absolutely can't accept your views that you've been told in the introductions. They don't drink water. You can look for excuses, ways in which this will all be arranged and we will resolve matters and, of course, also allow these parents to do everything as they should. Allow them today! All you have to do is press the button, and you're going to compare these parents to other parents. Don't share kids. What I listened to in this National Assembly, what injustice do we do to a certain group of children who are not, by the way, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Today you have your own citizens before you, you have a decision before you by the Constitutional Court, you have an opinion once by the First Lady of the Constitutional Court, who has told you that it is not only respect, it is also time, and you continue. Yes, I hope, citizens and citizens, to listen, because after today's vote you will be able to decide whether you will still respect Slovenian laws and the Constitution. For if it should be violated by Members, why should it be binding on you?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u147	I believe that you will not be Members and Members of the National Assembly, but I do hope that you will not refer to this and call on the law not to be respected. That's my request. We're responsible for that, too. And Dr. Milan Brglez has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally. You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u148	President! You're running a procedure in this National Assembly. And you have no right to be involved in my debate. But it is true that you come from a party that intends to continue to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. So don't comment on my call. Look at your behavior.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u149	The honourable Member, calling on any of you or us not to respect the laws, is not appropriate for Members and Members of the National Assembly. It's not about your particular debate. Every single one of you who calls for the law not to be respected, I'll remind you. And I believe that in time, none of you will mind. Dr. Milan Brglez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you. Word, just a replica. I think I was misinterpreted at one point and that's why I'm reporting to the replica. You have replaced the speech on conceptual differences with clear definitions within the legislation itself, i.e. by legal rules. It takes both. It is necessary to have clear concepts and to be well aware of the legal rules. However, the legal rules are not just one narrow article, but a whole complex. And those who know something about the law, in fact we know that it is interpreted through different methods, interpretations and that each implementation of the rule of law is already a kind of interpretation. So here, at these levels, it's hard to discuss this way. However, I certainly don't think there is anything going on – political speech is political, pretending to be anything else is completely inappropriate. And practically impossible. I'm aware that my speech is political. I'm aware that it can also be ideological, sometimes more, sometimes less. But I have every right to do that. I don't take it any more than I do any of you. The legitimacy of such speech is as it must be. Of course, I am deciding on the Constitution with my conscience and yes, the law is not solely dependent on respect for certain decisions, the law is fundamentally dependent on my conscience. As is the Member's duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u151	The replica's over. You have a word, mag. Marko Koprivc. But get ready, Mr. Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I, too, must first respond to this exercise by the Member who spoke before me. Calling citizens and citizens to non-compliance with the laws is really scary. It's scary, and I don't think he's a member of the National Assembly, and it's worth the sharpest conviction. After all, you, too, could solve this constitutional problem, be on the table, of course, needs 46 votes, and at the end of the day you could confirm and resolve the proposed law in the previous term. But I'll get back to the beginning. There was a lot of talk about constitutional matter and constitutionality. Allow me to quote to you the second article of the Slovenian Constitution, namely that Slovenia is a legal and social state. The social state requires a strong network of public services. Of course, public education is one of the most important public services. And in Slovenia luckily we have a very quality public education and also preschool education, which is not part of today's debate or hearing paper. It is important that we also invest the necessary resources in future in public education, which is accessible to all and is free of charge to all citizens and citizens. For me, it is certainly unacceptable that any distinction between public education, which is also ideologically neutral and in line with the values advocated by our Constitution, is unacceptable to me by private education. For the fifth time, you have proposed a solution to the constitutional problem or a decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the financing of private education, which is not the only possible solution. And I don't think it's the right thing to do, either. In fact, the equation of public education with private education is unacceptable to me, I repeat. But we know where the background is for such purposes. We know where the background is. In the interests of the Roman Catholic Church and perhaps someone else. And unfortunately, we can't land on that. Once again, I ask for respect, we have listened to you too, and I repeat, the decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected and a solution acceptable to all must be found. But there's more to the solution. And I'm glad the minister announced that by the next school year this solution would be known. But we need to find her together, here in Parliament. And it would be good not to share, but the left to the right, but to find a solution that is consensual and at the same time in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. But please don't make some ideological stories out of it without any need. We know exactly that you want to gain political points and create demagogy, which is absolutely unnecessary and harmful for our citizens and citizens. And please, citizens and citizens, respect the Constitution and respect the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The speaker has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u154	Mr President, the Constitution must be respected and the decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected. You're obviously not going to fulfill it. So talking to others about how to respect the Constitution is scary, what you say, while you do not respect the Constitution as elected representative of the National Assembly, it seems frightening to say that it will be normal for people to ask themselves tomorrow why to respect the rule of law, but if elected Members do not respect it. And, Mr Koprivc, I don't know where you went to school, but public education is free. I've got three kids, one's in school, one's in kindergarten. If public education is free, I will demand that everyone return to me this ideal public education, all the bills or if from tomorrow I start bringing them to you and then it will be for me, for my children really free. That it is ideologically neutrally difficult to listen to a man who had a hanged Communist ideology at home. And respectable Mr Koprivc, no, it is not an equation of public and private, but it is an equation of public programmes in private and public schools. This is the subject of a decision by the Constitutional Court. Your Honor, before you give a replica, first ask yourself what is in the Constitutional Court's decision. Second, read what our bill says. Thirdly, decide to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u155	It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I would like to replicate only one part, as far as compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision is concerned. If you have listened to me correctly, I have initially said that I am absolutely in favour of respect for the Constitutional Court's decision and that together we must find a solution that will be in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. And here we think exactly the same. However, it is necessary to find consensus and the right path, which will not at the same time endanger public education. When we talk about whether education is free or not, the primary school in Slovenia is free. And, dear colleagues, I hope to say, even in comparison with other European countries, at a much higher level, as regards quality. But I wouldn't go into any of the other things, but I wouldn't go into replication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u157	Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u158	Yes, Sir Koprivc, the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI is unconstitutional. In the law, we speak exclusively of article 86 of the law. If you care about respecting constitutional order, enforce this law through first reading, and then you can massacre it, as in your ideological struggle, but you can do whatever you want, but see that this article will not be inconsistent with the Constitution again. In short, today we have the opportunity to release the article referred to in the Constitutional Court's decision through the first hearing. Then you can bid at a meeting of your mother's working body, as you did in your previous term, or you can invite all nine Constitutional Judges, perhaps former Constitutional Judges, to tell you exactly what the legislator should write under what it says we have to settle the case. All options are open today and you refer to the system solutions of ZOFVI. In one law you have pleaded, we quickly resolve the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but today you do not want to accept this because of the ideology. It's not an ideology problem. Article 86 is inconsistent with the Constitution. This has to be resolved and you don't want to save her because of the ideological platform.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u159	You've raised your hand. You want a replica? Okay. Then, honourable Members, we continue in peace. Emotions are relaxed. That's probably something I'm allowed to comment on. You're really great. Thank you very much. You have the word Mr. Gregor Perič, now it's all crossed out, to prepare Dr. Darius Krajčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Good-bye! I believe that in this Christmas-New Year's package, which we have listened to today, everyone has found something for themselves, from those more conservative to those more progressive, to more liberal views. We have also heard today in the debate that there are also liberal views in the SDS. I look forward to them, for in this way we will certainly be much easier to cooperate in any way than at this moment it may be seen or heard or seemed. If I go back to today's subject. We have heard a lot of things, but in a way we have come to argue about the financing of primary schools, i.e. private and public. And unfortunately, this debate has become what some of us were afraid of becoming – quite ideological. I think it is quite unnecessary that this is happening because the situation is relatively easy to see from the point of view of the problem as a problem, but when we put it on the political field, it gets a little more complicated and then leads us into the situation we are in. We have heard a lot about the mandatory public programme, the superstandard programme or the enlarged programme, and I would not repeat myself and go into details, because I don't think I would add anything new that we've never heard before. However, the problem is always the same, and this must be resolved by the legislator or the Government with a proposal. how to separate the mandatory and extended programme. Indeed, this problem is very easy to solve in the field of public education, but in the field of private education it is much harder to make a distinction especially in those schools that use such educational approaches, where one and the other are very intertwined, so I think that this is what has put us and ourselves in the most position in the past to have this problem. However, I would like to point out that it is in the spirit of our constitution, we have mentioned it many times today, a private education area rich in Slovenian school space. We've heard that too many times. I am sure that in no way does this mean that you could or should be poor to the public. This is not the goal, it is not the purpose, and I also believe that it does not pose any risk. We have also heard many times today, at least twice, then I stopped counting because I do not know if it made sense by the SDS that, in the previous term, both the competent Minister of Education and the President of the Government did nothing in this direction, except for a few visits. If we are perfectly right and honest, and it is right that we are in this house, as far as we can, that is not true. There have been a lot of efforts, but I agree that, when we talk about the result, this is about solving this problem, we have not reached this final goal. But to say that no effort has been made in this direction, and this, I believe, is wrong and you will agree. In the final stage, you were engaged, you who were here at the time, even with one novel. You mentioned her several times today. I cannot agree with either of these, mentioned above, now I do not remember the exact dictatorship, but it has been said that this amendment was not in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. I'll get you an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, quoted from the magnetogram of 6. 9. 2017, we are talking about the novelty of the previous government, which says: "The bill eliminates a different amount of funding for the compulsory work of public school curricula in public and private schools. Therefore, from this point of view, even in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is implementing the Constitutional Court decision « So, the solution was on the table, as we mentioned in the SMC in the opening presentation of the position, was a problem and will obviously be for a while, I hope, not too long, political will. Because, as we have heard recently, it has become ideological and it is difficult to find a solution as soon as it becomes ideological. I think we need to find a technical solution in particular, or we will not take a step forward. At least not me, but someone else will. Indeed, we have heard that an interview with the President of the Constitutional Court, who said goodbye or said good-bye, has been mentioned several times. My brief comment on that, no. Today, we see that we are pulling a little each on our own or standing in some way on the brakes, and if we do, we will not move. Nor does this ideological upheaval bring some concrete results and the consequences of all this can be, and this is very real, given the activities that are also taking place in the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court will simply intervene in our legislative function and decide and adopt a temporary solution with which we will then, again, decide whether we will agree for a shorter time, for a longer time or simply leave it. What do I mean by that? I don't like this solution personally, because we follow this division of power into three branches and we get to the point where the Constitutional Court has to cut down into a legislative function means something is wrong. And that is, I will say, so from the point of view, I will again for the fourth time, I think, today already mentioned the political system, this is not a good signal, not for all of us, who are somehow involved in creating our country, and not for our citizens. I will also stress once again that there has been a great deal of effort in the previous term to come up with a novel that is generally acceptable enough to receive 46 votes. Unfortunately, these novels, as you mentioned, were stranded, the trenches were too deep. And in the SMC, we are aware that this is some problem that we have to solve, so in this sense we will also be in this coalition if we all decide to think more broadly, very constructively in this sense. But I can't agree with this, I've been very careful before, and I've listened very carefully, and I think it was my colleague Lisec who said that at the time, from the SMC or in the previous government or coalition, no one came to the SDS and sought some broad support. Today, I ask you whether before this bill was tabled, you may have approached anyone outside, let's say, but you did a little bit of touching on the opposition parties to see if there would be any agreement. I believe not because this solution has been offered many times and you know our views. If we keep repeating the same solution and expect a different result, it's so little naive, I'll say. And the third thing I'd like to touch is a response to my colleague Lisca. Maybe you didn't listen to me very carefully or you got the wrong information about the SMC position. You said that for us the time dimension of the implementation of this constitutional decision is irrelevant. Of course, it is important, but I, when I presented the view that it is not an important time dimension in view of this, came from how many unfulfilled constitutional decisions there are. So we still have a few older constitutional decisions, so it doesn't matter to us what we're doing from this point of view. Because if we went through a time series, we should first go to Ankara, which is our common problem, so to speak, which is transiting from government to government, from left to right, and then to those younger constitutional decisions, if I may say so. So here, in this sense, the time dimension doesn't play a role for us, and I believe not for many others. So much for once, if I have any more ideas, I'll call you back. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, your word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u162	Very briefly. Why did we expect a different result? Because we expected the new composition of the National Assembly to have the courage to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court and to comply with the decision in law. And now I don't know very well, I believe that you as the new Member do not know this, but it is not intended to go to other Members' groups in the past. [[…]] I know if you have coordination problems in the coalition, that this is a little different than if one parliamentary group is looking for co-proposals to this law. And I hope that I am allowed to say from this town that, in the previous term, your minister was at my office at least twice when I had a separate office as chairman of the committee, and we talked about this and I offered her a hand that 34 SMC members plus 19 SDS members could easily solve this famous question of how much to finance compulsory and how much of an extended part. You know what she said? That she does not have a mandate to speak on behalf of the Group of Members. If the Minister doesn't have that much influence on his delegation, then I really don't know who to turn to. Perhaps I could have referred to Mr Brglez, who was in the SMC Group at the time, but I knew what his opinion would be about this law, but I would not have irritated him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u163	Mr. Ambassador, thank you very much for your position. I keep watching if anyone raises their hand to the replica, and I notice that. Did I miss something? I didn't. Thank you. Dr. Darij Krajčič, you have experienced the moment that your word is yours and prepare yourself for Mr. Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u164	Dear President, thank you so much for this moment. It is slowly past the 100 days of appointment of the 13th Slovenian government when they are supposed to have peace. We don't have one. And if we look at history a little bit, there was Roosevelt's government in the United States in 1933. Roosevelt was a Democrat. On the other hand, they were Republicans and agreed for 100 days of peace for a new government. Since then, this unwritten rule has become a universally recognized rule for mature democracies. And in fact, these 100 days of peace have also had and received, and at that time, you probably know from history, but no, created a very interesting program called New Deal, known as the United States of America came out of the crisis that began in 1929. Do we have this peace here in these 100 days? I'm guessing not. During this time, we had 17 extraordinary meetings and 3 regular sessions. And if we looked at the matter a little bit, we'd say, so over the thumb, 90 percent of the material was from the opposition. But we have already had this standard of 100 days of peace in this House. In 2004, when a government vowed no matter what, one of the opposition parties pledged to give the new government 100 days of peace. In short, this standard has already been in this House. So we fell. That is why even if we speak, or hear that it is a recycled government, but most ministers, a very large majority, sit on the new ministries, one part of the ministers is completely new, a new party has come in, so 100 days of peace, if anything, would point to the level of democracy in this country. What, though, have we received from the opposition that has tabled most of these proposals? Let's say threats with companies moving abroad, if you remember. Fiscal rule before and after that. From the beginning, until even the government has come together, yes, the fiscal rule has to be respected, your coalition contract is 3 billion or how much less. As soon as the new government and parliament were simply formed, the boom inside with a series of laws, proposals that on the one hand reduced the revenue of the budget, on the other hand increased the expenditure. That's what we got. We've also been given lies such as that of Bauhaus moving his accounts to Austria. We've also been given the impression that we want to cancel Miklavsev's evening because we're giving such long sessions. But that the meetings were long and that there were so many of them, the reason was that there were so many proposals by the opposition. And I have to tell you in person, if you'll excuse me, that night, that's December 5th, when Michael's evening, they asked me at home, but you're coming home tonight. I said, I will definitely, because one of the clients in there also has the name Christian, will certainly make it possible this evening. They didn't. In short, it's obvious that they can't be on such a beautiful evening, because we're doing sessions in such a way that we can't enjoy it. It was nice to show the ideas of the opposition and all that it is, and the demands to support it, but if we don't support it, we're ugly, incompetent, hostile to people, we don't even give people hats and gloves, I remember, sometimes there's a threat and insult that has fallen. Absolutely, to be clear, I do not object to the opposition putting the law into practice. He's absolutely entitled to that. But we were in a period of hundreds of days because it's not the most dignified, because it's not really fair, because it's not right, it's not country-efficient and it doesn't enhance the reputation of this institution. However, at that time, this government has taken quite a few steps forward, many things have been agreed in society, since agreement with the unions, certain sentences have been broken, threats to sentences, minimum wages have risen, social transfers have been set up and so forth, ZIPRS has accepted, which is not insignificant. The problem that we are talking about today, and as far as I know, has been very far coordinated in some version of the coalition contract with another potential coalition party, which then left this story out, that is to say, the agreement has already been concluded. Today, perhaps if this party were in a coalition, we had another president of Parliament, but I must say that this one, which is currently, I quite like, is a respected president, if I may say so, and I also like it if you are conducting a session with a little jokes that we can bring a little bit of joy to this spiritism. What's really strange to me is the threat of a constitutional charge if we don't support this law. Not because it would not be your right, but because we are within hundreds of days, a constitutional charge against the President of the Government, as far as I can tell, within hundreds of days of peace, when a new government is given the opportunity to rule. And that seems to me to have a word in mind, but I'm gonna use it so nicely here, which I don't think is appropriate. I expected to learn a lot of new things in these hundreds of days, including ferple, as it's called, communication and that, but I haven't learned much as a newbie. On one of the committees, I have even heard that the new Members should first be one mandate in the opposition. But it would probably be perfect if the mentor was the one who said that. Of course it doesn't work. And during this period there were not a hundred days of peace, not for the government, not for this Parliament. But we've been processing things well, and we've come to where we've come today. Dear colleagues, it's a shame we lost our chance these hundreds of days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u165	Commendation in this House is rare. I don't know if we can proceed at this rate. Tomaž Fox, you have a chance. Here you go. You have a procedural option.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thank you, President. First of all. I have two questions for you. First of all, who sets the agenda for Members not to go home to Miklavž because it is obviously the opposition's fault. And I'm wondering who's setting the agenda and if there's a proposal for whether or not you want to follow it. Because I'm the father of three kids myself, and believe me, I'd be happy to be home. I am interested, given that the opposition believed that some could not survive Miklavžev's evening at home, the first question, who sets the agenda and the second question, given that you are explaining and reading the Rules of Procedure, whether the opposition is still allowed to make laws. Thirdly, I expect that when the debate is over, you will read Article 109 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the first of the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u167	And then you ask me to give everyone coffee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u168	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I have not just heard what you said, but I will also commend you because I have a very concrete procedural proposal. I greatly appreciate my cousin, Dr. Daria Krajčič, and I also appreciate the Slovenian Constitution, article 88, legislative initiative, because it is very short, one sentence: “The law can be tabled by the government, a Member or 5,000 voters.” I am today, Mr President, and I ask you here for one attention, that many times I have heard mockery at the Christian, formerly Catholic – you did not preside – Catholic, I do not know what already, but the church, yes, okay. Look, religious freedom is one of the fundamental human rights. 70 years have passed since the publication of the General Declaration on Human Rights. This year, the Republic of Slovenia holds the presidency of the United Nations Human Rights Council for the first time. And we celebrate our fourth anniversary with unscheduled constitutional decisions. These are all gifts we give to the altar of human rights. And leave us our religious freedom, please. We do not convene meetings of the National Assembly, Mr President, please, if you say so to Dr. Kryczych. With all due respect, and always voting in the College for the convening of this or that meeting, for the order of the time-table set by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u169	If it's a procedural proposal to allow religious freedom. We're letting her go. If it's a procedural proposal to respect human rights. We respect them, and I believe that everyone sitting here believes that. If there is another question, it's rhetorical, because we all know how to read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that we're working on. Please, let's move on. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, your word. And get ready, Mrs. Matey Udowicz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u170	Dear President of this National Assembly, thank you for the floor. There's no minister. State secretary with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! We have been talking for a while about today's point, education and education, about the bill. In my opinion, one of the most important foundations of the Republic of Slovenia. I will try, Madam President, to return to the point that we are considering today. As I have been monitoring our Parliament for some time now, I have also been interested in foreign parliaments in the past, but of course it would be very difficult to speak today when Parliament is losing meaning. Surely, though, he loses when we do not respect the Constitution. I also remember the first time I sat in this parliamentary bench, first from the President of the National Assembly, the current Member, I received this booklet, written on it by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. When I listened to the debate, I did a little bit of pretending to have at least 60 Members, this was not possible to be just coalition MPs, they must always step together by the coalition and the opposition to change in this booklet, written by the greatest legal experts, at least 60 Members, to elect at least half a million of our citizens and citizens. This was for the three elections. I would like to say here how important a member of this Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is. Of course, today we are talking about education and education. On a constitutional decision that is four years old this month. The former Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, was also the one who wrote the articles of this constitution. When we heard from the predecessor that we should not give up peace, that will not be true. For four years, we have tried four times in the Slovenian Democratic Party to respect this constitutional decision, which speaks only of the public programme, but the public programme, which is free, has not been heard. Mr Brglez was today in his introduction, which represents the position, but also when he spoke, he was talking about a time that was possible until the month of March in order for something to happen. As a member of the National Assembly, I doubt that. If four years, if four years were not to be heard, were not willing, the Constitutional Court’s decision would not have been respected. As we speak of this decision today, the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia is that of all of us who are here in the National Assembly and of all the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are outside this National Assembly. Once again, Mr Krajčič spoke earlier about the lack of visibility of today's point. As are those outside this Parliament who accompany us every day, who must respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia in all areas. That is why, of course, I call on the Minister, who is currently absent, the Secretary of State, with his co-workers, the coalition party, to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court, which celebrates four years, and to allow the vote that will take place tonight, to let the green light shine that it is possible for the benefit of our parents, mothers, fathers, especially their children, who are in primary school or who are waiting for them in the future elementary school, that the public programme will be free of charge. I think something would fly out of the sky if we were to say today that some school needs to be rebuilt or some benches or chairs or some gym can be restored. I think something from the sky might fly. In short, it's a basic, what all our neighbouring countries have, it's for a public programme that's free. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mrs Matey Udovč, and prepare for Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your word, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Let me trust you that I have been very happy today since the beginning of the debate when I listened to the minister who said he would come with a solution at the very beginning of next year. It saddens me, however, that I have heard in my colleagues' debate later that the Minister will not arrive with a solution until the next year, but by the next school year. Please, my fellow Members, the Ministry, I will be pleased if we use the same terminology, the same timeline for all of us to be happy that we can find a common solution, which I believe we are all committed to. Today we are discussing, today, a proposal for amendments to the Law on the organisation of financing for education and education. I've been following this issue for a long time. As a mother of two primary school children, I have always been interested in the functioning of the educational system, the content of educational programmes, the quality of their implementation, the protection of personal data of children, students and, of course, funding. Educational programmes must be materially rich, tailored to the needs of society, schoolchildren's levels of development and perception and without unnecessary ballast content. The use of modern methods, teaching tools must ensure a quality knowledge transfer for students. The educational component should also be highlighted in the implementation of the programmes, as individuals are already forming in primary school. This is important for students, teachers, and parents. The main objective of the education system is to ensure the optimal development of the individual, and this objective must be pursued by any institution involved in the implementation of the education programme, whether public or private. Only then will there be a systemic debate in which education is to be developed – or in a tested, accessible, public or so-called private education, which in time would be only a privilege for the electorate. I see private schools as a welcome competition for the public education system with the aim of improving the quality of education. Public or private schools should have equal conditions for entry, educational programme and standard of knowledge of comparable populations at the end of the programme. I will not burden myself with the reasons why the Constitutional Court decision has not yet been implemented, despite the fact that it is currently a relatively small financial consequence. It is obvious, however, that our client, the modern centre Party, in the previous government, remained alone with the proposed novel, which would fully implement or comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. The obvious polarisation of the opinions and views of Members has not led to an appropriate solution. The excuses for different interpretations of the decision are not entirely convincing, as the Legislative and Legal Service has clearly defined the mandatory and extended programme in the light of the Basic School Act. In short, as I have pointed out many times before, agreements, contracts, decisions must be respected and implemented. This is the basis for the functioning of each rule of law and for our continued professional and political decision-making. This Decision should also be fully followed and implemented. I see no reason why we should now step away from the solutions we have drawn up in this novel. Maybe you just need a little correction. I hope that, at least at this point, when we decide on the system and consequently on the quality of the basic educational process, we will be able to achieve enough empathy, will, energy and, above all, political wisdom to solve this problem. I expect appropriate engagements and activities from the Ministry of the Interior and from the Minister to address this issue. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my commitment to raising the quality of the existing primary school system, which will be friendly to students, teachers and parents, who will meet all the needs of pupils for further education according to their wishes and potentials, as well as to be accessible to all. Private schools must be a healthy competition for public schools, and in no way can they replace them and assume their roles in the education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u173	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. You have the floor, Mrs Jelka Godec, and prepare yourself for Mr Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u174	Members of the coalition will find it difficult to talk to each other with the Ministry if you don't know the terminology of which beginning of the year you're talking about. If you have now found that you are talking to one another about the start of the school year and the other about the calendar year, then sit down and talk about it first, because then you will not even know how to read the Constitutional Court or the Constitutional Court’s decision. In addition, read well the entire Constitutional Court decision first, the Basic School Act and the ZOFVI, and then you can discuss it. Because knowing education is not just about having two children, three children, or five children in primary school, or a high school, or a private school. A well-known education means working in school, having kids in school, being some kind of inspector for not knowing what. So being a father, a mother to a child who goes to a public or private school doesn't mean you know the school system. Just like being a patient doesn't mean he knows the medical system. A constitutional decision and laws, but you have to know how to read the laws, and that's another. You said public education must be accessible to everyone. Which one is not available, tell me? They drive them to school, that's accessibility. What else is accessibility? In order for anyone to sign in — to sign in. Under the Constitution, primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds, accessible to all. Everyone's available! If someone doesn't want to go to school, it's not a problem for us, then where else do these things have to be solved? And you're talking about singing private school. Who sings private school? Who? Let's talk about good education and good school about bad school. Let's talk about how to improve public education. Now you're talking about public and private schools. All schools funded by tax money are public schools or state schools are those that spend only this money. Private schools or schools implementing a public programme funded by an 85 per cent public programme are six of these private schools. But hell, you won't believe it, and one is 100 percent funded! Five of them are gone, and one of them is gone! This is not the case because the Waldorf School was established in 1993 prior to the amendment of the ZOFVI and is financed 100 %. Do you even know that? The next five are financed 85 per cent and do not say that it is 100 per cent funding in one way or another, because the material costs must be provided by the school itself. We are talking about public programmes, which are also referred to in the 2014 Constitutional Decision and are well written to you, "Article 57(2) of the Constitution therefore grants students the right to attend a compulsory public education programme free of charge, regardless of whether it is carried out by a public legal or private body." Now you have settled on a publicly valid programme, in the previous term they have even spoken of a programme that is publicly valid, in order to give a legal interpretation of the Basic School Act, which says that the publicly valid programme is divided into a mandatory and extended programme and we are obliged to know what is – mathematics and so on – and the extended programme covers extended stay, morning protection, additional education, complementary, interesting activities and teaching of optional subjects. The extended programme includes students on a voluntary basis. The Constitutional Court tells you that what follows this law is financed, but does not finance what follows the needs of a private school. But that is not the subject of funding, and that is what we are stressing all the time. What a private school offers is what follows their interests – Waldorf has its own, montessori has its own, Schuštar has its own, and that is not financed. However, supplementary instruction is financed — why not? It's part of a public programme. Additional education should be financed, this is part of a public programme. And then, of course, we get to interesting activities and so on. Now, if you do not finance this extended private school, then also in primary school, in the second elementary school in Ljubljana or Celje, you will not. Then you'll come here in conflict with that. It is a shame, however, that the state legislature, the National Assembly, in four years has not been able to adopt a law that would follow a constitutional decision and you say that the previous coalition had a solution. My dears, those who are new, if you're not, you don't know, because I believe you've looked at this. The coalition was initially 85 per cent funding in the previous term, then 65 per cent of the funding of the extended programme, and finally confirmed no percentage because Desus proposed it. Now you say that all these options, 85 percent, 65 percent and zero, follow a constitutional decision. To follow uniformly – how? What's next? 85 percent of the funding, 65 percent or zero percent? It can't be a little bit like that, a little bit like that. But then you worked on the board and then you ended up looking like no percentage. You're funny with that. Finally, you have parties who propose a constitutional change in this area and now you have a minister from this party who has proposed a constitutional change. Earlier, a colleague had read that their 85 per cent, as proposed by the SMC – I think it was – or the Ministry proposed 85 per cent of the funding to follow the constitutional decision that the SPS said. Look at the opinion of the ZPS for our marriage. Look what it says! “Let us consider that the proposal for a law removes in a decision of the Constitutional Court a finding of non-compliance with the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution.” Well, what are you gonna say now? Now we're there and the best thing to do is get this Constitutional Court to decide. The best thing is peace — peace in the house. Question! Then you say, private schools – let everyone have the same access to all schools. I agree, I think they have that without restrictions on admission, like in private schools. Now tell me, what's the entry limit? I have a kid in private school. I have a kid in private school! There was no entry limit! None. Points – the same as everywhere. Nothing! No one asked me if we're religiously oriented, I don't know if we're Islamists, if we're not all, whether we're atheists, which is now so modern to be, or whatever we are. Nothing. But we all know. Of course, we know if you're going to primary school or to a school called Schultz, that maybe you're expecting a little different education than you are in public school. Yes, they have a mass at the beginning of the year and at the end of the year. No one forces them to go; they can go, they can't. However, a respectful attitude towards different religions and cultures is expected. And you won't believe it. So many different religions and cultures, respected as my child learned in private school, neither of the previous two learned in public school. None. And she's not gonna brag about private school. I'm not gonna sing to them. Everyone's got their own, one's here, one's there. But I think that access to all schools must be the same, the Constitution says that primary school education is compulsory, that public funding is provided through public funds, that all certificates of the ninth class are ultimately valid, regardless of which school they come from. Same thing, because otherwise, I don't know, from one school, the montessors couldn't sign up for high school, but they did. Therefore, certificates are publicly valid, the same for all and now you are working from this public-level programme now 25 extended programmes along with. The extended program is fully defined in primary school. It's clearly defined. Once again, the decision of the Constitutional Court also makes it clear that that part of the extended programme is not financed by private schools for the sake of their beliefs, whether you want to, or interests, or whatever. And you pay for that. You won't believe it. We pay for the theater in public school. And the school signs, those who can be paid, those who can be paid, those who are from the school fund — whatever. That's what school pays for. We can also view this as an extended programme. That is why I would prefer, a coalition, or in education, to work on our school system progressing in terms of organization, quality and so forth so that we will not talk today in primary school about lawyers in schools, about such anomalies that we now read that man has no words. About the autonomy of the teacher, about the school programs and so on. You talk about these things. Talk about anomalies of mandatory selection content and optional selection content. Total nonsense, anomalies in there, so help me God! Talk about children having systematic checks that they have to have because health care, I don't know which are not counted in the school program within 190 hours of schooling. And then what do teachers do? They're writing a science day! Talk about it! That's what the principals say. And we have some other anomalies that we have in this school. So don't tell me that the coalition in the previous term was ready for you to have a prepared law that followed unanimously – because, once again, you were: 85 percent and then 65 percent to zero. This is not uniformly followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court. It's unique when you say, "It's that much, but it's over." Let's take another look at these things. To tell us a hundred days of peace — no! You know what a lot of people who work in the economy say? The most peaceful thing is when the government doesn't do anything. We're the happiest then. But if a colleague thinks of himself as a government that wants to have a hundred days of peace, he's wrong because we're not a government. We're a parliament. The government is sitting somewhere else, they can have a hundred days of peace if they want. Of such a hundred days of peace and of such performances, there is essentially a kind of mockery for a Member. He's giving himself a hard time. So, a hundred days of peace for the Government – yes, we Members – see, something has to be done. Thus, our proposal is once again an attempt to follow the Constitutional Court's decision that it will not really happen that the Constitutional Court will say. There are already additional requirements in the Constitutional Court and – just wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Alaj Kovačič, your word. Get ready, Mr. Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Here I would like to refer to my predecessor, colleague Godec — I agree with her in the two things she said. The first is that four years is really too long for a constitutional decision to be implemented. Above all, I agree with the matter when you said that those who have children — say, parents — do not know everything about school. I don't have any kids myself, but I think I have some experience about school, and I think I'm competent to say something about it. As far as primary education is concerned, I think it is far more orderly in Slovenia if we look at comparisons with secondary schools and colleges, where I think there is something else to sort out. As I've already said, I think it's been a really long four years and it shouldn't have happened. Well, that's kind of how I look at it. My personal opinion is slightly different from that of the Constitutional Court, but this does not, of course, diminish the fact that we have to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. I think that in primary schools – I think it's a little bit controversial that there are even private schools, because somehow we're already sharing children on our own, yours. Because I think that primary school is so quality that everyone has a very good opportunity to be educated in it. Of course, private schools can exist, but I think that — this is my personal opinion — if parents have a free choice to put them in these private schools, they also finance them. But the Constitutional Court here said that the Constitution – it is said that we do not respect the constitutional decision and I believe that the coalition and the Ministry alone should arrange it in the first half of 2019, and I hope that this Gordy knot will somehow be cut off and this will be settled. I also see the problem in these private schools in this – today there is no main voice against migrants on the opposition side – that these private schools always represent a social group. Thus, if a Slovenian family living in Slovenia, which is an Islamic religion, is likely not to be admitted to a Catholic school. Then, for example, this Islamic community will also have the opportunity to establish its own school. And I don't know if you will, the opposition, then – since we hear so many times that you are against migrants and also Islamic confessions – whether you will then approve of the establishment of such a school. I am also interested in the very constitutional charge you have mentioned against the Prime Minister of the Government. I think you've made it clear to your colleague from SD Milan Brglez that he's somehow interfering with the legislative branch of power. At the same time, Comrade Lisec, you said you thought it was funny that the previous Minister of Education told you in the office that she did not have the power for her parliamentary group. On the one hand, you say that we are independent of the government, and on the other hand, you are surprised that the Minister herself does not have leverage to press on her parliamentary group. Like I said, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u177	Members and Members of Parliament, please follow the meeting. But if you're exhausted, we can break up in half an hour. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u178	As I have said, I would like this decision of the Constitutional Court to be suspended after these years, and I also appeal to the Ministry and to the whole government to draw up a law as soon as possible, which will also regulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u179	Mrs. Godec, please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u180	Just for the knowledge or replica of a colleague. It's already Islamic private school. Now you have to separate private schools that apply for accreditation of a public-level programme and private schools that act completely private. So they don't have a public program. Not even an inspector will go to school like this. That's what you've had in kindergarten now. You have a private kindergarten that's set up and, say, I have a baby, I put it in a private nursery, and then I sign it for the things that are there. But this private kindergarten may not even be accredited if I say so, certified at the Ministry of Education. Private schools, clean private schools do not implement publicly applicable programmes. And it's Islamic. But if you want to have a public program, you have to put it in the Ministry, this department, and so on, which looks at everything, humanely, materially and so on, if you're satisfied with these conditions. Separate and properly explain things – so much so that you know. It would probably be better if, in fact, the Ministry's representatives tell us exactly when someone gets a publicly valid program, when it comes to a fully private school.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Yeah, but you didn't raise your hand before. Mr. Ambassador raised his first hand and then you. Now I've got three informations; there's no replica on the replica. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] There's no replica to the replica. But you've got this bad luck that I'm running it now, and then she's gone. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] You have a replica, too? On your mission? But on him? Here you go. I'm just asking, that's probably allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you. I'll be very quick. You have told us that we do not separate the legislative and executive branch of power. Look, you brought a new standard into this Parliament. You've made it public on the committee that the amendments are written to you by the government. So let yourself take a look.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you for the brief, Madam Ambassador. Now you have the word, Mr Daniel Krivec, to prepare Mr Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! First, I'm gonna read something so we can know what we're talking about. I have written out the programming points that you have written in the coalition agreement and, inter alia, states that “constant respect for the principles of the rule of law, with an emphasis on true equality before a law that does not depend on the political, economic or other forms of social power of an individual, respect for the rights of each individual on one hand, and taking on responsibility and responsibility on the other.” [[…]] You wrote that down. There was also a lot of talk in pre-election and favorable times about the need to respect the Constitution. Finally, all ministers have sworn to respect the Constitution, and the Prime Minister of the Government has done so in Parliament before us. On the other hand, we have a decision by the Constitutional Court, which is the highest judicial authority in this country, which has written some things down, as you can see, four years earlier, and you can see for yourself that it is unacceptable that this is in some way to be carried out in terms of enforcement and regulation. We had previously heard from the former President of this National Assembly, whom I very much respect, but I was very surprised because our attempts to make the case defined by the Constitutional Court in its constitutional decision to the Office have been assessed as an abuse of the procedure. I see he's not listening. I hope he sees things later. However, I am very sorry because, as I said, I respect him very much, and I know that his case is probably missing because if the President was four years old and respected the rules of procedure and all legislation, he knows that there is no abuse of rules or procedures, nothing. We are obliged as Members of the things that the Constitutional Court orders the National Assembly to do as well. I think that he has much more responsibility and bad conscience, because four years as the most responsible among us could also solve this matter more actively. Even now, in its debate for me, I would say, pragmatically, it is a political decision. That is to say, in the National Assembly from now on, even when formal, valid things are coming to the table that the Constitutional Court will define, we will not respect this, but we will decide whether we respect something or not on the basis of some political definition. That was new for me. Otherwise, I am used to lawyers, that ten lawyers, ten opinions, but still: from someone who presided over the National Assembly, I did not expect such interpretation. Since he evaluated the Constitutional Court, he evaluated the National Assembly, put the whole matter back on the level of pure politicisation, not respect for some of the legal principles for which it has been so advocated all the time. You spoke earlier about the fact that the previous mandate would solve the matter. Indeed, there were some novelties in this procedure, but it must be accepted that in the previous term the coalition had a two-thirds majority and had every opportunity to settle the matter – it is said in its image – but it did not do so and left the matter to the next term. You also keep reminding us that there are several constitutional decisions that lie unfulfilled. This is true, but in this constitutional decision, all actors, both previous and current, have made a public commitment that when they take over the exercise in their own hands, these things will be settled. And when she first came to the table of solutions to enforce this constitutional decision, they ate their word. This is a big difference compared to other constitutional decisions, for which neither the public nor anyone else is asked why they are not implemented, but in this constitutional decision, both the previous President of the Government and the current President of the Government publicly ensured, at different levels, that constitutional decisions should be respected and enforced, because otherwise we deny both courts at all stages, because the Constitutional Court is the highest, but we signal that we do not respect the courts. You spoke earlier about calling on citizens not to respect this. That is not true, these are the statements of your current president who said in the interview that all judgments must be respected, and if the Constitutional Court has said that we must do so, we must do so if we are to give a signal that we respect the courts. That's what you're saying, not us. We brought you to the table a law that solves this. Not anymore. It is the first reading and the opportunity to supplement it in the next stages, to improve it if you want, and so on. The next stage of the hearing may also be delayed, but if you do not want to carry out the first stage, it means that you do not respect the courts. According to your President's statements, this means a lack of respect for the courts, in plurality, which means that citizens too are not obliged to respect the courts. That's a fact. That's what you're saying. This is a dangerous precedent. That is why this constitutional decision is so much more important than others, since all the actors who have been questioned in this matter and in the pre-election period and at the time when they took office have made sure that matters are settled. That's a big difference. Someone commits himself before us, to the Constitution, to respect the constitutional order and the rights and obligations arising out of it, and in the next step this denies it. Here's the problem, and I hope you're aware of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Brglez, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u186	I don't think we got along right. When I uttered a word called abuse – I absolutely know how to distinguish abuse politically from abuse in the legal sense of the word – and in the process that you solved me, the Constitutional Court gave me the right court, even though you wanted to condemn me and remove me before that. I know how to separate from each other, and this is proved by my practice in the previous Parliament. What I've said is, of course, exactly what I have is a legitimate right, and this is a political assessment of what's going on here today. We are in Parliament, we are speaking politically and we cannot avoid this on any issue. That's all I'm saying and nothing else. Don't pretend. The second thing I would like to mention, in fact, is that I absolutely agree that all branches of government must respect each other and exercise self-restraint. We are very far from this country, and I have also been a witness in the previous term, and I also think that I hope that the situation will be better now. It is valid for all branches; and the legislative branch is a separate branch of authority, so it is essential to distinguish with whom someone makes arrangements: either with Members or with the government. We are certainly not subordinated to the government by the constitution, but Members elect a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word is Yuri Leprechaun, get Alice Jeraj ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u188	Nice greeting on my part, too! As you know, I have read, actually also prepared a partial position of the Desus Group, which is why my colleague Lisca would ask us not only to read but also to write something and also to try to stand for what we are saying up there. First, I will speak only in defense of us Members Desus that, in the previous term, we have tried together with this coalition, the last, what to do and certainly did not work. As I said, the four votes were out of order for one thing to be resolved. As has been said, I agree with myself that in the end Desus said that the extended program is zero and the remaining 100 percent, so it is also true that it is not quite right. But I certainly think it's the right way to find a solution to this problem. We're not going to find him, so now we're going to tell everything on our side, and you're going to say everything on your side. That is why it was good, I was encouraged by my colleague, the proposaler, that discussions had already taken place in the previous year in order to somehow find a solution together to finance an extended programme in primary schools, public and private. So, even in private, in private. This is how I expect from this point of view, given that our treaty is said, and that it is also written that we have a purpose, why now, in my opinion, Members, because there are more than half of us — why should we not believe it? If it is said that in the coming year we will bring forth a law that will, as it will be, surely we will not make one against you again or abstain. [[…]] In short, the purpose of this coalition is, at least personally, to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Now I'd just like to tell everyone else that on this side I didn't hear anyone hate the one who goes to church to go to church. It's not foreign to me either. All our lives, for example, in local communities and congregations and individuals, we respect this history, and I do not know why this would be a problem now and why we would be hanging on to it — Christianity or non - Christianity. Let's put this aside, because I think that if we're all smart people, we're not going to put this at the top of the line, and if I put this side away, we're going to come up with a solution much easier. Since I was also a long-standing mayor and I tell you, the primary schools or localities of municipalities located at certain borders, at the Austrian border, the Croatian border, the Italian border, the Hungarian border – we must ensure that Slovenian language remains there. That is why we make sure that our schools located there or branch schools are still there. I've already said in my opinion that they wanted to shut down the school at the Osilnica, branch office, because it's irrational, but it's not that it's irrational; it's that the school has to stay there. Even with us, in our congregation, where we have two branch schools, the congregation also cofinanced them so that they would not leave the school. But I am only saying this because I am trying to convince you that this party, too, who wants to respect the constitutional decision to such an extent that we too will not feel defeated or lost, that we must find a way through which we will all be satisfied in the final stage. As I have already said, the constitutional decision must be respected in one way or another, but as far as I have read it, it reads - second, this newer decision - "is placed within the framework of publicly recognised and publicly applicable primary school programmes a clear distinction between compulsory and extended work of the programme". [[…]] As soon as I read it, it's written down. [[advertising from the hall]] . I agree, but look, you have to give some possibility that people who think otherwise or otherwise think that we will find a resolution because the Constitutional Court has not said so, and you must – you know that. However, it can make the Constitutional Court say without us — that is one solution. Just why do we have to accept this so that they can now say that this is how it's supposed to be? The municipality of Ankara was created this way – if that's right, I don't know. I think that we, who are in this House, should strive to adopt a law that will actually come from our side so that we can all be at least satisfied. But the winner will never be here, and you need to know that. Therefore, as I said, private schools, private schools, or Christian schools, or professional schools, or whatever, will not be established on the edge of ours, as I said before – and Janževa Gora. He won't! [[advertising from the hall]] . Okay, if he can't, now I don't know exactly. Look, he can't. Now, where does the location line up? If there is no school there, we have quit two schools, and then with local or municipal means, they have preserved the school that there is life there. It's probably not the interest of the one who sets it up to set it up there to have a loser. However, I agree, but it is not said for material costs, it is not for the building – it is all the thing that will set up this primary school. In my debate, I would like to take a look at this, however – I have now read this – we have 16 undeclared constitutional decisions. [[…]] It's not the first, it's the second, it's 16! As much as I've read. Now I haven't done it yet, but if there are 16, why there aren't any saved, there's got to be a reason. This should be the last: because we respect private property, we also respect different thinkers, and if anyone sets it up in our congregation we have one such school, which is set up purely for one situation, no matter what. [[…]] In short, it has no connection with the public, yet the local community has been partly supported and co-financed by joint programmes, joint meetings – that is not the problem. It is said that the local community in this primary education organisation is one of the main ones who will make sure that this will also be a reality. But my point is, schools in border areas where there's no borders, but it's a language border, so they have to stay. You say that it must not be established there if it cannot be established – well, I will read why it should not, but certainly whoever wants it would not be there. Because there's no first time, there's no students, there's no professors, there's nothing. [[…]] But we have to make sure that she stays there forever. So my point is to ask that we try to put up with a little bit and if it is said by the Ministry that we will be able to do this together next year, and if there was a proposal in the previous year or in the previous term that was close to a solution, then if you have already negotiated why not try again. However, if you have decided to choose this constitutional complaint, you will give it and it is not a problem. I want to solve the problem together as a parliament, not as a left, right. But it is clear; we who are now in the coalition see this differently than those who are in the opposition, and that is logical. I also have an interest in the fact that if I were in the opposition, I would be making laws all the time. It's nothing wrong. And the deal, and the conversation we have here, we agree that our camera is actually a speech. Every expression we have is that we can say that we did something. In short, I would just like to say that we're not going to the knife again, because I know you've thrown this decision four times before the National Assembly, and now for the fifth time, and if there's a promise, why don't we make it now that we're really going to save it. But we're never gonna do it like that, so it's 100 percent 100%, and that's what you need to know. Just like it's not going to be a hundred. [[Advertising from the hall]] Look, when you had a 100% mandatory, 85% extended program last year, and in this I see some solution, but if we don't want to see it, we'll never save it and find it. It's just my view of this problem, if we're going to solve it, but if we don't, we're going to keep going and going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Procedural first, Mr. Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u190	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. I suggest that you warn the SDS Members to give peace, because others would like to participate in the debate or they would like to listen to the other Members who are discussing and they are making unrest all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u191	Mrs. Godec, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u192	Mr. Nice, I am very glad that you are working hard for the local congregations, the mayors or yourself, to make sure that these schools are public. For the Osilnica – Mr Tank's proposal, a committee meeting was held and this school remained. However, as regards private schools on these slopes or elsewhere, the network of public schools is protected by the law of ZOFVI, Article 86 or 87, which states that a private school should not be established where it would endanger the functioning of the public network. So stop wasting your time by not having a private school set up there because they don't have any profits. That's not true. They must not establish and therefore honor those mayors and those who work for branch schools. Now, as far as I'm concerned, the colleague will probably say: the basic extended programme. Look at this part, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you very much. If we're talking about this marriage, we need to look at some things. Indeed, there is a lot of information that is half as if you have not read the law, as if you have not read the Constitutional Decision, as if you have not read the Education and Education Financing Act. I don't mean to be rude, but there are some basic things that you obviously need to say. It has been highlighted in some debates that private schools should now be abolished. Look, it's not working. It's not working. Public or private schools are not the issue today. In Slovenia there are public and private schools and this is permitted by the Constitution, which is why we have them. And now going back somewhere in 20 years, it won't work. Articles 54 and 57 of the Constitution refer to the fact that, therefore, private schools are allowed. Private schools aren't really private schools at all, because they're concession schools. This means that if you read Article 74 of the Education and Education Financing Act, the State has granted them a concession. Thus, the concession shall be awarded by a decision on the basis of a tender, awarded by the Minister, except for pre-school education granted by the local community. The schools awarded concessions by the Ministry shall be concluded with the Ministry and financed under this contract. Some of you cited European directives and the view that it is not necessary for the state to co-finance private schools. It's really not necessary. Only schools with concessions are co-financed with us. Schools that the state has told them – we know what concessions, public and private participation I don't know, obviously everyone doesn't know that these are schools with concessions and they explain private schools, but they don't. [[…]] Secretary of State, you've got all day to say something and you're not. If something doesn't hold what I said, you can fix me. Then some of us have a very high-quality public education. Yeah, no one wants to hurt him! We just want to settle some things that do not follow the Constitutional Court's decision or are unfair to some. Those who say that – colleague Brglez would rather not have private schools at all. The Constitutional Court has already ruled that the decision of the State not to allow private schools, but only public schools, in practice because of exceptional rigidity, the tendency of public schools is in principle no longer in proportion to the notion of a democratic society. So, the basis of democracy is that private schools are also available. In your position, the Ministry has written down since we have private schools, why we have them, how they are arranged. And he doesn't quite hold on to some of the particulars that were given here. We know very clearly. The public programme implemented in private schools is co-financed by the State. It has also been said that there are six such schools. Less than one percent. Less than one percent. And there is a big difference between them; at the Waldorf School of Ljubljana we finance the program 100 percent because it was established before 1996, at the Waldorf School of Maribor, the same school, and we finance the program 85 percent. Do you think that's okay? Are these kids who go to these schools the same? They're not! And that's 200 kids. 200 kids. A colleague of Violet's said it was an assault on public education. I said six schools, 200 children attend these schools, and we have 400 public schools plus branches, a total of 770 schools with 177 thousand children. Some of you read to schools with concessions to reject children. They really have to reject them sometimes, but not because they want to do the selection and they choose, but because there are usually more wishes as to how many cities there are. We could have many more private schools in Slovenia. You said: “Some people have a problem with Catholics, ” and 73 percent of citizens say they are Catholics or Christians, and they have three schools. [[…]] Three schools! How is this the fulfillment of the Constitution so that parents can raise their children in their own way and in the way they think they are doing? We're basically in violation of that. That is why we have both the law and the ZOFVI and so on, which allows us – but in the last years, I do not know how many years we have not set up a private school. So they are established, but they do not apply for a publicly valid programme, as has already been said by the State and the Minister, and therefore there are valid certificates here at the end. You don't have to go to some public school then do exams. Just as it used to be, sometimes it still is if there are high schools that aren't with concessions. Mr Perič of the SMC said that the Minister had stepped more decisively on the road to solving this problem. I do not see this determination, but I would suggest that my former Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič tell him that she has not taken a firm step enough and that is why things have not worked out. My colleague from Desus, you said we trusted the minister. Yeah, we believe a lot of times. And we're waiting another year and another year, and nothing happens. Then we do it because otherwise we can wait until we're all gray. It's gonna be the same problem as it was. Look. The Government of Mira Cerar, Mrs Brenčič, has prepared a proposal. In a coalition where you had a two-thirds majority, you were at the end of SD and Desus against. Colleagues from SMC, you're not coming together now. We'll tell you now. Since we know everything I mean, we've been following things for too long. [[…]] You come to us. We'll deal with it sooner, probably than you'll agree with SD. Because the SD has a problem here, because they've told us what the problem is. In normal democracies this is normal, and we, who are still far from it, are of course – God forbid to go to the opposition, but what to ask for a deal. We should ask the government now. I don't know how many times I've said this – the only time we've worked together like I do for my ideas, at the time of Janša's first government in 2004 until 2008, when we had a signed Partnership for Development with the Social Democrats who were then in opposition, and we aligned 70 percent of the laws with them. It took a lot of time, but in the end, we accepted a lot of things together. For me, it's a normal way to work, not permanent exclusion, and then condemning us not to cooperate. You're stronger, you should invite us to cooperate. Comrade Brglez said: "It is a cross-border political struggle." This one's really bad, isn't it? This one's really bad. Look at the magnetogram. I don't think it's necessary to comment, because you can tell yourself what you think about things. A colleague from Desus – earlier Jelka said well, open the Basic School Act and see article 15, which discusses the mandatory program – that is, what is compulsory public program, subjects, mathematics, physics, everything else – and then see article 20, which discusses the extended program. Where it is stated that the extended programme covers extended stay, morning protection, additional education, supplementary education, interest activities and teaching of optional selection items. It's all written down, but you know it. And it is very clear, it is very clear what is a public programme and a basic programme that is financed 100 per cent – and it must, because the Constitution states in Article 57, “Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds”. For all children; for those who are in public school, and for those who are in school with concessions. Since both work according to the same program, both end up receiving the same certificate, both have the same math hours and so on. Things and documents need to be looked at, and then we can talk about these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dr. Brglez, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u196	First of all, I'd like to replicate that misunderstanding that I've said anything that I'm opposed to private schools either with the public agenda or not. The fact is that neither from this nor from the point of view of the Member of Parliament can it follow either from my debate. Most likely, though, this is proof that we can listen to each other, that the second question is, we understand each other, or that we want to understand each other at all. The fact is that for what I have said, we do not need such a starting point and that this starting point has never been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Member Beautiful, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u198	I'll be very brief. Look, Mrs. Alenka, it's not a problem not to read what it is. We know that we have a public and private education that is compulsory. That's what we're talking about, because we're not talking about what's in there. Expanded program – I can read what it says. And I also know when we had elementary schools, the local communities created, say, superstandard. I agree, however, that the mandatory and extended programme is also 100 per cent funded in primary schools. Is that right? [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, now in Maribor, 85% of the funding of this Waldorf primary school, the one that was established before 1996, is 100%. Okay. But the point is [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm saying, that's what happened back then.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u199	Please, we respect the second paragraph of Article 75.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u200	Look, I'd like to be constructive, but then how can I discuss, say, when I say a number, then you go into details, if you know why we're talking. The constitutional decision represents 100 per cent of the funding of primary school programmes in public and private schools. Pika. Is he okay? That's it. [[advertising from the hall]] I didn't say anything else, I was just talking, and then we're going to say that I've expressed myself as an "expanded programme". But I was looking for a solution where we could come together. That's the only choice I've got. Then how am I supposed to argue, if every time an opposition member comes forward, then I feel like [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u201	Once again, I call on Members and Members to respect the second paragraph of Article 75, which states that no one may speak at the meeting of the assembly until the chairman gives him the floor. Let him speak. Here's to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u202	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to say that it really isn't my intention that we can now move out but we can go out, but I want to discuss because with the experiences I have, and with what we want to do, we are looking for a solution. [[…]] That's my choice. But then when you do, you get the first plate you haven't read the law. Look, man doesn't know everything. But the fact is, if we're talking about public and private, then we know what we're talking about. The Constitutional Decision constitutes a 100 % funding of public compulsory programmes. But then I went on to say that if we wanted to find a solution, that you wanted to step a little closer to finding it together, because it can't be now. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The Constitutional Court didn't say explicitly either, it didn't say explicitly. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u203	Please, please, let's hold on a little longer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u204	Just one more sentence, and I'll finish. In short, it was written "expanded program", but it is not. And here I can look for a solution so we can come together. Otherwise, I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Procedurally first, then the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u206	Look, if you're going to go like this, let's cut the session, call the computers, and we'll have the microphones they have at the American Congress for questioning. If that's what you're going to do. It's up to you to decide whether or not you're going to go like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The motioner, Ambassador Tomaž Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u208	Very briefly, Members of Desus, who seem to have a slightly shorter memory, even though they are in all governments all the time. We were looking for solutions. Your solution was the farthest from the solution advocated by the Constitutional Court's decision. So much for how much someone's willing to find solutions. If SMC has taken at least one step closer, you have taken four steps since the Constitutional Court's decision, so it is disrespectful today that the Members of Desus are speaking the most about how to find solutions. When the previous government's proposal was on the table, in addition to all four of ours, the Members of Desus were always the farthest from the Constitutional Court's decision. So, the joyous search for a solution will continue, but apparently with you will not be found by those rare advocates by the LMŠ and SMC who still believe in the rule of law, although they are apparently fewer and fewer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u209	Thank you very much. This concludes the list of debaters and brings us to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposalr will be given the floor. First of all, the representative of the government, Minister Jernej Pikalo, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman! I'll be brief, maybe I'll explain two things, because maybe the matter wasn't clear and clear. I said nicely that the government is committed to continuing its activities and trying to find an integrated solution at the beginning of the next calendar year so that they can enforce it by the beginning of the school year. That's one. Two, because there has been a lot of debate, I will therefore talk about four types of publicly valid primary school programmes from the rejection, separate opinion of Constitutional Judge Etelka Korpič, where I think this has been best explained – because there has been a lot of debate on one hand, on the other. Firstly, the publicly applicable primary school programme is implemented by public primary schools. Secondly, it is carried out by private schools with concessions. This is the relationship between the concessionaire and the concessionaire, which is not a normal bond ratio, but also the relationship between the authority and someone granted the concession. We had this type of school and program before the 1996 ZOFVI. Then we have a third type, these are private primary schools that are without concession, but have the same characteristics as private primary schools, pardon, these are private schools, I apologize for implementing the publicly valid programme, but only and only on the basis of the bond ratio, but this is not a concessional relationship. And that is the difference; whether it is only a question of the scope of the period and the method of funding. For the Concession is something else, and every lawyer will be able to say it without a hitch. We've had these programs since 1996. As a fourth type, they are private primary schools, which are without concession and without a publicly valid programme. So we have four types, and on this basis future legislation will have to be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u211	Thank you very much. A representative of the proposalr, Tomaž Lisec, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u212	Thank you, but it is still not clear which direction the Government will take in the preparation of the legislative proposal. Respected and respected, I am very sorry that today, instead of talking about good schools and bad primary schools — we are talking about primary schools today — an ideological battle has erupted on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court and on the basis of whether or not we will respect the Constitution. All those who said that we are going to the ideology, respected that we do not respect the Constitutional Court's decision, also speak the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, from one of our previous proposals, which is the same, "we believe that the proposal for a law abolishes the number – nnn – of the finding of non-compliance with the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution". [[…]] So you don't need to doctorate, you don't need to go to ideology, but you have the opportunity today at first reading to adopt a bill and then to classify it through a further legislative procedure with these different questions of yours, what is mandatory and what is widespread. Dear Minister, if you commit yourself to resolving this matter by the beginning of the school year, you will extend the violation of human rights to those parents, those children, for the entry is made in March and not September. Secondly, why don't I believe you'll come up with the right solution? Because at the Ministry, 95 percent are the same officials who will have a problem with the law. And secondly, because you belong to an SD party that has an ideological problem solving this matter. Even if you personally want to solve this matter, here I bet you'll be the former minister rather than the decision 100 percent realized. So, Your Honor, today when you decide whether to respect constitutional order or not. Several times they say that the Constitution is changing with a shaking hand, and I add that it is shocking that, on behalf of ideology, decisions of the Constitutional Court are not respected. And again. What will it take for the coalition to follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court? We think that it is enough to press the "for" button today and go to the second reading and read again all the uncertainties that we believe are derived from the Constitution, the decision of the Constitutional Court, the ZOFVI and the Basic School Act, where it is precisely written, which concepts are crucial in the field of primary school. Just like the last call one of the predecessors said. Today we must decide whether we are going in the direction set out in the Constitution, or whether we are going to undermine constitutional order because of ideology and wake up in the morning thinking that we expect all citizens to respect the Constitution, laws, regulations, regulations, regulations and other municipal decisions, and we, and Members, because of the ideology of this supreme act called the Constitution, will not respect it. It's a very simple decision. The vote is a vote for the Constitution and is a vote for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u213	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I can see that. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposaler Tomaž Lisec and the representative of the Government, please report by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. Seven reported. Everyone gets five minutes. The first one has the word Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna spend those five minutes. What is a consequence of today's debate is, in fact, some mutual knowledge that the Legislative and Legal Service, both for your law and for the law that was introduced in the previous term, says that it is the enforcement of the Constitutional Court's judgment, which proves the origin of the claims that I myself have defended or advocated by a party to the Social Democrats, and that is that there are more possibilities for enforcement. That's why the vote against the vote is to respect this constitution. Same as the vote for. And we are here – this is what I had to say because this is a fact that has been found literally in this debate and is crucial to the viewers who are watching us, as well as to our understanding and self-understanding of what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Chairman. Strange things happen to me all day long. I think that Slovenia is legal, especially legal – well, also a social state – but what is happening now, and even earlier, given that I am a new Member, I am almost out of hand. We are discussing whether or not a constitutional decision will be implemented. 16 unfulfilled constitutional decisions are already in place; and in a country that is supposed to be democratic, legal and I do not know what else. Now we find that this is essentially anarchy. If such things don't come true, then it's kind of anarchy. We've previously established investigative commissions. Is it the work of the National Assembly to investigate and to seek fault for something, or is the National Assembly a legislative body? What do the police do, what do the prosecutors do, what do the courts do? I'm seriously wondering if I really live in a country where there's a total anarchy. I'm sure you could discuss certain things, a certain circle of people who are privileged, others who are hard to live, and I don't know what else. You know, when I decided to go as an MP, I firmly believed in the need to respect the laws. As mayor, I respected the decisions. If the congregation council had made a decision, it was sacred to me. But here we are fighting, don't mind me having a feeling about the donkey shadow. The facts are clear, the facts are known and I expect the Minister to implement the Constitutional Court's decision in due course, as he promised. Maybe I resented someone, but still. That's the way it works. It doesn't go anywhere. After 20 years and a few years, it will be necessary to be sober and finally act as a legal country that has laws to respect, does not violate; it will have authorities to do their job and to drive to a better tomorrow. Because if that's not the case, then there's always gonna be a reason why someone's worth more than anyone else. I don't personally agree with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u218	Thank you again, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, I really do, I underline that, I will not tire you. I humbly asked you to tell me at least an approximate time frame, date, day-day, month-month, year-year, when you plan to eliminate the unconstitutionality in the law we are considering this time. I agree with my colleague Kramar, I just wanted some time frame. If you run a small project, it must also have a time component. But we're before Christmas, I'll give you peace, you're not obliged to answer to an MP, which some image would require. If I am already at Christmas, I must say that unfortunately I will not have them as relaxed as it would be a little indicated today that after four years we just want to abolish the constitutional decision, i.e. the unconstitutionality of the law. This is also because I have had some strange feelings today, and I think that Mr President of the National Assembly has removed it so quickly from the festive session of the Constitutional Court. Now let's just leave it. If I consider only this Article of the ZOFVI, as we say, which is unconstitutional and generally violates parents – I have also analyzed a little with the help of lawyers – and at least eight matters are being violated by parents and children. I don't have enough time. In violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, paragraphs 41 and 54 – in the magnetogram you will be able to check whether I speak résumé or not. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is being violated – we celebrate 70 years, which was published, and at the age of 70, Slovenia gives a gift that it does not respect human rights, namely Articles 26 of the General Declaration, 2 and 3. Then the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe, Article 9, then the Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, Article 2. Fourthly, UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966, 18th paragraph, UN International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 1966, 13th paragraph, European Social Charter, first part of the Charter, 7th paragraph. Week, Declaration on the Rights of the Child, UN 1959, point 2 and point 7. And the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child 1989, paragraphs 13. These are matters that make me very disappointed and repeat myself; even in the year when the Republic of Slovenia – which is not important – when the Republic of Slovenia chaired the United Nations Human Rights Council for the first time and we simply cannot eliminate violations of human rights for parents, citizens and citizens of this country, and for children, citizens and citizens of this country. This hurts me deeply, and I don't know if I'm going to hang black flags on the day of Slovenian constitutionality.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The word is Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u220	Fellow Member Kramar found out well, in Slovenia there has been anarchy for some time, and it is very good for someone. Respect for the laws, obviously, is little care in Slovenia. Only when I look at health care, people say, because it doesn't matter how he got the money, because the main thing is that I'm healthy, even if he steals a little, only that I'm healthy. So, everything apologizes, there's always some excuse not to respect the law. We have now come to the conclusion that we have 16 decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have not yet been implemented or amended laws, and when I asked the Minister at the hearing what he thinks about it or whether he intends to respect the Constitutional Court's decision on the financing of education and when he intends to resolve the matter, he said that the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected, but the priority of this government is not to regulate this matter. Therefore, dear members of the coalition, those who believe this will be resolved this year – either this year’s school year or next school year – given that this is not the priority of the government, which you will forget. The next thing is, how can the Minister say that it is not the Government's priority to implement the Constitutional Court's decision? This is an essential question that the minister, who swore a few months ago, a hundred days ago, says that this is not a government priority. I believe there are other matters, I believe; but the distinguished minister, not you personally, but your client has been in the government since 2014 – if I am looking only at the Constitutional Court. She agreed with the former Minister's proposal, you came along with this proposal, and then take that. Not since yesterday, you've been from school, in your party, in your coalition there are constitutional lawyers, the best lawyers, I don't know what they can brag about outside in the hallway to get to know the Constitution most, some of them don't know what laws. Don't tell me you can't write in a hundred days if you disagreed with that. So, the fundamental question, or what you report today, is that we will respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but we will not do so. It seems to me that what we report, what our colleague has also said, what we tell our citizens, is that laws, the constitution, do not have to be taken into account at all, let us do it our way, and of course it fits or corresponds to the many who, in the background, then lead their interests. As far as the matter is concerned, otherwise, there is now no colleague from Desus when he said, because the municipality is also paying for the extended programme, the superstandards. That's what we're talking about! That part of the extended program, which is super-standard, or the programme that follows the interests of this school, is not to be paid, we said. What is written in the law, however, should be paid, as decided by the Constitutional Court. But there's something you need to know. Take a look at the compulsory program of private primary school in Maribor. In the mandatory programme, which you, in the previous term, said that it would be 100 per cent funded and extended only 85, you have faith and culture in the mandatory programme. But something like that is an object. It's a mandatory object. And you've been fighting to finance such objects, if that's in the common sense. This is even part of the mandatory work. Look at the subject! Children must be required to visit this subject. Now you decide what you're going to fund. Or unfunded. So, Minister, in your statements, you'll probably now say that you didn't think as much as I said it wasn't a priority, but that's how it was heard, and the magnetogram is written like that. [[…]] If this is not your government's priority or priority, then this is also not a prime minister's priority. Constitutional Court, decisions must be respected and enforced.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u222	President, thank you for your word. Dear fellows! Today I heard some interesting sayings, mainly by the opposition in style, who is sinless, the first to throw a stone, or the one pointing a finger at the other, with three to show himself, or that the coalition does not want to respect the constitution for ideological reasons. Tell us how many years the Municipality of Grosuplje did not respect the constitutional decision – because, by the way, most members of the municipal council are from the party SDS – in a work where you did not wish to amend the statute which would determine that a member of the municipal council is also a representative of the Roma community. This Decision is from 2002. Isn't that what you were going to say? The matter, as I am aware, was settled at the end of 2017. And I'd better answer the question: 15 years has not been a respected decision of the Constitutional Court, my esteemed colleagues! Isn't that why you didn't avoid the Constitutional Judges? Perhaps that was why you were not ashamed of yourself in front of the Constitutional Judges on the occasion you met with them? Wasn't that an ideological battle? Last but not least, was it not then a democratic arrangement that was under question? But then maybe no one hung a black flag? These are the questions you asked us and I'm asking them back. As far as this law is concerned – and so am I, because we have all said everything, but I see it as an attempt to start to understand the school as a business. Such school management would force us to adapt to the principles of the market – this is a principle of money, the principle of the economy and, in fact, there is no place for these things at school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The word is "Ludmila Novak." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u224	In recent years, we have really debated this subject so many times that I think we have already told each other everything. But given that there are quite a lot of new Members, I will once again try to explain things as I think is the simplest and most understandable. In short, more than four years ago, the Constitutional Court issued a decision and ordered the National Assembly to adopt a law within one year to remedy these illegalities. Today, more than four years later, such a law has not been proposed or proposed several times — always rejected. Rejected by the coalition, of course. Then the former minister prepared a law with which only a number of circuits were sought again. As my colleague Koprivc said before – let us work something out. Really, I don't like numbers the most, but what's 100 percent, and I know what's 100 percent. However, there is no compromise in this. The Constitutional Court said 100 per cent of the financing of that mandatory programme. And this is a lot of deceiving when you say that private schools are being financed — no school funding, no program is being funded! However, school owners must build and maintain the school; in short, the state only has less costs if more children are enrolled in such schools because it only has to pay the compulsory programme. All that is added is paid by the parents of these children, who are also taxpayers and also have the right to have their children's compulsory primary school free of charge. And we know it's not free anywhere, that there's still too much to pay. So parents have the right to attend compulsory primary school, which is free of charge, because this school has a concession because it has all the permits because it's controlled, reviewed and so on. That's the whole point. Why is this subject and this marriage repeated so many times? Because you don't want to solve this problem! Do you know how much money this is? For a good 300 thousand euros a year! This is the annual salary of one well-paid manager. Therefore, it is evident that it is a matter of political conjecture, not of trying to comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision. You're looking for all kinds of circuits. Mr Minister, I hope that you will keep your word and that you will also get the support of the coalition, because the former Prime Minister of the Government visited the primary school of Aloysija Šuštar in Shentvid, he made public promises there and said: "We must do this, and this is not for any reason that we do not respect the decision of the Constitutional Court." The Prime Minister himself said that, but the law was not passed! If we'd come to the opposition, I would have been, but apparently it wasn't the right will. What Mr Kramar used to say, I really admire him that as a coalition Member he hoped to say because he spoke truthfully. None of my children attended any of these six schools, but the grandson does not attend it, but I simply cannot believe that on the shoulders of these children and those parents who are not rich people, but the parents who see in these different teaching approaches and raise some value and therefore have enrolled their children in these programs. For more than four years on the shoulders of these children and these parents, we have been fighting here, rejecting all solutions, and going to some political struggle. I am not for Christians, non-Christians, lefts, rights, but here it is a simple solution to a problem that could have been solved long ago, EUR 300,000 a year, and here we are arguing indefinitely. That's really sad. That we have so politicized this simple question and we can be truly ashamed when the Constitutional Court only decides on it without us, because we have had the opportunity to fix it and we have not done so.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec has the floor as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you. Jadranka Sovdat: "Any unrespected decision of the Constitutional Court constitutes a violation of the principles of the rule of law and the division of power." That is why we do not agree with the SDS Group on the words of SD Members who say that the vote against is also a vote to respect the Constitution. Why? Firstly, the decision of the Constitutional Court is clear. Second of all, there's a law that solves this. Thirdly, that the law is the solution to the Constitutional Court's decision is based on the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, which considers that the proposal for a law removes the finding of non-compliance with Article 57(2) of the Constitution. So, respectable, respectable! It grieves me that today so many words have been spoken against the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and even against the Constitutional Judges of the Republic of Slovenia who claim that politics postpones the decisions of the Constitutional Court only because it disagrees with them. Today you have the ideal opportunity to break off this platform of action based on ideology, which is why you do not want to comply with the Constitutional Court decision. Mr. Secretary, in one of your client colleague's discussions 10 minutes ago, you received an assurance that I, unfortunately, gave you, even though even a few times before you were a minister, I said on Twitter that I wouldn't mind if you were the minister. But once again, you will be the former Minister, unfortunately, before the Constitutional Court's decision, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Let me get this straight. This is the Constitution, the highest legal act in the country. And here the President of the Government and every time minister swears: “I swear that I will respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia.” Today, one of the ministers has the opportunity to perhaps, within half an hour, urge the ruling Members not to bother, not to have an ideological fight, but to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and to give a vote for the law in the first reading, and then we all meet together at a meeting of the mother's working body, together with the Constitutional Judges, together with perhaps some interested public and finalize a proposal for a law. But to complete it by continuing to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and not by getting the law back, because it will be again in a few years' time that we have also violated the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia in this composition of the National Assembly. Respected and respected! If we expect an individual citizen to respect legal acts, it is right to start respecting the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia as members of the executive and legislative branch of power. So once again, and probably for the last time, we're asking for your support. It will also depend on your support or non-support for the law whether we will trigger the 109th article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia tomorrow, which speaks of what happens to the President of the Government who does not respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you and good night!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly, which we shall continue by vote at 9:30 p.m., in half an hour. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 9.04 p.m. and resumed at 21.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u228	Dear fellow Members! If you agree, we would proceed with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, with the assembly voting on the following order: 9, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 items on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the delegation, Mr. Tonin? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u229	The New Slovenia Group will support the proposed law. We will vote in favour of the law being suitable for further consideration. This law is about equality. Are we like this house to follow the pay for the same work? In New Slovenia we say yes. It is a question of whether public programmes will be equally financed everywhere. In New Slovenia we say yes. We find it difficult to understand all those who have problems with content – the content is a publicly valid program depending on where this program is being implemented, on what walls this program is being implemented. Therefore, if this programme is implemented for the walls built by the municipalities or other state budget funds, then these publicly applicable programmes are financed 100 %. If these public programmes are implemented for the walls financed by a private person, they shall be financed only 85 per cent. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that there is no reason for the same programme to make a difference in funding for the same content. Therefore, the decision of New Slovenia is clear: the decision of the Constitutional Court and the decision of the Constitutional Court must be implemented. And today, with this law, we have a unique opportunity to do this together. I don't think the excuses about how wrong marriage is are necessary because it's a first reading. Anyone in this country who respects the rule of law, who respects the work of the courts, then cannot press another key for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Lisec, on behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u231	Your Honor! Last time today. This is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where it is precisely written in Article 57, “Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds”. Here we have a decision of the Constitutional Court of December 2014, which is very clear; that the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is inconsistent with the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly should abolish this established unconstitutionality within one year. Four years — nothing happened. Today we have one of the last attempts to resolve this unconstitutional situation. Dearly respected, even if you think that any sentence in this article, which we are opening – 86 – is problematic, you have the opportunity today to give the law the opportunity to further regulate the law in a more nominal way. However, in the SDS Group we will not agree to barter about human rights violations and we will not agree to barter over the Constitutional Court's decision. Respected and respected, once again. All ministers and heads of government swear to respect the constitutional order. Unless the constitutional order is respected by the ministers and the Prime Minister and, last but not least, we do not respect it as legislators, how can we expect citizens and citizens to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, which are enshrined in the Constitution, laws, regulations and other norms and rules. In short, the Constitution is above the ideology pursued by individual political parties in the National Assembly and the Constitution is that the Minister or the government coalition decides, in accordance with its conscience, to implement or fail to implement a decision of the Constitutional Court in accordance with its daily policy. Today it is not a matter of public or private concern; it is only a key issue – respect for the Constitution and respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court: yes or no or no. We will be in the parliamentary group for the law and for compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u232	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I see two more reports, I assume, on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Mrs Violeta Tomić and Dr Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u233	Thank you, Madam President. We will vote against this bill in the Left Group. It is true that Article 57 of the Constitution states that primary education is compulsory and is covered by public funds, but in Slovenia we have a quality, accessible public education that excludes no one and is fully funded. Whoever wants any other education, any other education, should pay for it, not only 15 per cent of what we are talking about today, but the set, because as long as we have public education, which is everywhere and which is accessible to every elementary school child in Slovenia, there is no need for private education, unless there are other interests here at work, either profit or ideology, which we will not agree to in Levica. That is why we strongly oppose this. Today we again had one day of the SDS. We know that voters are sensitive to these issues, of course, and here today we have heard something about how we must now all who are mostly church schools – and as I have already said in my position, the RCC in Slovenia is not exactly an institution that we should not know how much to help. They got forests that weren't even theirs when you gave them back. There were documents that they sold a long time ago. They got a lot of real estate, grants when we talk about abuse, see, even during the election campaign, Karitas was abused by a person who was a political option. In short, we have education and education is fully funded and in Levica we are fully satisfied with public education and private pay private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u234	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We respect the Constitution in the case of Social Democrats, we also respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but we know that there are several ways for the implementation or enforcement of this constitutional decision, for which services which are also relevant to us, and this is the Legislative and Legal Service, they have found that they can be compatible. So we have a choice, and it's what choice we're actually going to make: or what strengthens the existing public school network – that is, the public service, the public service that makes it possible for everyone to do the same – and by doing so we adequately enrich the space with what is also acceptable within international documents, as a private form of education that must exist and be available in democratic societies. That is why this proposal will be rejected for the fifth time; I repeat – for the fifth time. And next time we will also talk about a proposal that will be constitutionally coherent. I hope that either one or the other will finally be able to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, which we are also able to do in accordance with the division of power in this country within the discretion that the legislator can name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u236	Thank you. Dear Members, we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is on the defence proposal for the legislation on the ratification of the agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence of Georgia on cooperation in the defence area. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Klemen Grošl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Allow me to briefly present the agreement. The agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence of Georgia on cooperation in the field of defence was signed on both sides in October 2018 at the side of the ministerial meeting of the Defence Cooperation Initiative in South-Eastern Europe, in which the two countries participate. We expect the agreement to provide, after ratification in national parliaments, the necessary formal legal basis for the development of defence and military cooperation between countries and allow for the strengthening and expansion of cooperation in the defence field, which is essentially of interest to both sides. Cooperation in the defence field between countries is already under way and has now taken place in occasional bilateral agreements, in particular in the field of education and training. However, the need for more comprehensive and bilateral cooperation is reinforced mainly by the implementation of enhanced cooperation within the framework of NATO Georgia, as well as within the framework of the European Union initiatives. Bilateral cooperation between the ministry or the state of defence at bilateral level takes place mainly in the field of training of joint fire routers, mountain fighting at the NATO Centre of Excellence for Mountain Fighting in Bohinjska Bela and language training at the School for Foreign Languages in Ayševica. Finally, this document continues to support Georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. The integration in NATO is valuable among the priority foreign policy objectives of Georgia and the support of the Republic of Slovenia in this regard, and the Republic of Slovenia has already sent a civil functional expert to Georgia in the context of this cooperation, which worked for a period of one year in the field of the protection of communications and intelligence. The main purpose of this cooperation is to provide joint training, introduction, training and equipment and exchange of experience to increase Georgia's readiness for future NATO membership. At the same time, the Republic of Slovenia also cooperates with Georgia in the field of protection and rescue, and in May 2017, the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia hosted a delegation of the Office of State Security and Crisis Management, as well as with Georgian colleagues, in the framework of an international project for the training of firefighters in the event of hazardous substances accidents and in the event of internal fires. On the basis of this, we propose that you support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which has been a mother's labour body and has reported in writing to us. I find that there are no applicants for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments to the meeting cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 6. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on the amendment and the amendment of the agreement on social security between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Macedonia and the agreement on the amendment of the administrative agreement on the implementation of the agreement on social protection between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Macedonia. The draft law was tabled by the Government and the State Secretary, Mr Tillen Bozič, has the possibility of further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u239	Mr President, thank you for saying so! Dear Members, good evening! The proposal for a law submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for consideration by the National Assembly is intended to remove a stricter condition for obtaining the right to compensation for unemployment than is now laid down in other agreements or in accordance with our domestic legislation. The government underlines that this is not a new matter, but rather an end to the inequality or discriminatory treatment of workers from the Republic of Macedonia compared to workers from other countries in the area of the previous common country, workers from the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area and workers from countries with which the Republic of Slovenia does not have a bilateral agreement. The government believes that it is treating unequally the damage to the reputation of our country and the interstate relationship with Macedonia, and it is also causing difficulties in implementing the current agreement. With the proposal of the law, the Government proposes to amend the provisions of the Social Insurance Agreement relating to two matters. First of all: receiving unemployment benefits and receiving child allowances requires permanent residence arrangements for obtaining unemployment or child benefits is abolished and is provided for as a condition for temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia. However, I would, of course, point out that, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, irrespective of the text of the agreement, the right to a child allowance is already recognised to applicants when they fulfil the condition of permanent or temporary residence of course to applicants from Macedonia, and the proposed amendment to the agreement will only reflect the actual situation already established. This eliminates, as previously said, this unequal situation. Second, referrals to treatment in the territory of another State Party. This is a provision concerning the posting of an insured person to the territory of the other Party for the treatment required by his medical condition and the costs of such treatment shall be borne by the competent institution where that insured person is also insured. The solution shall enable and facilitate the treatment of persons in another State Party, provided that the first Contracting Party is unable to do so. With regard to the financial implications of the draft law, the Government underlines that the employment obligation of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia following the amendment of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Macedonia will be roughly higher by approximately EUR 317 000 in 2019 and will be covered under the existing budget heading. In view of all the above, I ask you to support the proposal of the law before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The competent parent body shall be the Committee on Foreign Policy, which shall report in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the day-to-day basis, this is a defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement establishing a Medamerican Investment Corporation. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. You have the floor, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Dronja Method. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u241	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! In 1993, the Republic of Slovenia inherited the Agreement establishing the Inter-American Development Bank and adopted the Act on the Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in this financial institution. In this way, she took over the membership of the Medes Development Bank after the former SFRY. Three years ago, at the annual meeting of the Board of Governors of this Bank, a decision was taken to reorganise the Bank, namely that the Inter-American Development Bank remains a major public sector funder and public sector projects, while private sector projects were transferred to the Inter-American Development Corporation, which was established in 1985. The SFRJ was not a member of this Inter-American Development Corporation, which is why Slovenia was not able to acquire these shares, but the funds earmarked for the operation of the Inter-American Development Corporation were partly provided by the transfer of retained profits from the Inter-American Development Bank. Among all members of the Inter-American Development Bank, three countries did not join the establishment of the Inter-American Development Corporation. At a meeting three years ago, this bank gave the opportunity to transfer the outstanding retained profits of these countries as capital to the Inter-American Development Corporation. If they had not taken advantage of this option, this bank would not have paid off these retained proportional parts of its profits. The amount of these retained profits is estimated at EUR 14 000 869 at the end of last year, and this amount will increase by the end of 2025 after a profit projection of USD 215 000 605. By adopting the proposed law, Slovenia will ratify the Agreement establishing the Inter-American Investment Corporation and will address certain issues relating to the implementation of membership in this international financial institution. This will also open up opportunities for the Slovenian economy to participate in the projects financed by this financial institution. At the same time, the funds to be paid into the capital of the Inter-American Development Corporation are considered official development assistance from the United Nations Agenda for Sustainable Development by 2030. The government proposes that the National Assembly support the law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the Inter-American Investment Bank. Let me also say interestingly that the former Minister of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, has worked at the Medes Development Bank for more than 25 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u242	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported to us in writing. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Point 19, this is the defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its member states on one side and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on the other side, submitted by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who also reported to us in writing. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on the amendment of the European Convention on the Territory. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law also treated the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body reporting to the assembly in writing. There were no applications for discussion. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of the Vesal, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Since the points 21 and 23 are substantively linked, allow me to make an introductory presentation together. The Treaty on Space is the basic international treaty governing the functioning of the State in space. The Treaty governs the principles and principles of operation and the participation of countries in the study and exploitation of the universe exclusively for peaceful purposes. It has been ratified by 107 world countries and almost all European countries, Slovenia is not yet among them, so we have tabled a proposal for ratification. Area of the Universe [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the Secretary of State to explain to us the position of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The area of the universe is regulated internationally by five conventions, the basic treaty on space and four conventions. For an unknown reason, the SFRJ has never ratified the basic treaties on space and has ratified all four conventions. The Republic of Slovenia has already inherited two conventions by means of an instrument of succession ratification, namely the Agreement on the Rescue of Astronauts and the Convention on the International Indemnity Obligation for Damage caused by Space Vehicles. In order to regulate the area in Slovenia, this requires ratification of the Space Treaty and confirmation of the legacy of the Convention on Registration in Space of Launched Objects. We are assessing for the Fifth Convention, this is the Moon Agreement, that there is no need for an approach in view of the activities of Slovenian companies at this time. The reason for the initiative was the development of space technologies in Slovenia. In 1916 Slovenia became an associate member of the European Space Agency ESA, and at the same time two satellites were developed in Slovenia, which are planned for launch in 2019. In accordance with the international regulation of the area, space objects launched into space are entered in the register of space objects at the United Nations and must first be entered into national registers which we do not yet have in Slovenia. We therefore propose that Members and Members of this law support and give an opportunity to draw up a national law to regulate this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u246	Dear Members and Members, Madam Secretary of State, the enthusiasm is so great that I believe here that we will get all the votes we have. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There were no applications for discussion, let's just say that we stick to it — if you don't mind? Thank you. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. We didn't make it. There are 74 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, that is to say the draft law on the ratification of amendments to Annexes I and II to the Convention on the Testing and Marking of Products from Tribal Metals. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u247	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The purpose of the proposal for a law on the ratification of amendments to Annexes I and II to the Convention on the testing and labelling of products of noble metals, which you are deciding today, is to adopt certain necessary amendments to the Convention, which have been previously adopted at international level. The first is the introduction of some new technical concepts in the field of precious metal products. However, a second set of amendments to the Annexes to the Convention introduces the rule that a laboratory for the analysis of products of noble metals must demonstrate its competence throughout its lifetime and not only at the time it is notified to the Convention as an authorised laboratory. Accreditation or other equivalent procedure shall be recognised as proof of competence for work. In Slovenia, all proposed amendments to the Annexes to the Convention, which we ratified in 2008, are supported. This is an urgent modernisation of the technical rules. At the same time, we meet all the requirements for an authorised laboratory, since, within the framework of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for metrology, which is the body of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we have been trained to analyse a laboratory with appropriate accreditation. I therefore propose that you support the ratification of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u248	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The proposal for a law is to be considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent body that has reported to us in writing. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for an act amending and supplementing the act on the notification of an inheritance in respect of the conventions of the United Nations and the Conventions adopted by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The draft act was tabled by the Government. He was treated as a mother body by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which he reported to us in writing. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I am finalising the second reading of the draft act and moving on to a decision on the proposal for an act. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the act has been adopted. With this, honourable Members, I conclude this agenda item and the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
