ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 37th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mr Jan Škoberne, Dr Vinko Gorenak, mag. Andrej Shercelj, Dr. Ange Logar, Mr. Dusan Radič, Mr. Peter Wilfan, Dr. Franc Runček from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer until 11 p.m., Mr. Ivan Škodnik until 3 p.m., mag. Dušan Verbič by 3 p.m., Mrs. Andreja Potočnik from 3 p.m. on, Mrs. Vlasta Pocakj, Mrs. Vojka Šergan by 2 p.m., Mrs. Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, mag. Aleksander Kavčič, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec from 16:00 on, Mr Matjaž Han from 10 a.m. to 17 p.m., Mrs Iva Dimic from 18:00, Mr Tomaž Gantar from 12 noon on, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Miha Kordiš. I welcome everyone here, and I hope I haven't read anyone twice. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed bill on the education of adults within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andreja Barle Lakota.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members, thank you very much for your words! Indeed, I am pleased to present this law for a number of reasons. Firstly, because it is an extremely complex law and it has really required a lot of coordination and work with all stakeholders. Secondly, since this is an area that is often overlooked, this area is often in the shadow of discussions on formal education, and in fact formal education in the modern world is a necessary but insufficient condition. This means that the area covered by this law is becoming increasingly important. That is also the case with the European Union indicators. One of the most important indicators of the European Union is access to informal education. Unfortunately, research shows that accessibility to informal education, i.e. to the area covered by this law, is quite high in Slovenia, but not for all, especially for those who would need it most, for so-called vulnerable groups. In order to eliminate the fact that education is more accessible to these groups, we have also begun to prepare legislation. That before you a new law, and not a change and addition to the existing one, shows how much the circumstances in which informal education works have changed and how necessary new interventions have actually been. What did we want to do with this law? The main objective, as I have already said, was to increase the accessibility of informal education to particularly vulnerable groups by clearly defining the obligation of the State to access informal education to clearly determine the scope of public service in this area – so far it has not been established to clearly define the programmes and, of course, the activities that belong to this area, precisely in order to establish a clear structure. Only a clear structure can ensure greater accessibility. It is said that what the law brings is primarily the responsibility of the State to the area of informal education. As I have already said, the law is complex, it has required a number of reflections, it involves very different stakeholders, so it has been coming up for quite some time. To all those who have participated in the meditation, too, thank you very much for this. Finally, let me just say that we support the two amendments tabled on the amended bill and, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third hearing be held at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u4	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! At its 40th regular meeting on 11 January this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the proposal for a law on adult education submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect, the proposed law has been examined by the Legal and Legislative Service and its representative has explained that they have made comments, in particular, on the protection of the rights of individuals and on the internal compatibility of the bill. The latter were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. He also gave his opinion to the Council of State, which supported the bill. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by the representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andrej Barle Lakota. The discussion focused on the envisaged composition of the board of the institution, the conditions for the appointment of a director, the financing of adult education by local communities, the necessary education for the management of organisational units, the envisaged fines for inadequate premises and equipment in which education is carried out, the possibility of obtaining a publicly valid education for participants in adult education, their rights and benefits and the importance of non-formal education. They also submitted their position to the meeting, which presented problems in practice in their field of operation and explained what they would be able to do with the adoption of the law. Following the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! In Levica, of course, we welcome the new adult education legislation because it clearly identifies the public service and the public network in this area and thus provides the basis for stable financing of this public service. It is proposed that public service providers be provided with funds from the State budget. Why is that important? Because current legislation does not regulate public services and public networks in the field of adult education, co-contractors, I am thinking mainly of human universities facing unstable funding. They are tied to annual calls that do not allow for long-term development, because public institutions only find out somewhere in the middle of the year which programmes can be implemented during the ongoing year. This law corrects to a certain extent when it defines as a public service the primary school programme for adults and advisory activities, which includes, inter alia, the inclusion of adults in primary school programmes and in public and non-formal education programmes. While the law could set public service to a greater extent, many adult education programmes remain dependent on the above-mentioned tendering measures. Nevertheless, it is a step forward in the right direction in this area. In Levika, education is seen as a key instrument for combating social inequality and social exclusion and not as an individual investment only in human capital. Education must strengthen values of solidarity, autonomy, criticism, cooperation, tolerance, environmental responsibility and peaceful coexistence and non-violence. We are therefore working towards education within the framework of a public education system that serves the development of each individual and individual, in accordance with their interests and abilities. It must be equally accessible to all, regardless of social situation, origin or place of residence, and must be directed by social needs and not by profitable motives. This also applies to the adult education system. This must serve not only the integration of individuals into the labour market but, above all, their personal development and social inclusion. The instrumental designation of knowledge as human capital, focusing on the acquisition of market competition tools, is contrary to the above values of solidarity and cooperation. In spite of the well-intentioned proposal, there has also been, perhaps inadvertently, a violation of the rights of adult education participants who are educated under public-level higher vocational education programmes. These are not eligible under this proposal for scholarship, nutrition, stay. We have therefore drafted an amendment in Levica, in accordance with the proposal's purpose, which corrects this error. If our amendment is adopted today, our restraint will be lifted, and we will support the law in Levica. If I have correctly understood the Secretary of State, I agree with this amendment to support it, and I hope that the National Assembly will be so wise that it will support it, because instead of us no one else will think and consider where to take this society and the country. With some of our wealth, which we have, water, forests, renewable energy sources, obviously, after 25 years, if we draw the line, there is in particular a lack of practical use of intelligence, based on many knowledge. And this marriage is in the right direction to finally put an end to this manna. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u7	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! Dearly beloved, the bill to regulate the public service in the field of adult education was expected from a long time ago in 1996. And after amending the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, twenty years later, we finally met him. The proposal for an adult education law ahead of us will define a public service in adult education and a network of public adult education organisations that will carry out the public service. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we welcome such a step, which is why we will also support the proposed law. While our support for the bill is not questionable, we agree with some of the concerns expressed during its consideration. We are most disturbed by the structure of the Council of the Institute, which is foreseen by the proposal of the law, namely that the Council of the Public Institution consists of two representatives of the founder, two representatives of the workers, and one representative of the adults who are educated in the public institution, if so provided by the act establishing it. It may be problematic to appoint an adult representative to the Council of the Institute, who is a participant in education. Education programmes are very long and the choice of an individual to represent the interests of all is extremely difficult. Also, due to the estimated number of members of the board of the institution, we place it as a tab on the scale. On the other hand, if the act establishing an adult representative in the world of the institution where it is being educated does not provide for the rapid availability of the so-called status quo in several decisions. Thus, we have two representatives of the workers against two representatives of the founder. The proposal does not appear to have been considered in this way. However, I hope that such a provision in practice will not lead to problems. We are pleased that, despite the concerns expressed, the law has the support of all parliamentary groups. We want the Government to adopt a similar approach in some other important policies that require fundamental changes and solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u9	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! We also welcome the proposal for the Adult Education Act in our parliamentary group, because we believe that there has been a systemic law that provides answers to most organisational, professional and financial questions regarding the regulation of a very complex area of adult education. In particular, we can highlight a more stable financial regulation of activities that will undoubtedly contribute to an even greater interest in the programmes implemented under this activity. We are also aware that there will still be some open substantive issues, which have also been highlighted at the meeting of the home labour force, but we believe that this does not diminish the importance of the good solutions that this proposal brings to the law. In the Adult Education Sector of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, it was pointed out that, with regard to the right of interest of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, the last indent of the fourth subparagraph of Article 54 of the law provides that the criteria to be taken into account in determining the scope of the public service are, inter alia, the presence of national and ethical groups. Because of such an opinion in the previous stages of the adoption of the law from a national point of view, we did not engage in the debate in a substantive sense, as far as this context is concerned, nor did we have any comments. After re-examination of the draft law, we initially assessed that it would be more appropriate that the earlier indent of Article 54, paragraph 4, may be amended or abandoned and replaced by a new paragraph, which should be worded approximately as if the public service was organised in a national mixed area, the content, activities and criteria followed mutatis mutandis the legal provision applicable to that area in the field of education and bilingual business. However, after consulting the Ministry, we have only decided not to table an amendment in this direction, in particular in view of the interpretation that the law will be followed by a sub-legislative act that will somewhat similarly break down and define the criteria to be followed, at least we hope, in determining the scope of the public service. We therefore propose that, at that time, particular attention should also be given to this issue, since there will undoubtedly be a need to complement certain things in the sub-legislative act from a specific point of view of the nationality-mixed area. Nevertheless, as I have already said, the proposed amendment will receive our support and the bill itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives, representatives of the Ministry of Education, colleagues and colleagues! The new Act on Adult Education, which we now have on the parliamentary benches, although it seems to be of foreign importance, is one of the more important laws in the field of education and education that we are adopting in this mandate. After 20 years, the law finally establishes a public service and a public network of adult education organisations. This is important if not the most important solution to the new law, which has remained for too long merely as a dead statute on paper, although the umbrella law in the field of education and education has provided for the provision of a public service in the field of adult education since 1996. Of course, the new law is not only important for the creation of a public service, for the provision of stable and predictable funding, but rather represents an important response of the country to changing social circumstances and growing trends that create new challenges, but also opportunities. Recognizing that education, which ends in youth, is no longer sufficient for either individual or society as a whole, is a reason for the increasing importance of lifelong learning. The idea of lifelong learning is more pronounced than ever, and current research on adult skills reminds us of the advantages and disadvantages of the adult education system. Slovenia needs to do more in the field of education and training for older people in lifelong learning as well as in improving the skills of the working population. The proposed law provides a solid basis for achieving these objectives. A relatively high consensus was reached at the meeting of the parent working body on the content of the bill. With the proposal of today's amendment to Article 23 of the Law, we have succeeded in bringing the best possible quality in the implementation of informal education programmes to an appropriate degree in bringing the minimum skills and work experience of educators into line with the programmes that will be established every time a public call is made. It is estimated that the proposed amendment of the Levica Group is also relevant, since the individual rights of participants in adult education and other participants at different levels of education and the conditions for their eligibility are replaced by the sectoral laws and there is no need for this to be repeated in the Adult Education Act. The relationship of society to lifelong learning will only improve if its benefits are tangible to the widest possible circle of people and if barriers to entry are removed. In doing so, we want a happy path. However, in the SMC Group, we will of course support the two proposed amendments to the amended law and, of course, the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u13	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u14	Good-bye! We all know that education does not end with formal education, but education and learning continue throughout life. When we talk about adult education, a lot of people think about education in the part where age is over 60 years old, when people go to retirement, but it is important to know that adult education can take place from 16 years later, even for those who do not end up in formal education, they can be integrated into institutions, public institutions that provide adult education. The accessibility of these public institutions in Slovenia and the public network in Slovenia for adult education is important. So this law somehow does not create a new public network, but only confirms the one already established and is, I think, very well represented in some 34 human universities throughout Slovenia, it is also arranged to cover the entire territory of Slovenia. However, what is commendable in this law is that public service is now being laid down, so that even the end of the human university will know what public service is or where they can expect the state to meet its obligations, including funding. Of course, it is a public service, which now includes primary schools and advisory activities. Which is commendable. This law thus somehow lays down the State's obligations and responsibilities towards adult education, particularly to informal education, and also makes it possible to have better access to informal education and especially to vulnerable groups. Of course, this law is not ideal, no law is ideal and neither is this law, but I think that, as we have heard on the committee, also by the Secretary-General, it is somehow a compromise between the various actors involved in adult education, and I think it is a very good compromise myself. Of course, there are some open questions that will emerge through implementation itself. I am particularly concerned about the duties of the congregations. The municipalities are the founders of adult education institutions. Sometimes mayors in municipalities, including in municipal councils, are full of mouths, how they support them, express public interest in adult education, when it comes to funding, write an annual plan for adult education, and it stops there. Then it is the initiative of those who do so to remind the congregations of this. The new law states that an annual work plan or adult education plan is needed, which is good, but I find it difficult to believe that the municipalities here will also be able to continue to finance this adult education in the new perspective. In fact, when there is a lack of funds in the municipalities, including by the state, as a result of which, of course, in the municipalities, usually funds are taken on education, on culture, on such things as are not immediately known, but in time. I am concerned that the municipalities here will raise their hands and say that public interest is, but that there is no financial means. I don't see any mandatory funding in the law either, that is, certain funding for the municipalities. But, I say, this is probably a compromise with the founders or with the congregations. We have also had concerns in the parliamentary group itself, as has already been said, about the composition of the institution's world. In the world of the institution, it is now written that two of the founders, two of the employees, can be one of the participants, if so written in the Public Institution Act. Most of the time, however, in my opinion, there are only four representatives of the congregation, two employees, which can then also mean the status quo in the public office itself when there is a decisive vote. This can also involve, for example, the appointment of directors, and there may be minor problems here. I hope that this will be as little as possible, but of course there will then be some additional amendments to the law if this proves to be done later. We have also had doubts about the level of education for heads of organizational units. In fact, we believe that it would be sufficient for an organisational unit to be led by an expert or worker who has at least the first level of education, that means university education or higher education, that he does not need to be a master. I think that we should also take more account of the work experience, the informal knowledge gained. I must say that, personally and in the Group of Members, we are opposed to the sharp tightening of the level of education in non-formal education. For we believe that the degree in these is not as important as the work experience in a particular area you are teaching. Otherwise, we fully support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marinka Levičar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Hello, everyone! In modern society, knowledge is extremely important. However, as the importance of knowledge and skills management is increasing, the need for continuous renewal and complementarity of knowledge is also growing. In a variety of fields of knowledge, an individual is faced with the daily challenges of individual life periods for the various work he is doing in his active age. As a result, adult education is an increasingly important topic due to the rapid development of constant changes and new challenges in society and in the lives of an individual. That is why I agree with the Secretary of State, who, at the hearing of the parental committee of this law, said that it was not actually adult education, but lifelong education or lifelong learning. Preparations for the renovation of such education have been under way for a long time, and the fact is that without analysis of the actual situation and the needs of society, it was impossible to prepare a good law. In the DeSUS Group, we have assessed that the law being tabled is well prepared and that is why we are already predicting its support. At the time of the consideration of one of the novels of the Laws on Financing for Education and Education, Members and Members of Desus welcomed in particular the point of content relating to the legal commitment following the establishment of a network of public adult education organisations. The public network is also one of the priorities set by the Republic of Slovenia in the Resolution on the National Adult Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013-2020. Thus, the main purpose of this law was to pursue these aspirations and define a public service in the field of adult education as well as a network of public service providers. In the Desus Group, we believe that by establishing the legal basis of the public network of adult education organisations, a locally well-covered, accessible, adequately and financially stable support environment can be established. This will, in particular, enable vulnerable groups of the population to participate in public education programmes so that they can improve their education and acquire appropriate skills and skills for better employment and thus improve the quality of life. In our view, it is also very important that the law defines counseling as a public service. Individuals, e.g. unemployed people often find it difficult to find appropriate educational options for themselves. This will make it available to consultants who will be able to help in particular find and choose the best employment opportunities. That's what I'd like to point out. Lifelong learning is also extremely important for pensioners, as it brings them many different benefits from learning such or different skills that help them overcome the obstacles they face, to maintaining and upgrading mental and physical abilities. All of this affects the quality of life during the third life period, which is extremely important for individuals and society. We therefore welcome all organisations that help to finance this and offer older people the opportunity to be educated in these lifelong learning programmes, in particular at universities for the third life period. To conclude, I announce once again our support for this law, because, as I have already said, it is really good and is worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u18	Good afternoon, good morning! Knowledge is certainly a great value, and we have high school students with us who may be aware of it, but perhaps not quite yet fully, how important it is that we have formal education. Although I am also fond of informal education because it allows for better quality of life, it is also right that we have these options. The new Slovenia supports this law because we believe it is good that we have stable funding for these public programmes, or that there is a public service and a network of operators that can prepare programmes in advance, provide adequate, proper staffing for the implementation of these programmes, and therefore stability of funding and predictability is extremely important that programmes can be implemented in a qualitative manner. However, what I am concerned about is our implementation, the organisation of such programmes, and the fact that I am increasingly hearing that we do not have properly educated staff for the needs of the labour market. Of course, it is important that we are educated informally for a better quality of life, that we also realize those needs, desire, interest in some new knowledge, and, of course, it is important for people who are not employed, who are not employed, that they also receive appropriate knowledge through such education, that they are then employed in the labour market, because we all need the means of life, so this is the first value, the first condition that we can then upgrade our knowledge with other knowledge. Because I believe that certain problems can also arise because of the fact that human universities are in major places, and the co-founders of these universities are different communities, and there is no need for equal hearing to finance the needs of these human universities. That is why I believe that it is also necessary to work in Slovenia to have one day regions that will ensure the fulfilment of these needs for certain regions, which also need certain knowledge, and, of course, that this funding will be stable. We are always hearing complaints from the municipalities that the state is assigning them new tasks, but it does not provide funds for this, so I also understand that some municipalities are resisting when they have to provide funds again and again for things for which the state does not provide them with enough money. So, stable funding is a condition for implementing quality programmes. I particularly advocate that people have equal opportunities in the field of education, and this also means greater social inclusion, especially when it comes to uncompleted primary education. We know that sometimes the reason for this is social weakness or the social situation in which someone lives. It is therefore very important that we ensure that these people receive this primary education and, of course, then further education for greater inclusion in society as well as for greater employability. New Slovenia will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u19	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats for her mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to start the position of the Group of Social Democrats with a quote: “Every adult in Slovenia will be given equal opportunities for quality education in all life periods.” This is a vision of the National Adult Education Programme, which highlights the importance of lifelong learning. Education does not end in youth, nor does it end in the development of individual potentials. However, the motivations of the participants in lifelong learning programmes are not limited to the accompanying requirements of economic development, they are increasingly moving to the forefront of training aimed at the professional and personal growth of an individual. The proposal for a law on adult education means that multi-annual efforts, in particular those implementing educational programmes, will be carried out. The most important solutions to the proposal are the establishment of a public network for adult education and the definition of public service. This creates a regulatory environment that ensures a more stable source of funding for operators and thus ensures better accessibility for participants. Participation in various forms of adult education has been declining in recent years. This is most likely to be attributed to the changed circumstances, in particular with regard to the smaller volume of project co-financing of public tenders from the national and European budgets. We hope that this bill, with the incentives it brings, will turn the trend upwards in the long term. In the Group of Social Democrats, we also pay particular attention to the provisions governing informal education. We believe that the content being implemented in this context contributes significantly to the empowerment of representatives of the various groups to stay and function in the community and helps to build a tolerant, solidarity-based intergenerational society. We consider the proposed regulation in this area to be modern and appropriate. However, we would point out that the possible exacerbation of the conditions to be met by educators in non-formal programmes could distort the offer of these programmes. The decision on the required conditions must take into account the purpose of non-formal education, with practical education essential for the transfer of knowledge between the educator and the participant. Respected and respected, with the adoption of the proposal for a law on adult education, one of the major shortcomings of system regulation is being addressed, namely the unstable financing of public education programmes and support advisory activities. In order to implement this law successfully, inter-sectoral cooperation and cooperation at national and local level in providing material conditions for the functioning of adult education organisations will need to be further strengthened. We will support both proposed amendments in the parliamentary group on the basis of this proposal for the Adult Education Act, and we will also support both proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, I would like to say that I thank you in advance for your support for the vote on the amendment, and I hope that you will not change your mind in the meantime, because I am probably not going to the vote because I am going on a business trip to Brussels. Today I'm taking over the subject. Micah's sick. I was born in a teaching home of a branch school, without hot water, without running water, 49 years ago, and until I fell into Parliament until politics and me, I spent my whole life in education. My father was a primary school teacher and my mother was a primary school cook. At the time of the adoption of this law, when I listened to you, I wrote here: Festival of Lents, Meme, Doctoral Studies, Antifake News, Hidden Knowledge, Human Working Universities, GZS Director-General Mrs Sonja Šmuc, Culture, Regions, before colleague Ludmila mentioned municipalities, schools, youth, excluded from secondary education. Since I've explained the amendment briefly, I'm going to go a little wider, and I won't be too long because I still have to get ready for the trip. Festina Lenta, a well-known Latin term, we are in a hurry, otherwise this law would probably have needed a decade ago, but it seems to me that the process of adopting this law is a fine school example of how the National Assembly should have worked, beyond one of our own, I hope, besmirching. As I said at the conclusion of my position, no one will think for us. We need to think for ourselves, and we need to act more thoughtfully. We live in time, some say, postage, fake news, but, you know, the best way to get back into some society of thinking truth is by educated individuals and individuals. We have a ministry that doesn't basically deal with a school that, in my personal opinion, has too long a title. The ministry, led by the resident colleague Anja Kopač Mrak, should be called the Ministry of Equal Opportunities, because the 'and equal opportunities' are somehow forgotten in many cases. And this is some law that provides the basis for equal opportunities. Of course, but the National Assembly, after three and a half years, I know very well, forget about it too often or we are running out of time to see what we are doing here, living or living in practice. This good law, which is likely to receive some minor amendments when it comes to practice, of course needs a regular one, sometimes in the academic sphere we call it, passive funding. Here was a talk about informal education, I would like to use the term from the theory of organizations – hidden knowledge. We highly underestimate the knowledge of some people who may not formally have some high levels of education, but have quite a few skills. But you know, we can go watch the cymper master breathe, when the flower kills, and we can go to the nurses we almost forced into some additional education, which is nothing wrong, but this additional education didn't bring them much higher wages, even though they had the knowledge. Now in 25 years, the system of human working universities has broken down in half, which of course would not be necessary if they were a little more mature. I agree with Ludmila that we should take this story regionally, but you know, we need to grab the regions in such an infrastructure way, not the way we're going to go steal the land, which political option will sit in which region. Yesterday, in Levica, we had a discussion with our colleague Dr. Pluto, a Belarusian cousin, about the regionalisation of Slovenia, ever again. Personally, I think that money for education should, of course, be centralized in the regions, but not that somehow we're halfway through it to the congregations. Anyone who knows little about local self-government and municipal budgets knows that this is the main weight, the main stone of municipal budgets. I personally feel that the congregations should be free of this, and that reduced scope of congregational assignments would also allow them more time to reflect on the direction in which individual congregations will develop. Why am I mentioning the Director General of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia? Because I read some dinners back yesterday and now it's this big hall, noises around the minimum wage, like it's gonna be the end of the world. Now I have to be honest with you, Mr Desus's professional associate has given me the Economic Mirror in his hands today – even in this way we are participating in the National Assembly, we are not as close as we might look on television – and we are, of course, at some peak of the conjuncture that will probably get out of hand for a while, and now these matters need to be thought and also set up to finance these matters dealt with by this law. However, Madam Director has been so honest that she has shown where our key problem is. Our key problem is very low, too low capital returns, and the only Cyprus is behind us, comparatively speaking, is its quote. But that's not why our workers, educated, could be more educated, cut up like sausage, it's the fault of some other team of people who might be formally really educated, have PhDs, up and down, and somehow because of their self-esteem they forgot to think. This thought is also necessary. And somehow for the end, the expelled minors. We don't have such a problem as more, I'll say, the semi-economic indicators of STEM, for example, in England, in France and elsewhere, but, you know, it happens a lot, because maybe we've forgotten a little bit, or maybe we're already in some 27 pubertys like me, that some hormones mix a little bit, and at some point they fall out of the school education system – now the president is turning a little bit with the eyes, but this is an important topic – we have to bring these people back and actually educate them. Not to show them with a finger or a moral theologian, a new one, but I don't think of Mira Cerar here, I mean a man from Maribor who spoke, and the journalists will rip out of context. We have to give this man another chance. If we gave a second, fifth, seventh option earlier to many politicians at 25 years of age who did not deserve it, we must give – and I do not mean those who are sitting here now; Ludmila looks at me, Ludmila has earned it, here, frankly little advertising I do, pre-election, even for New Slovenia – we must give this second opportunity to citizens and citizens. I have five kids. They're not all the same. Some are more for schools than others are for schools, but in a way it is actually what can happen to us, that will happen to us this problem, which many, sometimes over say, more developed societies, especially with teenagers, a little bit more than with teenage girls. Fortunately, we also have a lot less teenage unwanted pregnancies, etc., which is also due to some education that someone has received. Why am I telling you this? Let me just show you a little bit about what's going on here. I would be very happy to see that by the end of the term of office, the doctoral studies finally become insolvent again. The French never had it as payable as someone beautifully published in the article, for this is also an example of the same possibilities. I wanted to do another doctorate, and I'm not gonna do it for politics, so I can tell you the truth. It wasn't that easy for me to get $9,10 grand out of the family budget for that. Here, at least I paid my taxes and I paid my taxes. I paid, yes, Ludmila. I don't know, from my beloved White Krajina, Haloz, up and down. It seems to me that we should touch on this too, if not in this reference, and we could accept that, then let the profession think about how many people will be admitted to a doctoral study. There are, I'll say, some serious things that we need to seriously focus on that we need to deal with. The University for the Third Life Period, as Marinka has already indicated, do you know, is also part of the policy. We have the Ministry of Health, I know quite a few very active people who attend these universities for the third life period, and I can say that these people will live longer and will also have greater autonomy of life, etc. Here we really need to think about health policy – health policy begins with health. Of course, we're going to have to give twice as much money to our health care, which people kind of say, because everyone there steals, like, too much anyway. No, they don't, but we have to think about these things through these instruments and here – I'm going to end up here – but we should finally start to realize that essentially this sectoral division that we have on the side of the executive branch, some thing that came, I don't know, with Keynesianism, if I say so, from the 20th, 30th century, and now we live in a rather different and different, more perplex society. I'm afraid I have no illusion now that we're going to turn our executive power in the direction that the Swiss have done, that's almost the only thing I like about them, because they've done seven horizontal screws, because we're not so politically mature yet, I'm sorry. But we really need to be aware of that. This law, which we are now adopting – I thank you once again for probably supporting our amendment – is in fact a law that crosses several ministries, including the Ministry of Defence and Security. But you know, the most dangerous man is a stupid man. It's not a sin to be stupid, it's a sin to insist. And our job, of course, is to move this forward, which means, of course, that it will be harder to be a politician or a politician, because we will have smarter, more educated people, and we will be more difficult to sell pumpkins to, those to whom you sell pumpkins. That's why we're going to support this law in Levica. Thank you for supporting the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u23	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u24	Honorable President, Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! Thank you for your word. I agree with my buddy Runk. Adult education, which is the law that we are dealing with today, certainly has a long beard, including an explanation of why adult education is important, including broader concepts, insight into the adult education system itself, could in many ways agree with my colleague Trčko. And he's got a really long beard. It is already because the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education until 2016 provided in Article 10 that the provision of public service in the field of adult education should be governed by law, which of course has not happened since 1996. It's a really long time, so I'm also glad that we actually have this marriage today, we've been waiting for it for a long time, and I'm really glad that we've met it in some way. It is true, however, that the various needs of the future will then be demonstrated in a manner of various amendments, but this is probably already a matter of some new mandates. The debate on the working body was, in my view, very constructive, even very correct, irrespective of the political provenance of Members. From this debate, two amendments have been tabled for the plenary session today. The amendment to Article 3 setting out the rights of participants in adult education proposes the deletion of the last sentence, which sets out the right to health care from compulsory health insurance up to the end of the school year in which the participant or beneficiary reaches the age of 26. Under the applicable law, these rights may be exercised until the age of 27. In fact, I agree with my colleague Trčko, there is no reason at all, given the adoption of the last novel ZVis, that we would not support the amendment, especially because in this way we would also regulate the analogy of the eligibility and time limits of the use of individual rights to sectoral legislation where these rights are also originally regulated. In the SMC Group, we will support the amendment and thus align the rights of adult education participants educated through public programmes with the rights of other stakeholders attending the same programmes. Given that there is no great interest in the debate, I would also like to define a further amendment, i.e. to the amendment to Article 23, tabled by SMC Members and Desus, which is also the result of a discussion on the working body which touches on the knowledge and experience of educators in informal education programmes. Here I would like to point out that this is not a solution that has been offered on the committee itself, because, as it is said, even on the committee itself, it was very clear that such a solution offered would not be life. Of course, we cannot provide some higher education by someone who, for example, would teach kneeling, as was said on the committee itself. It is true, however, that the thought remains that the informal programmes offered must of course meet certain criteria, quality and, of course, operators must also have a coherent view of the specific knowledge they offer. We have therefore tabled, as it is said, an amendment to determine the terms and conditions of the invitation to tender with regard to the area covered by them or to determine the minimum knowledge or work experience they must have if they wish to be financed by the State. I think that it is a perfectly appropriate, reasonable amendment, that is to say, it responds to the concerns that have been raised at the working body's own meeting, and it also maintains some requirement for minimum knowledge, which, of course, is determined by the operator himself, which is then enforced or demonstrated in the invitation to tender. Both amendments, as we say, will be supported by the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u25	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Today we have interesting visits, first of all high school students, and now ladies in the best years, because we are just talking about education. I believe that they have come to educate themselves to learn about the work of the National Assembly here on the spot, which I very much welcome, so, as I have already said in my position, it is important that we live our whole lives in education and respond to the challenges of modern times. I will support this second amendment myself, and also the first one, especially because I often meet people who have very much knowledge and have problems when they are invited to school to present their profession, their knowledge, and they do not have a formal education. I always remember a gentleman who knits baskets at all fairs in Slovenia, how he does this skillfully well, but I can't imagine that someone would invite him to a basket knitting workshop, but he should go to a human university first and get a teacher's education. So work experience and such knowledge are extremely important, but it is not always possible to formalise them. But he who organises this education will certainly invite the participation of people with such knowledge. Of course, formal education is extremely important, but work experience, some skills that someone wants to pass on, are also extremely important. I myself am trying to get the Act on Handicrafts adopted in the National Assembly, because it is the handicrafts who have a lot of problems in this area of how to transfer their skills to younger generations. This is also an extremely important cultural heritage. Since this law is extremely demanding, in several areas, I also wanted to bring the law to an end in cooperation with various ministries. It deplores me that it has been decided that only one commitment will be made to do so in the next term. In doing so, we find that knowledge, such knowledge, which is of particular importance, which is part of our cultural heritage, sinks into oblivion or people die and have no heirs, cannot pass this knowledge on to another, younger one to lead it on. In short, knowledge, skills, all of this is extremely important, especially in the field of our heritage, our human tradition. The kind of knowledge that everyone doesn't have that's hard to get at school. That is why, of course, I want these people to be able to transfer this knowledge to younger generations as much as possible. And that is why I will also support this amendment because I believe that this will also enable people with such knowledge to engage or participate more easily in education.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u27	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I already said in the presentation that we definitely support the law. I am pleased that this adult education law has even occurred, i.e., at the beginning of the mandate, we have given an initiative, including in our parliamentary group, to essentially regulate this area of adult education. The unregulated area that has so far been or I hope that this law will settle matters has in fact caused problems for both directors or human universities and municipalities as well as probably for the country. I must say that this public network, which is, indeed, a vast, 34 human universities, may be able to form regionally, but with this coverage we come to the people. So, to everyone, it's easier to reach people in the countryside. If we had, say, regionally designed, like some ideas in the larger centers, it makes it harder for educators to reach people. But now that we've actually got this a little bit more scattered, it seems to me that, especially those vulnerable groups, really the oldest or unemployed, and so on, it's a little easier to get to those vulnerable groups. However, rationalisation is likely to be meaningful, even by the costs caused by such dispersion, but the founders of human universities are congregations. The congregation now takes over by law the preparation of an annual plan to express, whether or not, a public interest in financing. I still have my doubts. This law does not specify the specific obligation of the municipality to finance. This means that the congregation may decide, the municipal council shall vote for zero funding despite the public interest. The expressed public interest does not yet constitute funding. And that's what's happening. It happens because the state makes more and more commitments to the municipalities and less money, and the municipal councils or mayors will cut where they are most easily. The easiest in terms of or always cutting into education, culture, as I have said before. But what you can't see right away is in the long run. If you take financial resources in education, then that means that someone who is an educator, for example, offers fewer programs in adult education, and today we know that in adult education, when we look at that part that is not financed, that is, the primary school and counseling that is financed in different ways. One is project funding, i.e. the country's call through projects, the other is European funds, the third is the municipality's finances and so on. If the finances of the municipality are missing, the funding of the municipalities, which has an obligation at least according to the annual plan, then the directors or those in charge of adult education should also be taken on programmes. This means that whether the programs are more expensive or not, people would like to, God help, free programs. Many times older ones cannot afford to pay, nor can they afford to be unemployed, socially weak. Here, then, there are such things that, I have to do badly, or I do not agree to a full free course, at least some contribution must be, if it is 2, 3 euros or 5 euros, so much for some feeling that you have given something for this education. I remember when the director, when there were so many free educational programmes through general informal education, I know that there were many unemployed, older ones involved, these were quality educations, I must say that even by the Ministry, then the invitations were quality, quality prepared, and also, in the end, quality carried out both by the Ministry and the performers, at least for our people's university, I can say that. At that time, it showed what the real need was, but the programs were free of charge. And then the real needs were enormous and later the disappointment of the participants, once the programme was over, why things are no longer free. The financing of municipalities can be a major problem. At the time of the adoption of the law, the municipalities have already made various comments, including on the annual adult education plans, which it seems right that it is in law, so that, if the municipality has already shown public interest, it also makes an annual plan for adult education, to define exactly what it expects, including from this public institution that carries out this area. I am also pleased that this law has somehow defined what public service is, what will be financed, what will be the obligation of the State, including from this point of view, that the directors or those who run these public institutions will know exactly how to make a financial plan, a substantive plan, a human resources plan to know what is now in the public service, and what is what the market share is. Many of the public universities in addition to this public service are also engaged in market activity. This means that, of course, they are financed from the courses they place on the market, to be financed by other funds, which so far has been somewhat chaotic, so it has sometimes been questioned by the audits as to what is now a public service, what is being put into the public service and what is not, whether projects are a public service or not. Here was the greatest dilemma. I think that there may be a problem if municipalities do not finance adult education, but I think that all those working on adult education, directors or those who run these public institutions should not only keep asking how much the country will give and how much the congregation will give, but also make an effort to find projects in the European Community, i.e. through the European Commission. Then Leader programmes, therefore, are different programmes, which also allow for the inclusion of public institutions for adult education and for a very large amount of funding, i.e. for the implementation of different programmes. I don't agree with the amendment they tabled, I think so, Desus and SMC. I can't say I completely disagree, but I have a point. When an invitation to tender for non-formal programmes is already in the tender itself, there is a condition to which those applying for a specific project or programme must be satisfied with what level of education or what must be met by those teaching in informal programmes. In non-formal adult education programmes, as mentioned above, it is now constantly talking about kneeling or molding clay or, I will say, I mean, pure things that are really informal, but help to develop manual skills, different things or civic education of older people, whatever, really educate people who have these skills, but they may not have the appropriate pedagogical-andragog education, and yet they are good mentors. You don't have to be, I don't know, a senior celebrity teaching some stuff out there informally. And I have my doubts if things get even worse here, that we are looking at these things too administratively now because you are talking about the quality of education in informal programmes. See, any director who wants to educate people in a good way will not set up or invite a lecturer who has bad references or who turns out to be a bad lecturer. After all, since evaluation papers are made, participants are asked, and then such a lecturer is no longer invited. And I think that education here is of some great importance, like, I'll say, a paper degree or whatever doesn't make any sense. I also had a thought about the level of education of those who run organisational units. This means that the human university is part of another public institution. There is now a second level of education required here, which means that there must be a master, that there is not enough university education or higher education, which I do not think is right or I think it makes sense that the head of the organizational unit must have a second degree in the bologna in order to be a sufficient first degree, at least, lower of course, not at least. Important, more important to me is the leadership of this pedagogical-andragogical skills and the work experience in organising adult education, rather than being a manager because it is not because this public institution is essentially run by someone else or one who runs the main public institution. So, unfortunately, we didn't re- table the amendments. I think it was clear on the committee that this is not supported. I support this proposal of the Left, which is that this 26-year-old is deleted, this last sentence. Thank you again, but in fact, thanks to the ministry are needed here, usually saying that I am more critical of the ministries and that I am never satisfied with them, here I have to commend the Ministry of Education, because after many years and even after coordination and also with our Group of Members, this compromise law, which I hope will prove to be a good one in the future and it will not have to be amended much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u29	Since it's still an interest in the debate, please apply. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I'm a little sad right now because the computer chose me first as a member of Parliament at number 90, because I've already spoken before. Jelka goes out, but the principles are what [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, I don't know if you have to. Sometimes we have to go to the physiological needs, and then we're going to beat each other up. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's the one that went out. But I mean, you're pretty good at things, of course, based on your knowledge, because you were in a position of responsibility and you had to deal with it. Look, so I'm going to say, a system of this type of education, like, like a network of regional development agencies, which in many cases are often intended for themselves, and I don't want to be offensive to collect money, it is necessary to establish a network of people who are employed there not to get involved in projects. It seems to me that we must finally establish this, because it is only by doing so that these systems can function normally. You know, then if it's a little bit pervasive, then we have some hair, where we have to provide some jobs, and then there's jobs for two RRA campers, because it's not systemically structured, and then we have scarves, etc. I came to the bottom of this because these regions were a little misunderstood. That doesn't mean the system's disintegrating. This means that I come from the so-called school of new regionalism, Capello, Camagni, and so on, the authors who said, look, of course we love the local community, the congregation in which we live, but our lives take place within some regions, just like a stream or the river Ščavnica does not stop at the municipal border. At the same time, it is often, although Slovenia is not a large country, the country is too far away to say so, Ljubljana, but here is the national authority. If it were my birthplace, Zilla, you'd say, Zilla. This calls for regionalisation and, of course, for this reason, for pennies to be moved to the regional level. But we already have a problem with the municipalities. You know, local government, regional government, you can go on your own if you have money for that. However, if we keep money here in Ljubljana, centralistically, we are also aware that almost 70% of the legislation that we are adopting applies to municipalities, but we have a problem because you do not have such a brilliant mayor or mayor in Slovenia, who could solve this rebu completely. This is also a problem that we need to resolve. Let's be honest with each other, and we need to talk about the purposes of education. Sometimes there's some kind of education, frankly, that a man has a stroke. For example, I talk a lot to people who lose their jobs, and some of them, he can be a doctor of science or just a worker's production, and then go to some course where they teach him how to write requests and how to fix CVs, and then, I don't know, what kind of perfox that gets to advise a great penny to an assistant to make a questionnaire. My brother showed me one of these questions, and I was holding my head, there, I'd say in Maribor, suffocating people to determine what their competences are. Then I come to my daughter in the second, third grade, suffocating with some quasi entrepreneurship, bringing me a sheet of paper where she writes, explains it to the idiots, and I look at it so little, I think, you know, we have to ask ourselves a little bit. And it's not a problem, of course, people have to have a job, but we need to ask ourselves more about what they're doing and what we're doing. Here, I think, we need some serious evaluation in the field of education so we don't get educated because it's nice, but because we're going to get some badges. But I don't think now again, you know, it's usually said, but the needs of the market need the economy. You know, it's politics that directs what we're going to do here, that we're all going to live better, and that we're going to have more equal opportunities. It will not do so in the market, it will not do so in the Chamber of Economics, where they will always cry that taxes are needed down, that workers are too expensive, up and down, that is the task of responsible policy. This must finally begin to take up the next term, as this term is unlikely to occur. Now for the end of this EU story, and here I am, with my colleague Horvato, we are the most active on the EU Affairs Committee, and Jožko is very little because the president of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is there, and my experts are setting me up, and we are very critical of the European Union in Levica, of course, justifiably, but we are acting as if we are not a member of the EU, and the 8 campers we have in Brussels, so what? The bones are digging. They too need to ask themselves which of the best wages from the legislative branch of power we have there. And then some circulation of information and then, of course, a successful drawdown of European funds, but not in a way that we are always missing something. Good, because we also have problems, sometimes there is some sort of water supply that needs to be respected, but then it creates a doctorate in Prleka and Prekmurje, of course, often because of some personal interests of mayors or mayors. And a very important topic was touched by Jelko, a formal, informal skill. We also need to think about how some people who have a whole set of skills will get into the education system and we will not punish them because they are formally not, I don't know, masters of what or what else. At the same time, I don't agree with Jelko about this condition, but you know what the Bologna Master's degree is, after all, a Bologna Master's degree in the old system is not someone on Mars. I think the person, here, if I use English now, and Charge has to have this education. Perhaps this prevents the political obstacle of SDS from making it difficult for them to set a set of quotas. This is also legal, legitimate, happening, but the maturity of client policies is also, of course, that the capable people there also set up in certain positions properly educated. We don't seem to agree here. Thank you for your word. Aya, two more things, this committee is also doing well because we have a good committee president, our colleague Mirjam, who, I hope to say, along with colleague of the Covenant, as well as with Jozek in foreign policy cases, some presidents, committee presidents, who are the Committee's primary leaders, sometimes also in a way that puts a little client profiling into circulation. And I think we need to learn something from this, too. Oh, I didn't explain it before - culture. Now we have this story, the culture ministry, how much money is, how much money is not. But you know, the Americans are squeezing us in Afghanistan with some old trucks that don't fit the standard into our army, and we have no use for them, and then we're giving a couple hundred grand to bring these old trucks to Slovenia, so that any retired American general will have a private company that will support these trucks. When we talk about security policy, we also need to talk about culture. I like jazz, now there's some fake news, whether Janša listened to jazz or not. How did the Americans soften the former regimes of Eastern Europe? That they financed jazz. One of Coltran's better shots in 1972, if I'm not mistaken, from Belgrade. But you know, if we want to talk about defence strategies, we need to talk about culture. In the medium term, in the long term, we will have a better security situation if we finance culture instead of cutting wire through SMC postal collectors or someone else and instead, I don't know, ferrets in the Baltic States with our troops in the NATO contingent. But you know, these are also matters that violate such a law, and we may not be aware of them, and responsible policies should be aware of them. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u31	Mrs. Vesna Vervega has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again, all of you! I am very pleased that today we are considering this law here in the National Assembly. In fact, after 1996, I would say that the time and, in fact, also in view of the needs of society after lifelong learning, to adopt this law or that these contents, which are very important or exposed in marriage, are also being dealt with in this way. Of course, it is a matter of thanks to the Ministry, the State Secretary, who managed to get all these different stakeholders somehow onto such a denominator so that we can talk about this law today. But I will only respond to two things in my debate. A colleague of Jelka Godec, as I have already said on the working committee, that I appreciate her opinion on these matters, because she has worked on this for many years and probably those who work know what a sector actually needs to do well. This article 23 and the amendment that we propose, or which we have added to the discussion on the working body, is therefore an added paragraph of Article 23, which speaks about this, I will read it over and over again: "In determining the conditions to be met by the provider of the non-formal adult education programme for funding on the basis of a public invitation or call, the minimum knowledge or experience of operators in the field of adult education shall also be determined." I told myself on my mother's working body that I agree that informal programmes do not need to raise the need for education of educators. However, in this case it is only those programmes which will be financed through public procurement. And that. The Ministry can set minimum conditions here, so there is no need for them. Informal education programmes will continue to be implemented in accordance with those rules as set out in Article 23. In this case, it is not specifically raising some of the needs or raising the education that educators are supposed to have, but only those programmes that will be financed from public funds. And another response to the debate of my colleague Godec. In fact, we didn't accept the SDS amendment on our home work body. The law provides that the providers of adult education programmes are public institutions and organisational units within public institutions. Their proposal was that the head of the organisational unit should be educated at least 1st degree and that the bill provided that he should be II. Levels. Why do we think it is inappropriate to lower the level of education for the head of organizational units? Because they perform similar or almost the same work as the Director of the Public Institute. It is also the governing body, which would then be in charge of those teaching workers, the Andragog workers with an education of II. Levels. We certainly believe that this amendment would reduce the educational level required for the implementation of the management body or the work carried out by a management body. So again. Both of the amendments proposed will be supported in our parliamentary group and, of course, the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u33	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected secretary of state with a co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, by the New Slovenia Group we support this law. We also support the amendment on which the debate is open. But I was particularly encouraged by Dr. Franz Ducky. It is true that we are active on the Committee on European Union Affairs as far as possible. Last but not least, I would like to remind you here of the July 2015 Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which states, inter alia, that the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union is our fundamental political and value framework. Valuable, so we're talking about values. Here, of course, in the context of education, this declaration, what I said in the Declaration on Foreign Policy, can be used in all our areas, in fact, when we are talking about values. When we talk about education, I must remind myself here of Article 14 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, where it says somehow: "Everyone has the right to education and access to vocational and further training." Everyone. It's about justice. And now, speaking of accessibility, although I must first express my respect and gratitude to the Ministry, which has drawn up a good law. Moreover, this law is accompanied by very relevant data, where Slovenia is today in this area. But speaking of accessibility now, I must actually advocate that all regions, unfortunately for now, have only statistics, to ensure their citizens the same accessibility as, say, the Central Slovenian region. There's only one college program in Pomure. Just the one who got the concession. It is also performed within the framework of Alma Mater Europae. But, interestingly, for several years, Members from Pomurje have been struggling that this programme would also be awarded a concession so that people, reading students and parents, from the poorest region, would not pay high school fees, from 3 to 4 000 euros. How much is a minimum wage? Here is my question, and many times I say that there is a region, not just Pomurje, very, very far from the decision-making centre, i.e. from Ljubljana or state institutions. We have to change that. Many, however, have a problem that probably people say that those in this programme implemented by Alma Mater Europae are not the right ones. But be enough for today on this issue so that I do not have too much local patriotic debate. I agree that a long time ago, a belief that was once even an axiom that youth is that period of human life that is designed for education. It's been a long time. And I agree with those who say that the children who first crossed the elementary school threshold in early September will be performing jobs that are not yet available today. Society develops so quickly, technology develops so quickly and therefore lifelong education, training and so on. But this must be accessible to all in accordance with our Constitution and also in accordance with the Charter of the European Union. This also points to the problem we have here, because Slovenia is too centralised and because we do not yet have regions. And when we talk about technological progress – here too, Slovenia will have to wake up. We are at the bottom of the European Union after investing public funds, i.e. funds from the budget, research, development and innovation and so on. For 2016, if we scrapped all the items from which the money for R & D went, this money was 145 million. We're at the bottom, I said. If we invested as much as Sweden and converted according to the number of people in Slovenia, we should invest about 830 million not 145. That's 5.7 times more, so 570% more should be invested. And if we don't wake up here, then we're actually going to be one country where multinationals come, and we're going to sell the work of our hands and not our heads. Because our heads, Slovenian heads, full knowledge and experience will continue to go out. And it hurts me the most, it breaks my heart when I listen and count from 1 to 8 thousand in the last year of educated people who went out. This is the most dramatic exodus for this country. We have to stop this.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u35	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the SMC and Desus parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Not at all. The debate obviously covered everything, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed bill on the cobillary lip in the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u36	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and all other Members present! Thank you so much for saying that. Because of the outstanding characteristics important to Slovenia and the wider European space, the Kobiliar Lipica is a cultural monument of national importance. The Kobilirana Lipica Act was also declared a cultural monument of national importance in 1996. From 1996 until now, however, the existing law has been subject to a number of amendments and additions, making it obsolete and imprecise. Certain strategic measures must also be implemented to ensure conditions that will allow longer-term development. To this end, a proposal for a new law on Kobilirana Lipica was also drafted. The law is intended to contribute, on the one hand, to raising the importance of Lipica horses and Kobilarna Lipica as a monument of national importance and, on the other hand, to make use of the economic potential that Kobilina Lipica has as its destination. This was followed by the basic guidelines that we followed in the preparation of the law. The primary guides were adequate protection of the Kobilar and Lipican horse sites and a greater emphasis on the essence of Kobilarna, which is in Lipican. The important guides were, of course, the recognition of Kobilar Lipica itself as a tourist destination, the improvement of business conditions and the possibility of further development and good management in Lipica, the development of Lipica as a destination for five-star experiences and the preservation of real estate and cultural heritage owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The law lays down the territory of Kobilarna, its status, the basic characteristics of the breeding of lipican horses and the way in which the entire area is managed. In accordance with the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the Kobilarna Monument Area and certain individual sites are declared as monuments of national importance, including the establishment of protective regimes. The law will also protect the traditional breed and rear the Lipiscans as an intangible heritage of national importance, with a view to facilitating the placement of the Lipiscan on the Unesco List of Sights. The breeding and management of Lipican horses shall be carried out in accordance with the regulations and guidelines provided, of course, by the relevant Ministry, the Government and the profession. These areas were prepared in close cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Agriculture. The law also introduces a new organisation of the implementation of activities in the co-balancing area, underlining that the change of organisation does not constitute the privatisation of Kobilar Lipica, but is intended to improve the conditions for the operation and development of the entire area. It is envisaged that the public institution will be transformed into holding Kobilna Lipica d.o.o., which will be 100 % of the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, which must not share or transfer its share to another person. The basic capital of the holding company is EUR 10 million. It will be intended to start up an undertaking, to invest urgently and to provide for the creation of capital for subsidiaries. The capital investment in the holding company is managed by the Government. The reasons are in the specificity of the operation of the holding company, the operation of the site, the State importance, of course the fact that it will hold 100 % ownership and control of the subsidiary that will carry out the public service. Holding has a 6-member supervisory board, of which 4 is appointed by the Government, 3 by the Minister responsible for tourism and one by the Minister for Agriculture, 2 by the employee representatives. At this point, I would like to clarify that, with the proposed amendment to Article 38, we are also taking into account and ensuring a clear role for the local community in the way that one of the members proposes the Municipality of Sežan and aligns it with the Minister responsible for tourism. In this way, the interests of the local community will also be adequately represented. For the purpose of carrying out the public service, holding company shall establish a subsidiary of Kobilna Lipica d.o.o., which must remain in 100% of the ownership of the holding company. Kobilirna Lipica is directly awarded the concession for the performance of the public service by this law. The holding shall prepare, in cooperation with a cobalt management plan for the entire area for a period of 5 years. The plan is accepted by the government. For reasons of transparency, the holding company may also establish a subsidiary to carry out a gainful activity in which it must maintain a majority share. The proposed new organisation will make it easier to operate both in the work of the public service, a more flexible mode of employment and, of course, a reward for the performance of employees, as well as in the work of carrying out profitable activities. The change in the organisation of management in the Kobilarna Lipica area does not mean the privatisation of Kobilirna Lipica, but is intended to improve operating conditions. Of course, adequate supervision of the public service will also be provided by the ministries, MGRT, agriculture and the Ministry of Culture and the Court of Auditors. We therefore believe that the bill will be able to follow the long-term vision of the preservation of Kobilarna Lipica as a single destination for five-star experiences, with the head of her Lipica horse and its associated cultural heritage. I therefore propose that you support the amendment of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this, we propose that, if there are fewer than one-tenth of the amendments adopted, the third is to be considered at the same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u37	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mrs Andrei Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u38	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 31st meeting, 12. 1. 2018, discussed the above-mentioned proposal for a law. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. The amendments to the bill were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD. The members and members of the Committee were also accompanied by proposals for amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD committees which were adopted by the Committee and are reflected in the report of the Committee. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that many comments were taken into account by the amendments of the coalition groups. It highlighted the comments made by the service on paragraph 3 40. Articles relating to the provision of the protection of creditors. It also warned about the establishment of Turizem Lipica, namely that, in accordance with the Company Act, the company must clearly distinguish itself from the company of all other companies. The representative of the service explained that no amendments had been tabled with regard to those comments and the Ministry provided its explanations. At the meeting, the representative of the Council of State explained that the Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supported the proposal of the law. Overall, support was expressed for the proposed solutions. The view was expressed that, in the short term, leadership had managed to take some important steps towards stabilising operations and improving the visibility of Kobilarna Lipica. The proposed solutions and changes to organisation will in the future allow for greater flexibility and cost-effectiveness of the operation of Kobilarna Lipica and improve the marketing of its services. The debaters considered that the amendment of the legislation was only a first step and that appropriate operational measures for the future development of Kobilarna Lipica would need to be implemented, with particular attention being paid to the rearing of Lipicanca. Criticism was expressed as to the lack of local community participation in the management of which the State Secretary provided an explanation of the composition of the Supervisory Board Holding Kobilarna Lipica. The debate also raised the issue of the dispute between the employees of Kobilirna Lipica, on which the State Secretary provided an explanation of the judgment and the payment of compensation. Concern was also expressed regarding the possible privatisation of Kobilarna Lipica, in which the Secretary of State explained that Holding Kobilarne Lipica would own 100 % of the country without the possibility of alienation and burden, also a subsidiary of Kobilarna Lipica, which Holding Kobilarna Lipica could establish. Holding Kobilarna Lipica may also set up a new company in which the majority owner of the country remains and must not be alienated for the purposes of carrying out the tasks of gainful activity. Following the discussion, the Committee received proposals for amendments, as shown in the report itself. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u39	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u40	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a proposal for the organisation of Kobilarna Lipica. Why does it matter? It is a brand, the recognition of Slovenia and the promotion of Slovenia in the world. What are the problems we have to solve? This is inter-departmental cooperation – Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Agriculture, and right here is a weak point. The weak point of this government is the non-cooperation of ministries and therefore many problems, we see in the past days, for example, what is happening with China. Another problem is that Lipica, also admitted by the Government, was better managed in the previous system and that in the four years that we talked about this problem, we did not come up with the right solution. Of course, since Slovenia's independence many changes have occurred, especially tourism is the activity that means the future of Slovenia, the future of strategic routes, the strategic position and tourism linked to all other activities. Lipica has advantages: golf, near the sea and everything else. This has to be used. Where are the solutions? In single management and in the way that the offices are horse-riding and to arrange relations both with Austria, Croatia, where they have similar problems. What about the proposal? Some feel that the proposal is good from this point of view, that it cannot be worse. That's not an answer. We can't have a system of experiments and confusion and learn from it. A strategic approach is needed. The title holding has a negative connotation. The experience of this government in the management of state assets – SDH, DUTB and other holding companies. What's the frame-up? What is the control of financial flows? And here we have bad experiences. What's going to happen to the subsidiaries? It is unclear what will happen to dependent companies as well. Who will be the people who will manage? What's the take? Is it just about recruiting people before the end of the term? I do not think the proposal has been allocated to this extent to be suitable for decision-making. Who will lead certain people? What people are they going to be called? What will be their name, who will be named, and how will the flow of money be controlled? We see that ten million should be invested, but we do not know exactly what this will be invested in. In view of the poor experience of managing state property, I believe that the proposal is premature and incomplete, and that is why we will not support it in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u41	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the team! Unlike my predecessor, we have a different opinion. We believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Kobalna Lipica is a logical continuation in 2016 of the adopted law. In accordance with the vision of MRGT and management, the government, and also in the final phase of SMC, has somehow received the basis for Lipica to be led and looked to the future. After years of exchange, this new leadership, which goes into many people's noses, achieved excellent results. There is room for improvement, and if there is no unnecessary circumcision in this and that, this will continue. I'm just going to let you know some of the following information. In 2017, 108 thousand tourists visited Lipico, and up to now previous management has barely reached 70,000. This is 22% more than years ago. Not to say that it has raised 17% of income and there are some other data that could be adequate. Since its establishment, the Kobilier Lipica has been active in various forms of public ownership, but always as a single rounded whole. It intertwines activities with horse riding, cavalry and related forms of tourism. The main purpose and mission of the presence of tourism activities in Lipica is to place Lipica horses, protected cultural heritage and the natural environment at the forefront. I repeat, to the fore. And not as evil-minded as they speak. In the SMC Group, we believe that with proper economic governance and development we can maintain, protect both the cultural heritage and the Lipican and at the same time develop economic activities that will first and foremost valorize the cultural and natural heritage of Lipica. The vision is clear. We want to preserve, develop as one of the most important identity symbols and elements of cultural heritage. We want this heritage designed for the benefit of present and future generations, with careful management and, I stress, marketing and sharing the experiences and experiences of Lipica with visitors and tourists from around the world. The Government has therefore taken a new step following the amendment of the Lipica Act in 2016 and has set out the text of a bill establishing Holding Kobilarna Lipica with two subsidiaries. Kobilna Lipica would carry out only public service and Turizem Lipica would carry out acquisition activities. This avoids all the mysteries that were previously in the public office. Let me mention the main points of the law. Additional provisions relating to breeding and breeding of horses, two chapters, the more exposed protection of the acquisition of real estate and intellectual property rights, a more detailed indication of all profitable activities, a change in the legal organisation of the form of management to a more economical, market-oriented form, and thus to a more modern one if you wish. Nevertheless, management also has six members of the Supervisory Board. Here was the greatest fear that the local community and the workers in Lipica were pushed away. Once again, of the six members there are two representatives of employees, one of the four members is one of the Ministry of Agriculture and one of the three members proposes Municipality of Sežana. So there's no such thing as fear. We want this pearl to become the main entry point of Crassus and Slovenia, and therefore in the SMC Group we will support the bill because this law is going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u43	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A nice welcome to the Ministry! We have before us the law on Kobilana Lipica in the third reading. I think that this is some logical continuation of the previous law, which has transferred powers from several ministries to the Ministry of the Economy. At least for me, it's a logical continuation. We are all probably aware that the law itself does not essentially solve all of the outstanding matters that we have in Kobilna Lipica or that will need to be resolved further. In some ways, the law provides a pretty good basis for all the measures that will have to be followed in the area of cobalarium itself, in relation to all areas protected by specific laws. We are talking mainly about the protected herd of horses in Lipica, we are talking about certain cultural and historical monuments, but on the other hand we also have the part that must also bring added value in Lipica, and the law makes this matter possible. Now surely the law as such cannot ensure that this will actually happen in Lipica. I think that, at this point, it is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry, which will also clearly understand what this law wants to do and what is the desire of the whole in this space, how Lipica must continue to be included in the tourist offer and, on the other hand, also in the security of those values that are most important in Lipica when we talk about Lipica as a protected facility and other matters. If that is not the case, we will probably be in a few years, probably in a different composition, again before the dilemma, whether things need to be regulated on a legal basis. However, as I said, this is not a good journey, because we can constantly change the laws and we believe it, or at least some believe that things are being resolved, but we are not solving matters, so still a key issue: the right people in the right places and also respect for the commitments that will be written in the law and also in all the sub-laws that are likely to be adopted under this law. Indeed, it is a great responsibility for the Ministry of the Economy's proposal to settle matters in Lipica. Even if we look at things at this point where certain anomalies are happening, and here the ministry is, of course, responsible to also re-establish things in a suitable way and to restore the satisfaction of all the people who are working in Lipica itself, that, of course, their belongings and their knowledge from the past are also exploited, and that, at least to this extent, things are being tried to be used to the greatest extent possible and to take advantage of the potential that is in this area. If he goes, the next steps in this law and in the operationalisation itself in this direction, I do not think that there will be any more resistance by the local communities, because the law still has extensions that can give Lipica a good start and also make it possible to make a substantial development than it has in the past, and thus a greater added value in tourism for the whole area of Southern Primorska, this narrow area, and not least the wider Slovenia. In this case, we will not oppose the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u45	The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u46	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! We have met several times in this mandate to try to save Lipica. The reasons for the long-term failure of business and from year to year the smaller visit to Lipice is very large. In this case, too, we can look for them in poor relations both in leadership positions and between employees, and above all require a critical view of the responsibility of the State as the owner who has not found the right way for many years to preserve this tourist pearl and, above all, the preservation of cultural and natural heritage in the upbringing and education of the Lipicans. Two years ago, a step has been taken forward, and today we are ahead of a new proposal for a law on Kobilana Lipica, which raises quite a few concerns, so the majority in our parliamentary group will not support the law. Is the solution, which is opposed to a strong civil initiative, which also has all the support of local communities, for further development and, above all, the existence of lipican as a species that many still envy us today, the real one this time? The path of exclusion of local communities certainly does not give a good feeling, but also raises the question of the meaning of holding in a complex with a relatively small number of employees. Transparent business with a consistent separation of public and private resources is also able to be provided without it. At least among the local population, there is a fear of overprivatization, the victim of which would ultimately be a Lipican. The breeding of the horse itself does not guarantee the preservation of this protected species. It is accompanied by a riding school which has a 100-year tradition in Lipica and is closely connected to the Vienna riding school as one of the leaders. The task of the State is to protect this cultural and natural heritage appropriately. The latter is undoubtedly a task of the state and not a matter of more or less successful hotel manager within the complex. It is therefore justified to fear that in all of this we forget the fact that Kobilna Lipica is even recognizable in the world and in international waters. A Lipiscan without an appropriate and recognised riding school, which has specific features, is only a tool for commercial purposes without real value. Here there is the concern of a civil initiative that warns against these layers and that does not see in the law that is before us enough to ensure that things do not escape. For the river is known, that it is too late to ring the hail. In order to be a comprehensive unit in which public and profitable activities must be closely involved, we agreed on the latest 2016 amendment. Newly, all powers from agriculture have been transferred to the economic sector as the sole responsible manager of Kobilarna Lipica. The role of one master is ungrateful after years of difficulty, but crucial in determining a vision, so today we have a new bill on the table, which the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology believes will be the right and successful solution for Kobilna Lipica's new legal organisational form of society in the form of holding company. In the Desus Group, we believe in the good purpose of MGRT, but we would expect more attention in the law itself to be given to basic activities, which for us are still the rearing, education and protection of the Lipican, and in the development of tourism activities, as well as to the involvement of the local community, which seems to be on the verge of happening. For success, it is not the organizational form itself, but a well-thought-out vision, a consistent respect for cultural protection restrictions, care for the rearing and training of Lipisans, professional cadre and successful marketing. As the proposed law has been put forward in our view, it does not provide this to a sufficient extent; therefore, on our part, our parliamentary group does not benefit from the majority support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u47	Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go. I'm sorry, Mrs. Maria Bachič, I skipped the magic. Matthew Tonin. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor, and once again I apologize to everyone, I skipped you, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u48	No problem. Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Lipica is certainly a special pearl for Slovenia, consisting of at least two parts, two elements – one is a cultural heritage and the other is a great potential for the development of tourism. Lipiscan is a breed that has almost half a thousand years of deep roots. It is quite clear that this is a pearl of Slovenian cultural heritage, which we must also preserve for our craftsmen. Our first task, then, is to preserve this pearl and transfer it to our children and also our grandchildren. In Novi Slovenija we therefore support the declaration of traditional breeding and breeding of Lipisans as an intangible heritage of national importance. We also support the declaration of sites in the monumental area as cultural monuments of national importance. However, we hope that the maintenance and regular maintenance of these monuments will also be ensured in practice and not just on paper. However, it is important that we also know such cultural heritage to present to the general public, people, tourists from far and wide, i.e. those who come from Slovenia, as well as those who come from abroad. Kobilirno Lipica in Novi Slovenija is seen as one of the key tourist attractions in Slovenia. The substantial amendment to the bill refers to the real legal organisation of the Kobilarna Lipica area. The current public institution is being transformed into Holding Kobilirna Lipica. A while ago, the New Slovenia Group visited Kobilana Lipica on its field visit and took note of their problems and one of the things presented there is the unsynchronized or otherwise uncoordinated operation of the cobilarium itself, i.e. the work of cultural heritage and the work of tourism, tourism development, accommodation, hospitality and similar things. Regrettably, many times in the past, these two parts worked side by side, even more so, they were flirting with each other. It is clear, however, that these two parts, i.e. cultural heritage and tourism, are closely intertwined and that one cannot without the other. In the long run, even without some income from tourism and a visit to the koballina can not survive, while tourism alone without the koballarna is nothing. So, however we turn things around, we come to a simple conclusion that we need to find some kind of organisation that will lead to these two parts, tourist and cultural, working together. In the past there have been various complications, and the Court of Auditors has then pointed out that money may be used unintentionally from cultural work. That is why, however we have laid things together and in whatever way we have thought, we have in some way come to the same conclusion that perhaps the best way to organize is what is proposed in the law. This is some kind of holding company, according to the local supervisor, who will make sure that both works, cultural and tourist, will be coordinated among themselves. Of course, we have also received a number of comments from our local representatives, particularly on the representation of local communities in governance bodies. We have also heard other arguments that these things are properly regulated in law. After yesterday's in-depth debate in the parliamentary group, we have come to the conclusion that this law in the management of Lipica, in keeping Lipica as the basic Slovenian pearl, still represents a step forward. That is why we will not oppose such a law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u49	Ms Marija Bachič will read the text by the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Kobilirna Lipica represents one of the highlights of Slovenian natural and cultural heritage and means the complete. Its importance and overall contribution depend on all components and their creative cooperation, area, buildings, nature and landscape, horses, people and ways and cultural activities. The coordinated operation of all is necessary for Lipica to be re-classified on the world map of the most prestigious cobillary. Only then will it be able to justify the reputation and potential of the Slovenian tourist pearl. For many years, Lipica has been plagued by unregulated relations and undefined powers and, above all, lacks the means to develop a herd of lipicans, equestrian activities and natural and cultural heritage, i.e. basics, without which there is no and cannot be no tourist activity and its other fruits, which the public expects from the institution with such potential. Therefore, the insurance of the fundamental elements of inheritance, the definition of key activities and the distinction between public and private are the basic issues that the law must resolve. It is only on these grounds that a good arrangement can be designed for the future, so the law clearly defines the elements of the natural and cultural heritage, where in addition to the protected area there are individual buildings and landscapes and, of course, also a herd of Lipican horses and their style of classical training. The proposal for a law drawn up at the Ministry of Economy thus provides for the transformation of the current public institution into a holding company, within which two companies will operate. Kobilirna Lipica, d.o.o., will remain 100 % of state property, with the prohibition of alienation. Its task will be to take full care of all those activities and property that constitute public society, to protect public interest and to take care of all those elements of heritage that make Lipica special, for natural and cultural landscapes, for buildings, for breeding and training of Lipican horses and for the comprehensive development of the horse profession. The basic purpose of the law is therefore to clearly define all those activities and elements of Lipica which are public or public interest and to ensure that they continue to exist and develop. The task of this company is to carry out a public service and to care for public property and public interest. To this end, the law also provides a capital of EUR 10 million. In order to carry out profitable activities, in particular those in the field of tourism and hospitality, the law provides for the possibility of setting up a separate company in a holding company where private partners can also participate. The activities of a gainful nature will be so clearly separated from the public service, which, to a good extent, also prevents the mixing of public and private resources, which has also been a bad practice in Lipica, which we hope will become a matter of the past. Despite the fact that private partners will be able to enter this company, the law provides that Holding and the indirect State must maintain at least 50% of the share in this company. In this way, Lipice’s property and tourist activity, directly based on the good functioning of the work in the public interest, are adequately protected against privatisation. A clear definition of tasks, assets and relationships and the transformation of a public institution into a public undertaking will make it possible to ensure a better functioning of the entire Lipice system and to ensure comparable performance and management in accordance with the standards applicable to undertakings. Of course, we are increasingly interested in whether the proposed solutions will work. In other words, the adoption of this Law ensures that things turn in the right direction in Leipzig as well. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that without a good legal basis and, above all, taking responsibility on the part of the owner, that is, the country, there can be no positive movement. The law we support by the Social Democrats is thus a prerequisite for the expected positive consequences. But I cannot go beyond the fact that every marriage is only through work, effort and the relationship of real concrete people. In a year or two, when we assess the success of the new regime in Lipica, most will not be interested in specific legal articles, but in the question of whether things work properly in Lipica. That is why we consider it necessary to draw attention to an area that is not regulated and cannot be regulated by the proposal itself, but is a decisive point for success and failure. The successful follow-up work of Kobilar Lipica will ultimately, irrespective of the legal solutions adopted, be ultimately dependent on people who are or will continue to be directly and regularly involved in its daily work. On several occasions we and the Slovenian public have been informed of poor relations within the collective. Any project cannot be successful unless there is at least basic respect among the people who are part of it. And success in the rehabilitation of Lipice cannot be expected unless it is based on respect for the people and employees who, through their efforts and knowledge, ensure the existence and development of Lipica. We therefore appeal to all involved to invest more energy and effort in mutual understanding and relations, that this is the best investment. We will support this Act in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. For the first time, the Kobalina Lipica Act was passed in 1996 for registration on Unesc's list and with the aim of protecting the horse of Lipica. But all the ruling political parties had their capital and human resources interests, and so the situation in Lipica today is as it is. Unfortunately, it's sadder. If people were not to dance with political interests after the dance, they would not be talking about Lipica for the fourth time in this three-year term. Lipico was first pushed into the Slovenian People's Party when they introduced Casino, then LDS with the closure of the protected area, then SDS when they invented the golf course, and now at the last party SMC. Lipica and Lipicance have been destroyed all the time by those who have the power, instead of using the power that voters have given them to the benefit of man, animals and wealth that we have, most ruling elites have used only to destroy wherever possible. And unfortunately this time, the coalition, especially the ruling SMC party, is no different. Ethics and morality are getting excited. However, if Minister Židan had done his job well, Lipica would not have been transferred to the MGRT in this mandate. Unfortunately, me and the Left, this time too, we strongly oppose the new law. I could list all the historical facts that talk about why we should save Lipica, Lipica, employees and finally Lipica to be proud, but I would rather give some facts about what we opposed in 2016 and why we strongly oppose the law even in 2018. In 2016, when the new Law on Kobilana Lipica was adopted in the National Assembly, in order to enable Lipica to become the Ministry of Economy, which gave Lipica the opportunity to carry out market activities, we did not support the reception of the novel in Levica. At that time, we concluded our position with the words: “We expect to discuss Lipica again at the end of the year if Lipica is even ours.” It could be said that we made a mistake for some year, but we did not, since it was initially said that a new law in public treatment would be at the end of 2016, when Lipica's tourism went bankrupt, as it was supposed to combine horsemen, cavalry, hospitality and tourism with the law under one roof. At the beginning of 2017, the then law, which was different from today's, was also presented by local communities, was then agreed and confirmed by law, but the law was amended and not aligned with the local community and those who strive to make Lipica with a noble horse of Lipica again become our parade horse. In explanation for the adoption of the law, it is clear that since January 2017 the Government has not worked too hard with the law itself and with solutions, but only by how to transform the public institution and how to form a new society, that is, a springboard for desertification and privatisation. In Levica, we wonder why, at this time, they did not give at least a little time to the local community and unionists to come together to find the solutions needed and finally to get Lipica back on her feet. Since we have been trying to save Lipica since the beginning of our mandate in Levica, we hope that this time the law will finally solve the problems and we will be able to support it with the greatest joy and take a new, better step for the future of Lipica, Lipica, employees and all Lipica lovers, but unfortunately that is not the case. Apparently, some are still working hard to destroy Lipica. To establish a holding company with two subsidiaries, in which 10 million of the capital, which the Minister himself says will invest in infrastructure in the majority, to rebuild a four-star hotel, and then after the renovation, will probably go into private hands, we simply do not believe that this will not happen, because there are several levers in the law that indicate that the destruction of Lipice will end with the surrender and sale of our pride. The Civil Initiative for Lipico points out that the current situation is unsustainable, that horses are neglected, that many are employed on forced leave, that the Minister, by adopting the law in 2016, has laid the groundwork that he can now continue to recruit his people, perhaps some even sitting here in the Chamber. Dear Government and, above all, the ruling SMC party, you continue the bad practice of the previous governments, and after the end of your term, when you are no longer so numerous, you will not be proud. Now is the time to think about how you will vote, for then it will be too late. We have prepared anti-privatisation amendments in Levika, and only if you support them and thus show that you have a good purpose will we not oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u53	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled by 23. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am thus putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SMC and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Maybe, I'm sorry, I'll start to respond a little bit to all the allegations that have been. Dear Violet, I don't "giggle" my job in Lipica, so I know you meant me directly. [[…]] But I'm working on making Lipica successful and good. Don't worry about it. Now, if we're trying to privatize, I don't know what you're working for, because you didn't support the previous law, and you obviously won't. On all these privatisations and on this trall and hopsas and this civil initiative and how everything is unsustainable, it is sometimes possible to listen well to this management, which is now a year and a half and a year and 8 months in operation. The one who wanted to, wanted to, or had time to look at the data and statistics that this management has done, might have thought a little bit about and would have weighed his words a little. If by 2015 Maximum, the largest range, I speak from the beginning of Slovenia, from 25, 26 years old, to a maximum of 70,000, there were 108 thousand visitors in the year and a half. If this number, this 30,000, does not mean anything, then probably these people, who speak so easily, do not realize how much effort in marketing and operation has been made. The first thing that was my wish was that leadership, what is now, would do three things. The first is to stop this negative connotation and talk negative about Lipica. Second, to stabilize business, which it is. And the third is to start advertising marketing more aggressively, which until then was not done at all, because it was left to itself because people were used in Lipica to getting this money from the Ministry of Agriculture, these 2 million 800, and then it was a hit of joy, easy. And when the season ended, that was in November, until the big night was the winter sleep of coaches, riders and, of course, horses. And now this crazy talk of this civil initiative about how they care about horses, how it is all these members of this initiative Pa another call, 13 thousand 500 is citizens of the Municipality of Séžan, representatives of the civil initiative, if I count them well, somewhere 20. [[…]] [[…]] So this is this big sphere, and these people were all working in Lipica, they all had a chance to prove themselves, and now this old thinking, that socialist thinking that was, was suddenly usurped in the sense that more work was needed, more effort was made, and more money was given for it. That's wrong too, okay. That the horses are neglected, now that someone from this civil initiative is talking about how the horse died and I don't know what. One horse and this one from Queen Elizabeth was 25 years old, which means at the human, human age of about 80 years, and was struck by a heart attack. Mah, come on. Now what? And one young horse, who somehow starts talking about such things and again honking negative and spreading because some of this civil initiative also in the forums, I'll say, professional forums, horse forums are talking ugly about Lipica and they don't realize they're babbling and spitting in their own bowl. [[…]] And they want you well? Does this local community want to do well? Please, come on! I was a little surprised by the coalition colleagues who somehow turned to another side and saw everything wrong with it. Well, it's a democracy, and everyone can have an opinion, but it's interesting that this opinion is so very much identified with this civil initiative, which talks about some riding schools, that they're not insured enough that it's not. If you look at the marriage, in two chapters of the talk is just about cavalry, horsemen, and not talking about memorial protection, not talking about how to do it. If you want to watch, everything can be wrong, and every marriage isn't perfect, clearly. And I agree with Daniel, and I also agree with Mayor Séžana when he once said that the law could not give the right people. If this management, which is so in the teeth of the local government, is working differently and thinking differently than before, by having results, if all is wrong, then this matter simply reminds me of typical Slovenian behaviour, which is literally status quo. It's supposed to be, but it wouldn't be. It is said to remain as it is, God do not let anything change, even though we want it to be changes and be something else. These two certainly don't go together. And these old powers and this old way of thinking are not for Lipica, certainly not. When it comes to what this government, what this ministry has done – at least what it has done, these 6 million and a half have invested, if anyone has gone by chance to look at it, into the renovated city and the renovated stadium and into the renewed all the other things that they are, and with this law it is intended to invest at least 10 and then in the subsequent stages 10. So it has a vision that this matter will become what it deserves, and the entry point on Crassus, from which it will then be possible to go to the Scottish caves, to Steinjel, to Postojna and so on and so on. One compares why it is necessary to change from a public institution to an economic society I must say that I was absolutely in favour of this, for a purely simple reason, because companies must then act economically and absolutely must act in the way that is characteristic of economic societies. [[…]] But the public service has to do it for a pencil, for a toilet paper, I don't know what to do with the invitations, the subscribers, I don't know what to do, it's hard to reward employees in a public office and so on and so on. So, there's a lot of that. The second part, says today's law we're talking about, is logical continuation, absolutely. If this government, this ministry and ourselves did not believe that something could be done with Lipica, we would not have made 10 million investments in this law. In most cases these are things that oppose each other, and this family of bad relationships in the collective because of those four, five coaches who were put on vacation and, of course, it is wrong for them to be a French coach, because it was earlier Austrian and it was better, otherwise it was more expensive, but it was better than this, because it has the same price, but he was this, of course, a younger coach, of course he has different views on this, and the program does not say that the classic riding school is neglected – which is not true, those who went to see the new program also know that the elements of the classic riding school are included with the modern shade. The world's moving on. We're staying on these same things, and when you see that there hasn't been any change in 26 years, now that it's started to change, we're all against it. Well, that's typical of our Slovenian, that creaking in place. I wish I hadn't, and that's the logic that's unacceptable to me. Steps are set in a good direction, including just hotel business, if you look at it per se, it seems by itself, this form of a three-star hotel has taken additional steps; they have raised prices and also received more inputs and more income on this account. Visions are extremely ambitious. He wants to make a nine-point golf game. It is said that there is also work to raise the added value to a higher level, because then it is known that there are guests, and then it must be offered. “Yes,” you will say, “the guest offer is not yet on the level.” Of course it is not, but half can't be in one year, even because such demand for catering workers is like it hasn't been before, because thank God it's boom, the bloom of this tourism. One goes with the other, it says, if you take one step at a time and if you have a vision of what you want, and you try to have some kind of arrangement with the local community, but not the way some people want a civilian initiative to tell someone how to work. No, no, no. I think that civil initiative can work together, it can make proposals, but leadership is set up for this and will be objectively responsible for what will happen. And then all possible matters are negative, without specifically assessing this law. Yeah, people have problems with holding, and I also agree with Bojan when he said holding has some negative connotation, but whatever it is, it has to be overcome. The holding was, as instructed by the Ministry of Finance and together with the lawyers with MGRT, a solution that enforces what the Court of Auditors demanded and that it adheres to certain laws and rules that are necessary in order to coexist between two individual entities as part of the holding. This does not mean that we will have three directors, three secretaries and three ficuses, but that the director of the holding company will have a hand over both parts, which will work together and actively together, what Mr Tonin said in New Slovenia. So the direction is right, but in fact the need for the people themselves to trust them and to see in these steps that have been taken so far, in the year and eight months, and the results that are here to show them some confidence, but not that both the local community and all other political parties are trying to somehow get involved regardless of the fact that the vision and operation are positive. Now we can say that a lot of things are wrong, but if we are specific if we are talking about the Leipzig riding school, do you even know that there are no written documents anywhere on this famous Lipi school – in all these years this has not been done – that it is also good to say that the work reports will be required in this law; that there is also a local community listening, that there will be six members in the supervisory board of holding, of which two representatives of the workers will be one of the other four will be one of the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture – which is logical because there are specialists for livestock, horsemen and everything else – and three others from the MGRT will be proposed in agreement with the congregation of Sežana? If all these steps are so bad, then I find it difficult to speak in any other way than to be surprised that someone really wants Lipica to start a new life. We may have to reward these deserving old members, tell them, thank you very much, you have had time, and now leave some to the young. When I talked to the employees myself, the younger ones, of course, were all full of enthusiasm, everybody wanted to work and they said, look, all that talk is just a handful. It's always this antagonism that is old and new. But if we are a little bit interested in the future, and if we really want to take some steps forward – far from what some say they want to do now from Lipice Disneyland – I think that this leadership and all those who are employed there are well aware of what we have there, from the gallery to the buildings themselves, which are extremely pompous and have their way. I don't believe any of those employees are so willing to destroy it on purpose. The ministry, as it were, has shown to all the other ministries that have had a desire in all these years, the will to have them present – not from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of Agriculture, but have always shown themselves and were only there when problems occurred, while the Ministry of Economy in this government has shown – its attitude towards this and I think we can trust them that they really think only well. If we're just looking at negative things, how this is going to privatize, how this is going to be destroyed, then it's better to conclude that then we don't even do any more things, because obviously everything is so bad that it doesn't even make sense to go on with these things. Here, in this particular matter, all the extensions are designed to indicate some great insight into the future, what can be done there. The one who could also listen to this management, which is set up, heard that they have extremely ambitious plans to make a complex of hotels and family hotels there and that this would be some sort of walking point and that it would connect with the carriages, and the Škocjan caves and Stinjel, as I had previously said, and that the local population would fit. I speak here from the soul and from the heart, because I am there many times, and I see that there is progress. I'd like the hospitality to be on a higher level, too, to be all together, but I've learned that it's just going gradually, step by step. Positive steps have been taken, no one can say that they are not, but those who will look for negatives – and these are full of us, this is our Slovenian feature that we are looking for some indiscretions and negativity ourselves, not to look constructively or to try not to persuade and at least to come help and say, see, my proposal would be such and such a no, it is best when a civil initiative is set up, immediately goes to the media, the media is happy to grab it because it is negative. [[…]] But no one begins to talk about positive steps, positive things, that Lipica opens up, that there is more visitation, that there is more income, that more people can get a job. But no, we prefer to look at bad things because it's just in our nature, and we're all happy and happy that someone's going bad. We're almost there. If this is how we create our future and act, then it's up to us to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u55	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this? I'm guessing yes, so I'm inviting you to sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I must respond to the debate of Ambassador Ferluga. It's interesting that like a cat you step on his tail, he jumped and said, "I'm not going to be the director of Lipice." And I didn't say you'd be Director Lipice, despite all the different opinions and information, but somehow you came forward. But I do know that when you passed this law a year ago, you set up your reproductive organs to sort things out in Lipica, and I know why you're fighting now, actually. Okay, I get that. But there's no way I can accept the obvious that we're just looking at bad things. On the contrary, you know, colleague Ferruga, if you're honest and honest, we have been very cooperative in the adoption of Lipica's legislation since the first day in Levica, and we've met with union representatives, employees, and we've also gone to Lipica. In short, just like you, who are the representative of this coalition, we are in opposition, which is probably our task, watching carefully over this public good, the Lipica and the Lipican, which is from all of us. And then I find it completely inappropriate to hear that if there is no circumcision at all, the thing will continue to be that only the malicious speak. This is very close to Minister Restoration and his way of thinking, for if you oppose any of his not overly sensitive decisions, you are an ecoterrorist and so on. You're saying we're subjected to old socialist thinking. In socialism, Tito himself took care of Kobilna Lipica and there was no damage to this social property or any place. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Ferruga, I let you speak. In short, we have been alerting the issue in Lipica since the entry into parliament itself and we have also tabled four amendments to the debate here in the National Assembly to ensure that the funds are, for example, from the core capital of Holding Kobilirna Lipica, d.o.o., not only invested in infrastructure in Lipica, but that all other activities and tasks of the co-balancing company, which we know are a little neglected here. We're not just going to invest in the walls, we're going to invest in the masonry just, the equipment of the riders and coaches and so on. This is our amendment to Article 37. With the amendment, we wanted to prevent the possibility of a later privatisation of society. If you say she won't be here, support our amendment, which will explicitly require society not to privatise. In the amendments to Articles 44 and 45, we guarantee that Kobilna Lipica will operate transparently and that the implementation of the law will be able to be monitored by the National Assembly. Please, the coalition and Members of the SMC – what is at stake in these amendments? If you have good intentions, then just press the key for and we'll all be happy and happy. You said how this old man was facing a new one and so on. You say the French coach has different views. According to my information, this coach is Spanish, and performances are not part of the Lipicans and the classic riding school that you say there are no records of. It's hard for you to write down how lipican jumps, but there's a tradition, and it's a classic Danish school, which is why Lipica was founded in the first place. You know, the contract with a foreign coach, a Spanish coach and not a Frenchman was signed in a foreign language – are we in Slovenia or are we not, honourable Members and Members? In a foreign language, in secret, voluntarily and without the procedure laid down by the Public Procurement Act, but we are talking about public funds. And don't encourage us to want bad development and Lipica, but when we talk about public funds, it's not your resources, you didn't give your pocket what you can call this Spanish, and now you're gonna be doing attractive shows with Andalusian horses and we're gonna have a lot of tourists. That's not how it works! Lipica is something we need to protect and protect. I hope we agree on that. Public performances are not in line with the untouchable tradition of the Leipzig classical riding school and this foreign coach does not have the appropriate licence for international horse riding. The Leipzig riding school is also protected as a illogical heritage under the law itself. Apparently the leadership of Kobilarna Lipica violates this law and does not respect it. Well, the law was in line with a civil initiative that bothered you so much at the beginning of 2017, but why was the law amended and the civil initiative no longer had a say in this? Why was the initial law, which was sent in November 2017, EUR 300,000 a year for the financial implications of the new act, and EUR 2 million 827 thousand 583 a year under the MGRT? Why? These are all the questions we are asked. And 10 million of the basic capital of the holding company, most of the money will be spent on infrastructure, to rebuild hotels and so on – where are the horses, where is the care for them? Well, emphasis, we said, on tourism, restoring hotels, but Lipice's primary activity is completely forgotten. Horses themselves are not dependent on hotels, golf and swimming pools. The bankruptcy of Lipica Tourism in 2016, okay, was needed to provide, as the union also points out, the employment of people working alongside the minister, thereby giving the future strategic manager a basis for future action. You know, they're in Kobilana right now - maybe those people who say they're happy, these young people - they're busy for a while, they're students and penitentiaries, while many of the employees have been fired, they've filed lawsuits, and that money will also cover public funds. The dismissed workers complained, with a complaint made in the higher court, and damage amounting to EUR 114 000 was incurred in the form of a discharge which had already to be paid by Kobilirna Lipica. In short, allow us, for these are very serious concerns. If we move on, you said, "The queen's horse was old and he died." Maybe he was old, I'm not saying anything, maybe his heart was failing, but the autopsy sheet shows that the horse had two hematomas on his left and right, and a torn intestine. The horse is a very big animal. Before you hurt him like that, there's got to be a lot going on. Good thing there's an investigation going on about it, and I think if it turns out that the Queen's horse has been tortured, it won't be good, we'll be witnessing an international scandal. Let us put aside the fact that I feel sorry for every living thing, every noble animal, every horse. How many times have we heard of the poisoning of horses, such as after performing in the Colossae! We've never found out who poisoned the lipids, and that's scandalous, sorry. And the death of the queen's horse--as far as we know, before his death his guardian went to the hospital for ten days, from 20. 11. to 30. 11. 2017, and the horse was forgotten in the fence. In Lipica, where the primary activity of the horsemaker is supposed to be, a special horse, which has a symbolic value, which we once, as something proud of Slovenia, gave to Queen Elizabeth of England, forgets for 10 days in the fence. And 10 days later, a horse dies, you say, of natural causes, full of damage, hematoma, and a ruptured bowel. It seems to me that these things are something that we really need to talk about, and not just talk about, the wicked talk. This is evidence, and if a civil initiative is besieged by this or anyone who cares about the protection of our cultural heritage and tradition, then let it be taken in good faith. Let us think about it here in Parliament to discuss this. As it is said, if you support these 4 amendments, you will confirm that what you are saying is, indeed, that you will be the responsible master, that the cobalt will be able to report to Parliament and that privatisation will be prevented with the amendment. Then neither will we oppose this law, and probably not a civil initiative or any other interested public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u57	Replica, Mr. Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u58	Thank you, Violeta, really. I don't know where you got your Spanish, but okay. I have assurances that it's French and that it has a license, so much for that. I know you've finished AGRFT and that you can have all these more pompous, more dramatic performances and that, but [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] How? Yeah, look, that's how it's guaranteed, I believe. Okay, now we have the opposite position in this case, so, yeah. But I'll ask then, we have a president of the public office here, so he'll be able to say so himself. On all this, I can see that you are well-educated by a civil initiative, which is nice and right, but this is one side. On the other hand, you probably haven't asked the other side if you haven't been able to ask? But okay, that's what it is. Usually, it is always necessary to weigh both sides and then make a decision. It's very easy to talk like that, it's nice to talk like you know how to talk, things – I also say they're not all uniform – which are here, can turn to one side or another. Depends on how we look and where we stand. The fact that everything is right and everything is wrong is not. That's what we're clear about, I think so, both of us. But it's interesting, because I'm saying how things are, and on your part, and on my part, and on my part, that I'm kind of taking it more personally, because this industry and this industry are more at heart than anyone else, somehow the debates sound more and more political and very little substantive. So, yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u59	Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I admire all those who place all their reproductive organs on a matter, and therefore I admire our colleague Mark, who is really trying to improve the position and status of our Lipica, this cultural and tourist pearl of ours, in order to improve the situation in this company, in this economic society, and that this would indeed be our tourist symbol, for which every Slovenian could be proud. It is also true that the law cannot solve all problems and problems, nor can we solve all the problems and problems that have accumulated in the past in our companies and in public services. I'm a little surprised that the holding company has become some sort of problem, some kind of a status form of economic society. We have very good holding companies, we have very well-standing companies with this status form, and if it ever happened in the past that we had some problems with holding companies as such, then this does not mean that such a form would not be suitable now for say our Lipica. Only this reason that some bad karma is around holding companies can't be a reason to argue. It is also true that we have already made some important decisions about Lipica in the State Assembly in the past, and all these important decisions have also been rethought and may have been very critical in the debates. I also remember some terrible findings about what will happen to the horse if we make these decisions. Those who have visited our cultural and tourist pearl recently, however, have been able to find out what has changed, of course for the better. There's been a lot of talk about this, so I wouldn't repeat myself, but I'm glad that's the case. It is true, however, that those of us who are perhaps a little more culturally sensitive have been caught with our ears at the moment when we received some critical comments from the Ministry of Culture. At this point, I can say that the problem in interpreting was actually the importance of cultural participation in the protection profession, which can very quickly occur that there would be a manager who, without any feeling and respect for heritage, would destroy this cultural pearl or cultural values that are in the area of Lipice and in the wider part where Lipica has its premises, barns, hotels and other infrastructure. Therefore, without the participation of cultural heritage protectors, as I have already said, an object may become a parade of hindsight and the destruction of universal beauty over many years. In this case, we have also been critical, and we are therefore even more pleased that this cooperation has recently taken place between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Economy and that we have received a notification in these days that you have agreed to accept these provisions so that we can accept the peaceful souls. We also highlighted some of these changes in the agreement with the two ministries, and we have already found that they are not as many problems as they might see and know at the first moment. Therefore, we welcome these decisions and, as I have already said, we culturers will rather and more gladly support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u61	Mr. Luka Moon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Otherwise, I abstained on the committee on the vote on the law, but today I will not abstain if our amendments are not accepted. After a more detailed review of this law, I also think that this is a step forward, but the question is which way forward. I get the feeling that this is a step forward in the direction of commercialisation of activities, it is a neglect of the basis, and on the other hand the exclusion of those parts of control, especially local communities and employees, who have so far cultivated a critical attitude towards everything together. In short, centralization under the Ministry and current leadership. Why am I critical of this? One is that the basic activity is neglected, it is riding, working with horses, caring for animals. It's a mare, though. For many years we have been listening to calls to establish an academy of horseback riding, and French, where the basic activity is focused on horses. How we treat or treat horses and riders now leads can be seen from a number of events. One is this, Violet has already mentioned a foreign coach, and I'm not going to go into whether it's Spanish or French, I went to look at the Internet, but it's not that important. In short, our main coach in Lipica is supposed to have 840 euros in salary, a coach who was hired abroad, and this is what the local community representatives told us — 200 000 euros a year. This is how they solve the problem of the non-existent riding academy. Not to try to build a formal structure there, so that people who invest their work will also be properly rewarded, no, but we will import a trainer, give him a fabulous contract, and count on things to be miraculously resolved now. He won't! These are some of the practices that we see too often in this country! Instead of investing in equity, in making me an internationally comparable institution that would train coaches and horses and so on, we will throw it all away and hope that some fat contract with an internationally recognised expert will save everything that is wrong there. He won't. What triggered this is an even greater dissatisfaction among employees, between riders and in the local community, and this is not how it is done. That's the first thing. The second question is how to deal with horses. I think this queen's horse mentioned is just a symptom. Mr Ferluga repeats the words of the leadership, which states that the horse was 25 years old and that it had broken his heart, but the autopsy clearly showed the bruising and the ruptured abdomen. You can find this on the Internet, too. This is an official position, a ruptured abdomen. If this stallion, considered the most noble in Lipica, was treated in such a way that someone tore open his abdomen, then I wonder how it treats the other animals there. Is it just a means to increase the value before the sale of Lipica or is it a breed with a half a thousand-year tradition to which we will invest and on which we will build the future of Lipica? In my current ambitions, I'm concerned that it's the first one. Thirdly, the law mentions that 10 million euro should be invested in Lipico, in particular in activities around Lipica. This in itself seems too tempting to me that when a country actually pours this money into an institution, it will try to get to that social property. That is why I agree with Violeta and we have also made such amendments because we do not believe that the anti-privatisation guards in this law are currently sufficient. The last thing I'm going to be critical of is control. We were assured on the committee that they were representatives of the workers. I went to take a closer look, and I see that a second Bologna level is prescribed for the employee representative, but the employees in Lipica, those who are involved in the basic activity, are riders, horse trainers and so on, and often do not have this other Bologna degree or have it at all. This high threshold reminds me a little of what we see in banks and what we were critical of. Banks and insurance companies in our country also have the right to co-manage on paper, but these employees have to do, say, fit-and-proper tests in banks. These are tests that must be carried out by the capital part of the administration and are now required by employees. What's going on? The employees do not have such people and then find one of the least bad or the most favoured representatives of capital outside and say, "Okay, you will be our representative," or they do not have that representative at all. I'm worried it'll be similar in Lipica. And it's similar with the local community and so on. In Levica, we will not vote against this law only on the condition that today, through the debate, and in particular through the vote on the amendments, the drafter is prepared to cut the law by means of indicators of better control, ensuring the development of the basic activity, that is, cavalry, and the installation of permissible anti-privatisation protectors. These are things that, as I have described, are currently not working in Lipica, and we are concerned that after the adoption of this law they will only continue or even deteriorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u63	Since there is still an interest in the debate, I invite you to apply for the debate. The application shall be made. The first one gets the word, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. Say good-bye to everyone again! I am sorry that today there is a lot of this debate in terms of defending the MGRT and the shortcomings that are supposed to be in line with the law, which is not at all a problem today. We, too, in the first draft of the law, which was two years ago, supported MGRT's proposals and also supported a single solution to take over Lipica one government resort, in which case it was an economy. It is also likely that now is not the time to discuss whether this decision was appropriate or would be a more appropriate decision by any other source. The fact is that the Ministry of Economy has certainly worked hard in this work to find one common denominator that would have led to the success of Lipica, who is truly, unfortunately, having been dealing with problems for a long time – because these problems are the biggest consequence of the country's inefficiencies and so on. But now it is likely that further discussion of this is likely, a step forward has been taken, by the fact that there was also a certain commitment to remain in the base of Lipica in the first place. If we have concerns today, as has been said, even in coalition parties – I do not think that the role of the coalition and opposition here is as much as the fear that the weight of the lipican can really be ignored in order to improve the tourist story itself. We were also warned by a civil initiative that certain proposals were still being made in the drafting of the law – mainly in the direction of the protection of the Lipica riding school, which is, of course, part of the education of the Lipicac – did not want to be included in the law itself. All that I'm listening to in the debates, I have to say that I didn't know until today, but if there are foreign coaches, horse-breeders, that horses have also started importing from elsewhere, then I'm afraid that the basic activity of tourism has actually begun to be subordinated. It is said whether we have in front of Lipica and Lipica, who built her reputation and had all the time on the basis of Lipica, or maybe fear on the other hand, or thinking that no one would imagine that people would go to Lipica because of a beautiful hotel, because of a golf course, and horses would be just one extra point in the party of these people who will visit Lipico. This, of course, cannot happen in my opinion. This is probably where certain assurances were sought from them. The path that started at the Ministry of the Economy, I think, was appropriate, must have required some uniform leadership, surely all the criticisms that have been made in the interim at the expense of putting borders between public and private work, even the actual physical setting of fences, are unacceptable. On the other hand, I think that probably today, there should not be much science to provide a cost-effective place in public work, including both the education of the Lipicans and the tourism work that is market-oriented, and it is logical that it is market-oriented. But all the time, with the desire behind us to keep the lipican that we've been trying to preserve, which is why Lipica's connection with the Vienna school, which, if it goes as it was said, we're moving away. In this case, the fear of employees in Lipica and the population around us is that by reducing the weight of this school we are actually starting with the breeding of horses, which of course is going on. Only a Lipican without this school is likely to be no longer a Lipican in the long run. If there is really a minimal possibility that this type of work would also fall out of connection with the Danish school, then these are too many risks and today we are talking only more or less about warnings, about the fear that this would not happen. Because otherwise – of course I understand – the objective and purpose of the tourism economy is to create profits to attract as many people as possible, which is legitimate, which is logical and understandable. On the other hand, it is feared that this would be at the expense of raising and raising lipicans who cannot become circus horses. That's not what they're meant to do. The Leipzig School had its own programs, it represented certain events typical of this horse breed, and it is likely that it makes sense to keep it going because it gives lipican its weight. If we listen to people who have lived with these horses and still live to say today that they are becoming Lipican worth as much as he has a kilo, then I have to say that I care because these people are not just working and just to get some 100 euros, but I believe that they really care about keeping the Lipican as a species, and I believe that we should all be up to it. Although we understand and it is logical that we expect Lipica to operate financially as well. And we expect that the country will also provide the necessary resources for this part of the public programme financed by public funds, precisely in order to ensure that the market work does not have to be affected by the tourism work in this segment in any way or other, because it is the duty of the State. Lipicanec is the pride of Slovenia, not just Lipice, not just those few municipalities that connect to Lipica. But if I look at the context of the tourist work, it seems at least not wise enough if there is no proper agreement and connection with the local municipalities. Because they say she's not. It is difficult for me to imagine – the same way I live in a tourist destination, one of the most tourist places – that the country plays one of its stories past the local community and leads its tourism in the area where we live. That's not working. Some obedience and agreement with the people who live there, not only with the mayors, but mainly with the population, must be found. I don't know how much energy has been invested in this, I believe you've been talking to each other, I believe it was a wish, I believe there may also be irrational demands on both sides, but under the line without such cooperation at the end. That is why there are concerns about this law, not because they would not recognise the MGRT that they are actually trying to take a new step forward. That is why I also believe that there is a sincere desire that, here and there, a security guard who did not want to be included in the law during the treatment phase will only be involved. Because someone who goes about business and tourism is a business, I believe that he will try to be optimal on this side, even at the cost of something else. Not everyone has the same attitude toward animals or special breeds, not least to the local population, who must suffer in order to earn well. Speaking of Lipica, this is not any area in Slovenia. Even when we are talking about concessions or anything, including privatisation, it is not the same as if we were talking about the Scottish caves, about the Postojna Cave. There, okay, someone manages it, okay leads, has visitors, as many as possible, it will be better for horses, special breeds that need certain conditions, of course not quite the same. And for a long time, the Ministry of Agriculture, which had previously taken care of these horses, defended them all the time. I'm afraid there's no proper balance here, in this part. Far from reading the current administration or the ministry, not trying to do what they were told to do, even with the law that had already been passed. Therefore, in my view, it would be actually worth talking about the amendments that Levi has made, of course, if it really does not stick to the fig tree in this part. The country has its own interests here, and it has to have them. Lipicacanca cannot leave one tourist organisation not to some concessionaire, but it must keep watch over what is precious and characteristic of Slovenia and give something for it. When this is evident from the proposal, I do not think there is any reservation. Because once again, we all realize that the situation, like it was two, three, four years ago, is unsustainable. Horses were humming, nothing was going on, so we were on the same track to forget about our Lipican, but now in the other direction again afraid that it would become a regular horse, dedicated to cheering up and a better visit to the tourist complex, that's all. I say, I believe that the Ministry's purpose is genuine, but given that we are different people – even those who come to the management of this tourist complex – have different interests and thinking – need security guards. These guards are supposed to be married. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u65	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u66	I thank my predecessor, my colleague Gantar, who has very cleverly and rationally explained why guards are needed. When we adopt marriage, we do not accept it as we do at home: “I am sure that I will not do anything and that we are honest and will not come to this.” The law must be written down by the guards, because you do not know who will come after you, which government, who will lead Lipica, and what will happen. Therefore, it is also necessary to protect the Leipzig School of Classical Riding by law so that each government will not be able to or should not interfere with the process of training or changing elements. If you mean it, you mean it, then support the amendments that guarantee it. Then we will remain calm no matter who, left, right, central government. The law will protect Lipica and Lipicance, because on the property of Lipica, which is a cultural monument of the highest national importance, including a herd of Lipican horses as tourist activities, must be proud of the country. I think we agree with that. Its activities are primarily horsemen and cavalry, protection of cultural heritage, tourism, sport and hospitality, and in particular management of the property of the Republic of Slovenia. And we need to protect this property. I am aware that once more ministries were watching over Lipica, there was no good, there was no interdepartmental cooperation. In some ways, it is good to be managed by one ministry, but this ministry should, however, ensure cooperation with the local community, employees and, above all, take into account the protection of Lipica and Lipican, because the Lipican is not a circus horse. Lipiscan can have a more protocol function. I'd be happy to have some high-level government visits to show them what a lipican can do. Of course, he won't do circus shows. What worries me is that, according to our information, whether the top coach is now Spanish or French or Chinese, he is performing performances with Andalusian horses. He brought with him his performance of trained Andalusian horses. I'm sorry. I'm worried about the lipid gene material, the purity of the lipid, the protection of the lipid. 'Cause what happens now? Anyone who's a little more attractive will be replaced. Lipica exists because of a horse of Lipica, she has a name that they share a horse and a place. I think Andalusia, I'm sorry, just so that more tourists can come and say, wow, there's really nothing to look for here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u67	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u68	I have to breathe a little, because what I've been listening to is already, you'd say to us, mile balle blu, literally, and I'm not even going to translate what that means. Now let's start from the beginning. To my friend Mescu, “commercialization and neglect of basic activities” – please, no. It's not ballads, it's just when it's square when you can't listen anymore. I mean, if you haven't even read the law, if you don't even know anything about it, and you start blaspheming things like that, because of commercialization, you ignore it, then it's already too much. [[…]] My dear moon, we can go to Lipica together when you have time, and we'll go see what that means. The basic activity is known exactly what it is, and there all people know that without the Lipicans there can be neither tourism nor hospitality nor all other matters. Let's stop talking this nonsense here because it's already too much. Around pay, okay, these wages are low, just please, take the calculator into your hands, type 200 thousand divided by 12 and you'll get, you won't believe, a thousand 666,66, it's possible twice the base salary of that and this is the leader! [[Incomprehensible]] Come on, please, stop talking nonsense here and fool the people. I'm going now – I have to breathe and now I'm going to talk slowly. In front of me is sectional exam number 335/17, December 1st, University of Veterinary, dead stud. I will not torture you because there are more sides to this test, I will only read the last part, so that Mrs Violet may listen to this too. This is an official institution and it writes here the following, after all that they have done: the epiphany was carried out on the same day, based on the history of the sectional test and the results of the tests carried out, we believe that the deaths of animals have been caused by acute heart failure. If he's holding this, I don't know, it's a document. Now I can bring it to you so you can see how and what. But for the fact that the local community was not involved in this law. Mr Renchell, a prominent representative of the Civil Initiative, sat with me on my right when we talked about all these matters at the Ministry of the Economy and at the Ministry of Finance, and you can check it out and you can ask him. So that he wasn't aware and that he wasn't here, he can't be true, because I was there for him, unless I dreamt about him. So much for not being around. Andalusian horses that are in Lipica I don't think I've seen this, but I don't believe that – here is the President of the Public Institute and he will be able to tell if they're involved in the show because it's a too much. Circus horses; for someone there are circus horses, whatever they do if they don't do those things, but do you understand that it's not a neglected Lipi school and this traditional riding school and all these tricks inks, but new things are added? Let's not get carried away here and talk like that, because in fact, if they were both in public debates organised by the civil initiative for Lipica – I was on both of them and I know exactly what they said and what they were saying. I tell you, there was at least a speech on the law, but all possible other objections were discussed, and the road was being regulated now, which we also had a problem with, because the Ministry of Culture is making a problem out of this and that. But okay, we'll take care of that too, because I promised we would. And I put my word, yes, Violeta, not just words, and I said, "I'm gonna put my balls on the table because of this marriage and because of Lipica, because it's about getting this thing settled." There's nothing to do here except that it's some old offense, and that three or four old coaches were put on vacation because they didn't like that they needed a little more training, a little more work. I've already told you about circus schools and Andalusian horses. To ignore the classic riding school, once again, it's not true, but they're adding new modern elements. That lipican is worth as much as he weighs, this can be said by those old men who led to this stage of Lipican riding school, where they had no program or action or nothing. It is necessary to say clearly and loudly once again that Lipica only receives an account from the horseman 2 million 800 per year, and if you think this is going to market and other matters, it is not true because she cannot go because of the Court of Auditors which gave this. In the public debates where I was personally present and I noticed everything — unfortunately, I now forgot it in the car, everything I wrote down there — I have to stress once again that the essentials were nothing more than the contents of this law. And one more thing to say, personally and – I know – the ministry and the ministry are also trying to make a major state visit to Lipica and many statesmen have come to see Lipica. But for everything that's said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u69	Replica, Mr. Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, again. Comrade Ferlug, I don't really know how to argue with you. You said to me, "Oh, please, this is a mile balle blu," whatever that means. I mean, maybe you're the best player in Parliament. If I was watching this on TV, I might still believe you, but now that I've listened to you, you haven't answered any of your questions. There's no answer. That's the first thing. That's another thing. When you say you're saving a classic riding school, see, the classic riding school in Lipica is not formalized. In the classic riding school, it caused a lot of dissatisfaction that you brought in a coach who paid more than ten times as much as everyone else. I don't know how you count, but 200 thousand divided by 12 isn't a thousand 666, which is a little bit above the average wage, but it's 16 thousand 666, which is ten times the average wage! The head coach in Lipica gets 840 euros. Of course he's unhappy! And they'll be even more dissatisfied. Even because you're taking control of them because you're kicking them out of an institution where they've invested so much energy and effort, and of course it's a dissatisfaction. Why are you doing this? Because your purpose is clear. One is to ensure control of the whole matter, to bring out employees and the local community, the other is to make the matter profitable, so that those who are being pushed out now say that you are turning performances into circuses, and that you will pour 10 million into activities there. By doing so, you expect to receive a profitable institution that will be able to serve many people even after the elections. We've put in some security guards that we might consider trying to solve at least roughly. Since I see that there is no interest in talking about this at all, I have no other interest than to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u71	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else would like to discuss Article 15 and the amendment of SMC and SD's parliamentary groups? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 37 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. You want a word now? You have the floor, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your constructive comments. I think that certain things really need further clarification, so I would like to point out that at the Ministry of the Economy, with exceptional responsibility and commitment, we have undertaken the preparation of this new law, that we have joined together with the Minister all the closest colleagues, namely the two Directors-General of the Directorates and myself, of course, with the rest of the team, and that our desire to give added weight to the Lipica law, to the state monument, to the natural and cultural landscape and, of course, to the possibility of better management of the property itself. Therefore, I can say with certainty that three quarters of the law speaks of protected areas, cultural heritage and, above all, the horse of Lipica, which is, of course, crucial both for the law and especially for Kobilna Lipica. The law itself also states that Kobilirna Lipica is originally a masculine masculine. Even for the first time in law, there is also an insemination center, which has been very much talked about in recent years. Now he has also found a place in the law, in the desire to breed, breed and breed with an extremely rich heritage of 100 percent and maintain it. There are several articles on the normative breeding and breeding of horses, which will then also be reflected in the work of the expert council, which is absolutely composed of experts, both by the ICGP and the Ministry of Culture and the profession itself, and of course also on a breeding programme that can then be upgraded. With regard to the care of classical school, I would like to present, read for a short time, Article 25 of the Law states that the traditional form of breeding, breeding and training of horses for the preservation and development of the Lipican breed is adequately secured. In preparing the law itself, I cannot say that the law shows cooperation, but it is true that the law was created by the exceptional cooperation of ministries and also local communities. In our opinion, with the local community, we have always been very in touch, always available to anyone, whenever we were on the public tribunal, by now the local community of its member in the Kobilarna Lipica Institute, chaired by the Director-General of the Regional Development Directorate from the Ministry here on my left, and by the local community representative has followed the law itself as he has had every opportunity to engage very actively. There was a lot of talk about why holding, or whether it was 100% protection. The holding, in cooperation and in talks, also in inter-departmental talks, has proven to be the most logical and effective way of managing uniformly. Here I think that the point of contact among all the debaters was that Lipica needs uniform leadership and, of course, transparent leadership. Holding will therefore also have a very positive impact on employee performance, as now the coaches, coaches, will no longer be public servants and will also be more flexible here. It is also true that the change itself does not have a dilemma, and we believe that it is also written that does not mean the privatisation of Kobilar Lipica, that Lipica is 100 % owned by the Republic of Slovenia and that it must not share or transfer its share that it is the sole founder and associate of the Republic of Slovenia. In our view, if this is what the law says, it really seems to us that this is what it takes for all of us to believe that even if there were no good intentions in the future, the law is very clear in this area. Local community participation – I also believe here that the point of all discussions is that absolutely Kobilana Lipica or tourism in one area cannot develop without the very active and positive involvement of the local community. As already said, the amendment, which you will decide later, already provides for a change in this article. One of the three proposed by the Ministry of Economy is the proposal of the local community Municipality of Sežana, which is also in line with the ministry responsible for tourism. Two members of the workers – indeed, we have come to a conclusion later ourselves, as Mr Mesec has pointed out, so one of the amendments you will decide later actually deletes these high conditions, mainly regarding education as a member of the Supervisory Board, but is defined by the following acts. I would also like to point out to these two employees that today in Lipica there are more than half, almost two thirds of the employees of local people, Kraševci or from the surrounding area, so there is a pure statistical calculation that in the 6-member control council there could be as many as three representatives of the local community, because as employees, of course, you also breathe with the environment where you come from. So 1 employee and 1 member of the Supervisory Board, as already stressed by the Ministry, on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture. Investment – already before the Ministry of Economy became a Ministry of Economy, has been invested in public infrastructure alone for a few million euros. With the start of investments in 2014 in the cultural landscape, in the cleaning plant, in the stables, in the renovation of the castle, Velbance, the culinary museum, together with last year's investment in the hippodrome, which is also a public infrastructure, was invested together with European funds, but through the Ministry of Economy, 8 million euros. So you could say that, in fact, it has been invested in everything, in the public part, but not in tourism, and unfortunately, the hotels know that. It was about the death of a horse. Mr Ferruga read part of the autopsy report that doctors, professors who, of course, master it, have made in the veterinary faculty, is their profession. The last paragraph of this report — I want you to be familiar with it — has already been said that the autopsy showed that it was heart failure and then says: in addition to the damage caused by the fall, age changes have also been observed in animals. On average, the horse has an average weight of 600 kilograms, if it falls, it is likely logical to have any haematomas. At the Ministry, never, of course, since there was an investigation into the autopsy report, did we think that we would accidentally accuse one of the dedicated Lipi workers who work daily on horses, horsemen, horsemen, of having bad intentions with horses. Because they're there because they like horses because they're devoted to horses. And we believe that with the new law, this love and commitment will be able to live even more effectively and work together with leadership on the fact that Lipica, even here we all agreed, continues to grow and develop into the most recognized tourist destination or recognized element of Slovenia and Slovenian identity, but will also be successful and can take care of the development of the entire destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar. We continue the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 37 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the SMC and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 42 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the SMC, SD and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate in its entirety. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This also interrupts the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law to encourage tourism development. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of nineteen Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u74	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I thank you for the opportunity to present the proposal for a law promoting the development of tourism. The draft law comprehensively regulates the area of promoting the development of tourism, sets out the method of planning and activities for the implementation of the strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Slovenia at national level and the necessary resources to do so. It provides that the tasks related to the marketing and promotion of Slovenia's comprehensive tourist offer will continue to be carried out by the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, which will obtain additional funds from the title of the introduced promotion fee for the effective performance of its promotion tasks abroad. The proposal for a law regulates the granting of public authority as an opportunity for other legal persons to participate in individual measures and activities in the field of promoting the development of tourism and, on new grounds, governs the granting of the status of a legal person acting in the public interest. Planning and implementing the promotion of tourism development at the level of the tourist area will continue to be the responsibility of the municipalities, with dedicated funding for promoting development at the level of the tourist area, tourist fees and gambling concessions, which are the income of the municipality. The draft law also regulates the conditions for the organisation and sale of tourist packages, and these conditions under the applicable law are greatly simplified. The draft law also governs the profession of a tourist guide, the conditions to be met, the recognition of professional qualifications for this profession and the occasional exercise of this profession for persons from other States Parties. Tourism management at the level of the tourist area is also regulated. The first major novelty of the law, as already mentioned, is a rise in the amount of the tourist tax and the introduction of a new promotion fee. The amount of the tourist tax will also be determined by the municipality alone with the decree in the future, with a maximum amount of 2.5 euros prescribed in the law. In determining the amount of the tax, the municipality may take into account the type and category of accommodation establishments, the acquisition during the seasonal and non-seasonal periods and the exemptions. When deciding on the amount of the tourist tax, the municipality also assumes responsibility, taking into account the impact of a possible increase in the tourist tax on the competitiveness of accommodation establishments on the one hand and, on the other hand, the dedicated use of these additional funds of the municipal budget for the development of tourism in the destination. The news is a promotional fee that will be paid by guests together with tourism and will be set at 25% at the charged amount of tourism. The promotion fee will be the direct income of the Slovenian Tourist Organisation and will be intended for the promotion and marketing of Slovenia's comprehensive tourist offer. This will be the first time that we will provide a stable systemic source of funding for the promotion of tourism at national level. Given that the WTO had €13 million at its disposal for operation and all projects and for the work programme in 2017, the new available resources, together with the promotion fee, will be close to €19 million, in terms of the proportion of concession fees from special gambling already intended for the promotion and marketing of Slovenian tourism under the law. Furthermore, I would just like to highlight the recast of the conditions for the organisation and sale of tourist packages. The conditions for carrying out activities and selling tourist packages are simplified according to the law in force and the bill also takes into account the European Directive and provides for new exceptions for which the licence requirement will not apply, which will greatly facilitate the organisation of trips, as well as tourist packages prepared by schools and different companies. As it is said, the profession of a tourist guide remains regulated, only a tourist companion or travel guide will be deregulation. Finally, let me point out how important tourism development is for the Slovenian economy. After the fourth consecutive growth period, it still represents a good 13% of the social gross product and almost 40% of the exports of services. There is no doubt that in Slovenia we are following the development of sustainable tourism with higher added value and emphasis on quality and boutique offers in close cooperation with local communities and local suppliers or as we have written in the strategy, Slovenia is green, active and healthy for five-star experiences. While we are aware of the importance of domestic tourism, we know that further growth depends also on foreign tourism, and we propose that the bill be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u75	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues, a nice welcome once again to all present! The proposal for a law promoting the development of tourism will receive our support in the first reading, because we believe that there are fundamental objectives, principles and main solutions to the proposal in the right direction. As part of the presentation of the Group's position, I will not embark on a broader general debate on the importance and state of tourism in the Republic of Slovenia, but there is no doubt that this is an extremely fast-growing and evolving area among our country's greatest opportunities, both in terms of economic performance and greater visibility. Already, the share of tourism revenues, as previously pointed out, represents 13% of gross social product, which can be significantly improved by a comprehensive system-wide upgrade of activities, which also puts the proposed law at the forefront. Allow me to take a look at the bill from the point of view of the national community. I probably need not specifically explain that tourism from the point of view of the national community is a very interesting subject, both in terms of the visibility of the areas where we live and in terms of the opportunity for the national community to participate in tourism activities. Such interest is also prejudged by areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live. The coastline is mainly due to the already high share of tourism activity and Pmurje is seeking to improve this activity and thus to bring it closer to the Slovenian or Central European average. For the sake of this, we propose that, in the context of the consideration of the proposal, the content also be upgraded in order to clearly record the interest of the national community in tourism activities and the attention of the State to this context of the involvement of organisations and associations of national communities, which can be added to the area where they live, in terms of the integrity of tourism activities. The amendments for the second reading will be prepared by our parliamentary group in cooperation with the Ministry's responsible service. In the context of today's position, I should point only to the need to supplement Article 9 of the bill where a new indent could be added in paragraph 3 by stressing the concern about cultural values, extradition and the heritage of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Similarly, Article 15 of the draft law should be supplemented, where we will propose to add a new point to the activities and services whose performance at the level of the tourist area is in the public interest. Our proposal has legal bases both in Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in laws regulating the status and functioning of our organisations and institutions and their economic activities. As I said before, at the first reading, the bill will receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u77	Mr Marko Ferruga will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Once again, hello to the Secretary of State and the team! What about this marriage? SMC is aware and advocates that tourism is a promising economic activity that has all the conditions to become one of the most successful and important industries in Slovenia. It is particularly important as a catalyst for economic growth and development and as a job generator, which is clear. With its many beneficial impacts on economic and social progress, it is one of the main factors of national and regional development in Slovenia. Promoting the development of tourism is therefore of particular importance within the national economy. For four consecutive years, we have had the growth of a tourist visit. Tourism represents more than 12.8% of Slovenia's gross domestic product, not to mention the multiplier effects on other economic sectors, where it is estimated to be 1.75, which means that if tourism production increases by 100 euros, production in the economy as a whole increases by 175 euros. In the balance of payments of the Republic of Slovenia, tourism represents 7,5 total exports and 38 % of exports of services. This activity employs more than 45 000 people, of whom 30 000 are employed in the restaurant. Given that tourism is closely linked to other economic activities, it is indirectly linked to more jobs. The achievements that are not self-evident include the continuation of successful tourism development policies led by MGRT with Minister Počvalška. The law we are talking about today is one of the important pillars of the further development of a positive Slovenian tourist story about success and will provide a stable source of funding for the promotion and development of tourism in Slovenia. It is proposed that municipalities set a tourist tax of up to 2.5 euros. This would provide municipalities with additional financial resources of almost €7 million per year for the development of tourism. We hope that they will be allocated to tourism or tourism infrastructure. This is also one of the purposes of this law. Otherwise, guests will pay an additional promotion fee, but this is part of all the promotions. If we take a real look, we will no doubt find that the policies for the development of Slovenian tourism are appropriate, as the results have also shown so far, so we in the SMC Group have decided that we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u79	Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting to the secretary of state with the team and everyone else who is following this debate! We had already had one law that touched tourism in another area, but now we have a law to promote the development of tourism. In this area, there have been quite a few discussions that have touched on all those who are active or active in tourism. In principle, this law has brought a number of welcome changes and some solutions that will accelerate the development of tourism. Unfortunately, however, I must conclude that some of the things that have been held in public hearings and debates so far have not been included in this material. There was a lot of talk about tourist taxis, unity. I think that the law now regulates this, especially with regard to accommodation facilities, including camps that were previously half-loaded with tourist fees, are now singlely burdened, which I think is good, and that in some tourist destinations it brings more income to local communities. However, the tourist tax has now reached a very high drop in terms of the increase. It should be borne in mind that so far the fee has been 1.26 euros and this proposal increases to 2.5 euros and an additional 25% to support promotions. I think this is quite a leap compared to the neighbouring countries. I believe we'll have to settle some things further. In view of the fact that this is the first reading, we in the parliamentary group will not object to this law, but we believe that some things will need to be further considered and some articles also reformed or supplemented and improved. If I stay with a tourist taxi, perhaps for some comparisons, in Germany there are between 0.5 euros and 3.20 euros, in Spain from 0.65 euros to 2.25 euros, which applies only to Barcelona, Croatia has up to 8 kunas at the moment, Italy from 1 euros to 5 euros, Austria from 0.55 euros to 3 euros, it is said that this increase is not so small. For example, Salzburg has a 1.1-euro tourist tax. This height and this solution are also different from those presented in public debates. In principle, we also agree that it is necessary to invest in the promotion at national level. Given the fact that we are now in a sort of conjuncture and have a good tourist visit, this is all the more important because it is necessary to realize that there is a need to invest in the promotion all the time, even when we have a sufficient number of visitors, we must not fall asleep on this. So we think this instrument can be good, but it's 25% in our opinion too high. It is important to be aware that we really gain a significant number of tourists through the promotion, but these tourists later expect a better service, a greater added value in the destination, and this can only be improved by returning most of the tourist tax to the environment where it is collected. There was also a lot of talk about deregulation. In the discussions that took place with the tourism providers, there was a lot of promise which, of course, does not exist in this law. It is true that some things are being simplified, but there are still licenses for tourist agencies, which are quite difficult compared to, say, Germany, which does not know this, but also some other countries have much nicer legislation in this area. Licenses for tourist guides also remain in this law, although there has been a speech to exclude this. It is worth imagining that in Slovenia we have a lot of historical and other details that probably those who care about these gifts know significantly more than some licensed guides. In these cases, as has now been rewritten in this legislation, it means that, I do not know, in the case of the Roads of Peace in Posoč, someone who spends his whole life dealing with this project cannot be a guide in this area if he does not have a license, which is nonsense. So there are some inconsistencies and bad solutions in this proposal as well, and generally, as I said, it brings some positive things, but there will also have to be certain articles that would make it even more significantly easier for all tourist providers to work in destinations. I am personally disturbed by the fact that there is no emphasis on the inclusion of other providers in the payment of a tourist tax, which is still based on a tourist tax related to overnight accommodation. If we look at models in other countries, some of the tourist money is collected from other providers participating in the destination, we are talking about all craftsmen, innkeepers and so on. Unfortunately, this law does not bring these solutions, and it is all about spending the night as well as the tourist tax. Secondly, there are also no instruments that would allow for greater flexibility of employment in the field of tourism. We have even received one response from the Ministry of Labour regarding the different treatment of tourism workers and workers in forestry and other sectors, where there are some facilitations that do not apply to the tourism sector. The argument is that the tourism industry does not have seasonal needs, which I think is a very wrong view again, because if we know that both the winter season and the summer season need quite a few people who have some seasonality, this regulation can be softened in this area, and obviously no one can see it. However, the second point is this flexibility and employability also with some contracts, which in particular in the area of catering and services are likely to significantly improve the supply. For by protecting certain professions, we are practically doing them a more machete service and do not release things, much more so in all neighbouring countries, which, therefore, also in the field of tourism, are much faster and faster to move forward. Let me finish. Although the law is written in the right direction, some solutions in the field of tourism are being made, but a number of improvements will have to be made in order to be fully confirmed, and we will also make a final decision on the support of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In fact, it seems to me that, according to some logic, this law should first be dealt with today only after Lipica, because it somehow goes into detail, but anyway, Lipica is already graduated today, and now for a short time the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism. Initially, I would say that in our Group of Members we find it somewhat unusual to say that even bravely to go up the tourist tax at the time of recovery not only of economic growth, but also of increasing numbers, an ever-increasing position in the field of tourism policy. Yet, of course, we are not where we should be or where we want to be. The objectives of our tourism strategy are very optimistic, they are already almost doubled, but the latest data shows that 4.3 million tourists visited us in 2016, which is about 10% more than the year before, and they created about 11 million nights, which is about 8% more than the year before. I believe that when the data for 2017 are more favourable, they will be even more favourable for 2018 than 2017 and so on and so on. Now for the raise. More taxes are never popular, no matter what category of population or what area they are talking about. If I focus only on foreign tourists, somehow we could still treat the matter as okay, but in Slovenia they are often focused only on one-day visits. Greater opposition can therefore be expected from our citizens, Slovenians and Slovenians, because we are very accustomed or, if we want to expose, passionate skiers, we like to enjoy skiing, as well as visiting our thermals, especially in wintertime. Skiing is, of course, exclusively in wintertime and thermal tourism, both during winter times and during various holidays, potatoes, school holidays and so on. Such predictions are possible only in those congregations where they decide at all or decide to raise this tourist tax as much as possible. The key novelty brought by the new law is also the payment of the fee on the amount of the tourist tax, and this is a promotional fee which will be the full income of the Slovenian Tourist Agency. In short, more money collected for a better tourist image of the country could be said in one sentence. What if, in the Desus Group, we also have doubts as to whether the municipalities will know and manage to invest effectively in the touristic image of their local environment? Without continuous investment in infrastructure and promotion in the country, we cannot stand as a recognizable and competitive tourist destination. In this regard, Slovenia has many times, if I may say so, saved beautiful natural beauty. We have everything, the sea, the mountains, the hills, the rivers, in short, everything you can want for a tourist destination. We must not forget the proud side offered by our excellent athletes, but also, of course, the culturers who behave the name of Slovenia far beyond Europe. Their extraordinary success has recently been a great plus in promoting the country, which the country should pay even more attention to. In our parliamentary group, we are still aware of this potential, as it is at our initiative that we have managed to encourage the competent department or ministry to adopt conclusions on the adoption of the budget for the next two years that will allow more money to be spent on sport. Now to the work which, despite some of the concerns I mentioned earlier, I have somehow considered or meant that we in the Desus Group will decide to support the amendment of the law. At the last proposed amendment, the government promised or provided arrangements for the organisation of school excursions in the direction of a clearer and broader definition of the tourist package. The proposal for a new law also provides for exceptions to, for example, professional excursions, or for different societies or, in particular, if you wish, pensioners' societies under precisely defined conditions, such as occasional trips, on a non-profit basis, for, as it were said, closed groups of people, and as an additional anti-abuse protector, a monetary limit in the known amount of payments for this purpose has also been added. During the entire term of office, we have advocated a fairer, more friendly, better regulation of small creditors, so we have proposed similar solutions, similar exceptions to the introduction of tax boxes for small producers in new cadastral income calculations and so on. We are in the same position on the exceptions to the proposal of this law. As we say, we will support the above-mentioned proposal for a law. Let me finish with one more thought. I place my trust on the soul of the operators of the tourism strategy, the politics of tourism in our country, and don't forget cultural tourism. According to the information available to us, at least 30% of tourists come to our country precisely because of our culture, precisely because of our rich cultural heritage, and I think that is the information that needs to stay and on which we need to build or, in particular, a new tourism strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u84	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Slovenia is certainly a special country. We are particularly special in that in one place, in an extremely small location, there is a concentration of exceptional diversity. When you talk to foreign tourists, they like it best in Slovenia that they can be accommodated in a Ljubljana hotel and decide at breakfast in the morning whether they will go to the rocky mountains or go to the Slovenian coast or maybe to the suburban thermals. This is one of the things that makes Slovenia special and we have to bet on. You know, you can be successful where you are slightly different, and Slovenia is different and special in that it is very diverse from other tourist destinations. This diversity attracts many tourists. However, it is the policy's duty to create an environment where tourism can grow as much as possible and where the tourism sector can also develop. With the support of tourism in Novi Slovenija, we think two things are crucial. One is to make it as easy as possible to invest in tourism infrastructure, and the other is to increase the promotion of Slovenia, and above all to start creating stories about local specialities that Slovenia offers. As far as infrastructure is concerned, resources are crucial. Without money, I'm afraid infrastructure can't be built. But it's also another part of the story, which is that even if you have super infrastructure, and if you can't sell it, if you don't have the right story, then the infrastructure doesn't help you. In this light, the Slovenian Tourism Organization, the WTO, plays an important role in increasing the visibility of Slovenia. One of the experts who has worked for many years in the field of tourism said: “The WTO makes the most beautiful brochures, catalogues in the world. So many beautiful images that you will find in the catalogues of the WTO are practically not found in other comparable organizations of other countries that deal with these things." But it seems to him that it is not enough that this is not all, that perhaps even the WTO has remained in some place, that beautiful pictures, if you want the most beautiful pictures, without an effective story do not yet bring tourists. Therefore, these experts have warned us that this law should contribute more to the WTO being built from the bottom up. What do we mean by that, from the bottom up? In Slovenia you have local destination organisations that market a region in Slovenia. It is precisely one link between these local destination organisations under the auspices of the WTO that should be upgraded and strengthened. In this law we somehow miss this – that the WTO's duty is not only to recognize Slovenia as such, but also to help the WTO build local stories, local tourist specialities. Here we see one flaw in this law, so to strengthen the WTO in terms of growth from below. As far as the debate is concerned whether the tourist tax will be properly and properly used, in Nova Slovenija we are convinced that if anyone, then the municipalities will spend the best tourist tax because the municipalities or local communities know what to build, what to invest in. They are most aware of their local specificities, so we are confident of this and have no fear of misusing the congregations, at least a large part of these congregations, a tourist tax. In a way, it seems to us here to comply with the principle of subsidiarity, so that we can transfer as much responsibility as possible to a lower level. A good part of this law seems to leave us a little bit more freedom, a little more room for manoeuvre to the municipalities in setting up a tourist tax. That's good. We are also convinced that this tax will be properly and usefully used by the congregations. The next issue, which was a lot of talk and on the basis of which the New Slovenia Group received quite a few visits, is the issue of regulating the tourist guide. You know that Nova Slovenije is a party that advocates the deregulation of professions, but in the case of a tourist guide it is necessary to recognise certain specificities. What convinced us most that it is in a sense – not in a way that this law proposes – I will explain where, not in such a way, but in a sense, where is it – wise to maintain the regulation of the tourist guide? When people who are involved in tourism tell you that buses are coming from Zagreb to Ljubljana and that Croatian tourist guides in Ljubljana The Congress Market are selling as the Market of the Republic, then you have to be clear that something with this is not okay. It's not just that you know well with people, that you can run a group, but it's important that you have some knowledge about your destination. That is why it seems reasonable and appropriate for us to take these things into account in the law, that everyone from Zagreb can't just come and guide and teach them what it is, but worse is that they explain these things wrongly or explain them very superficially. These things need to be taken into account. On the other hand, those individuals from municipalities who run various tourist societies, local cultural societies, who have vast knowledge, do not have such licences and do not intend to do so in the future. If this law had prevented some kind of local leadership for such people with a great deal of knowledge, it would not have been right. As today is a general discussion when we talk about principles and future directions, at least the New Slovenia proposal is that we find a path in regulating a tourist guide as a profession, which will at the same time prevent foreign tourist guides in Slovenia from speaking nonsense, perhaps even representing false facts, and that at the same time our own citizens, who are known to have a great deal of real knowledge, will still be able to carry out such guidance. Here, a clever combination should be found in the sense that, in the case of something that concerns at least local governance, part of the regulation can also be taken over by the congregation, not just by law. In this sense we in New Slovenia will also be looking for solutions in the future, this part of the law we want to improve further. Finally, I'd like to say the following, which is a positive thing about this law, but there are trips from firefighters' societies, pensioners' societies, school trips. You will most likely recall that some year ago Nova Slovenija proposed a law where this area would be regulated so that no school or firefighting society or pensioners' societies would be punished if, in its long-standing practice, she organized excursions, excursions and similar things. A year ago, the situation was really tragic, because the entire coalition backed up our content at the time and agreed that it was necessary to regulate it, but it voted against our law because it will now be regulated systematically by this law that is before us. To answer that it's not how long we've been waiting for this system law? [[…]] A year. I don't think there'd be any harm if our marriage were supported. We are pleased, however, that in the draft law before us today, those solutions that we have already proposed a year ago are being taken into account. If I conclude, in New Slovenia we will be slightly different from the coalition in the past, and we will not only oppose this law because it has been proposed by the coalition and because they are at the door of the election, but we will allow this law to continue its way to the second reading. In the second reading, however, we said that we would focus mainly on the issue of regulating the profession of tourism guide. I have already said in which direction we expect solutions and in which direction we want the law to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is a tourist country. Our natural beauty, cultural sights, culinary, geographical accessibility, membership in the European Union, a safe and peaceful environment, and last but not least, crucially, people who with their hospitality and effort provide an environment in which guests like to come and enjoy returning, all this and much more, is necessary to become a desirable tourist destination. The number of tourist visits and nights, the increase in the number of employees and the amount of investment in tourism, all these indicators show that tourism is on the rise. Walking through important Slovenian tourist destinations shows us that global tourism has already discovered Slovenia. Tourism has been a strategic economic sector of this country for many years. We all believe that this is a great opportunity, and we all feel that it is reasonable and proper to invest in its development. In recent years, circumstances and global uncertainties have also made sure that more and more guests are coming to us and we are also being discovered by tourists from other countries, who until recently did not even know where we are and did not belong to our permanent visitors. Countries and regions that have successfully placed themselves on the world tourist map have invested considerable resources, effort and, of course, knowledge. The words of a good tourist destination are not built overnight, and staying on top of it is even more difficult than in many other areas of life. It is therefore of paramount importance that Slovenia will now make full use of all its tourism potentials, to place more destinations on the world tourist map, to attract real guest profiles based on our tourist offer, to develop destinations and programmes that will attract new guests and ensure the return of old people to provide knowledge, decent payment and respect for all those tourist workers who, by their work, ensure that guests are satisfied with us and that Slovenia is famous as a country you must definitely visit. We must not blind ourselves and rely on the extraordinary good results of the Slovenian tourism economy to last indefinitely. Tourism is a sector that is particularly subject to acute competition, so it is imperative to take care of everything that improves our position on the desired destination scale. The number of responses to the draft law under consideration certainly proves that the professional and interested public also attaches great importance to this area and assesses the proposals as a step in the right direction. The most exposed solution to the bill before us is certainly the creation of a common source with which the Slovenian Tourism Organization can promote the whole of Slovenia as an attractive tourist destination. There have been no specific means of achieving these objectives to date, so Slovenia's international promotion depends in particular on the intensity and ingenuity of individual tourist destinations. A new tourist tax premium would be a constant source for the promotion of Slovenian tourism without unnecessary fragmentation of resources, which will present the beauty of Slovenia around the world and not just a few places. Since this is a first reading, it seems reasonable to point out some of the other proposals and warnings given in the context of public hearing. Among them, first of all, let us put forward the proposals of some municipalities in order to collect the tourist tax and share it between the tourist organisation and the municipality with the financial administration, which is better qualified and equipped to do so by the municipalities. We consider this proposal in the Group of Social Democrats as a good one, so we would not impose new burdens on the municipalities. We are pleased that in the proposal for a law they have also found their place, provisions allowing schools, societies and other similar organisations to carry out professional excursions and excursions without the compulsory intervention of the tourist agency. This eliminates another unfortunate solution that has caused much bad will in the past year. We are pleased that a solution could be found for this area. We also consider other responses from the public hearing Social Democrats to be constructive and suitable for inclusion in the hearing. We will pay particular attention to the position of workers in tourism when assessing the law, because we are convinced that employees represent the basics of each tourism economy. Only well-trained, well-rewarded and valued workers can provide a quality tourist experience. We believe that the general deregulation of professions does not guarantee greater accessibility to the staff of better employees or better quality services, on the contrary. That is why we want the amended law to intervene to the smallest extent possible after deregulation and thus ensure that those working in tourism can live with dignity from their work. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the draft law at first reading, but we expect to take into account the comments that we will make in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. The Act on the Promotion of Tourism is, together with the unconstitutional investment law, which introduces the Magna model, for all capitalists Magnum opus for the completion of Mr Počvalska's ministry. Its purpose is to deregulation of the area of tourism, workers and workers in tourism and related industries already have poorly paid and demanding services, while at the same time the Ministry will pay higher fees, which will further burden ordinary people. That's why we won't be supporting the marriage in the first place in Levika. Not only does he need a few improvements, but he needs a completely different foundation. This does not mean, of course, that we do not recognize or support the potential of tourism activities, but tourism is not the same as tourism. Not only are we reminded of cases from abroad, such as Barcelona, but many negative aspects can be recognized by us. Last but not least, the last few years have been record for tourism in Slovenia, every year we record more than 10% growth in tourist arrivals, the activity of tourism represents almost 13% of GDP, and at the same time it employs about this percentage of all employees in Slovenia. This is therefore an extremely important area, but the situation of workers in tourism is largely catastrophic. At the peaks of the season there are normal 12 or multi-hour workers, wages are on the minimum or just a little later, between 30 and 40 % of the jobs are on holiday. Extensive tourism also brings a number of environmental and spatial burdens. For example, tourism is the core of Ljubljana, which has a strong impact on the quality of life of the inhabitants here. Of course, there is also a different type of tourism, one that is sustainable and promotes and develops decent jobs. There are no good practices in this area, but the law, which will further deregulation of tourism, will not encourage them. It will encourage dumped tourism, with which tourism managers will serve large profits, the quality of tourism will suffer, and many workers and tourism workers will be burned to the point of barely earning a living. We can narrow the main problems of the bill into three points. The first point is the liberalisation of private interest to the detriment of the public. The State will subsidise those operators – both public and private – who are working to promote tourism. Instead of a clear strategy to achieve a shift towards ecological and also socially friendly tourism, quasi-entrepreneurs from the right quotas have an even greater role to play, of course, with different interests and perspectives. The state outsources tasks that you should perform on your own. So this is about deepening the current state of affairs, which is far from ideal. Secondly, a higher tax that will burden those with lower incomes. An increase in the tourist tax and the introduction of a new promotion fee is foreseen. The tourist tax is expected to be increased by two to three times, now limited to 11 points, which is approximately 1.26 euros. The promotion fee will amount to 25% of the tourist tax, the funds of the promotion fee will go to the Slovenian Tourism Organisation for promotional activities. How much of this money is parked through such or other political connections, we can only guess. Cases in the past show that the WTO is operating more quickly than ever. In 2016, municipalities collected €11.8 million of tourist fees, which is expected to increase to between €18 million and €20 million, which, according to the bill, would become a public agency for planning and marketing tourism offers, will receive €4.7 million more. In other words, it's about hitting tourists. Both administrations are regressive doses that place less burden on the property. The maximum total burden is €3 000 125 per day, which means €22 per adult for seven days, i.e. almost €80 for a four-member family. This is at least a day of leave that not so many people in this country can afford. At the time of raising the minimum wage, the Minister said without shame that Titus was gone and that populism could not be eaten. The third problem is the deregulation of the profession of tourist guide. The proposal to remove compulsory qualifications in the guide work is going in the wrong direction. Moreover, deregulation in activities has many negative consequences, including poorer quality of water services, resulting in more work on black, grey economy and young people not interested in education. The proposal for a new law deletes all articles in the current law relating to the tourist guide. The activities of tourist guides are protected by so-called POs in many countries of the European Union, including in all neighbours of Slovenia, from Hungary through Croatia to Italy. Complete deregulation was carried out only in Poland, where they are already considering reregulation. Anyone who has travelled through Asia, for example, well knows what the practices of tourism management are in a situation of full free market and deregulation. The motive for these changes is to reduce costs for agencies. This will, of course, affect workers and workers. Travel guides are more or less espaes in a very chaotic position, they are also faced with dumping, which not only congests their price, but also reduces the quality of the offer. All of this was also pointed out in the Association of Tourist Guides, but under this guidance MGRT was expected to not listen. The analysis of the law, which was roasted for 10 or 15 years, should take into account additional information. The two top officials at the Ministry are representatives of tourism managers' elites, along with Minister Počvalska, also Secretary of State Eva Stravs Podlogar. The Director of the Tourist Board of Slovenia, however, became an uncontested minister with plagiarism instead of a master's degree, former member of the ethical-moral SMC Klaudija Markež with a later changed surname Stalcer, and today known as Klaudia Perger. Interesting, isn't it? This designation clearly points to the overlap of economic and political elites in this country. The clientlist parking of SMC personnel also points to the government's actual attitude towards tourism. Not tourism, which would be sustainable from an environmental point of view, not tourism, which would provide quality jobs, but tourism, where those at the trough collect cream to the detriment of everyone else! In Levica, for all the reasons mentioned above, we will not support the law. However, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology can be peacefully renamed the Ministry of Deregulation. Funeral activity, trade professions, Magna, after tourism comes the investment law, and everywhere is the same recipe: let capital dance as it wants, and the drink will be paid by all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u90	Dear President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Tourism is certainly the most promising sector with one high development potential not only in Slovenia but worldwide. Let me say that in Slovenia, the economic sector of tourism generates as much as 13% of the total social product and employs 45,000 people in this sector. That's an extremely large number. However, I will have to point out immediately that in recent times, at least on certain destinations, there have been major problems because tourist workers are extremely poorly paid for their work and are leaving this sector. One to the other, the other to the economy, leaving the country. Certain business systems are forced to look for a cadre, one they can only get for such a miserable payment. This certainly is not a good way to develop this strategically important sector and there will be much more to be done in the future besides what this law brings, so that we can really expect the development of this sector in the sense and meaning that we want it to be. I would also like to point out, as has already been said here, that tourism has an extremely large multiplier effect on the rest of the economic sectors. I'm sure that's true. It is also very strongly linked to agriculture, for example, by producing healthy food in rural areas. This is also a very great potential that can give a unique Slovenian tourist offer, in addition to those of the most famous destinations, such as Primorske, Bled, Kranjska Gora and so on. There are also other destinations, such as in Pomurje thermal tourism, hunting tourism, rural tourism and so on, which can contribute significantly to rural development, to raising the backlog of Slovenia to bring development closer to others, much more developed areas of Slovenia. Tourism as a sector is also highly dependent on ecology. Allow me to remind you of the problems we had in certain areas last year, including tourist destinations, such as in Lendava, when tourists left, and early, because the situation was unsustainable. I therefore point out that tourism is an extremely broad concept, and there are extremely many factors on which it is dependent that it can be properly developed. The municipalities, the local communities, bear a very heavy burden on the development of tourism. They must take care of appropriate infrastructure because there is no tourism without it. It was now their duty to collect a tourist tax, which is also fine, but let us not forget that in a rural area where accommodations on various smaller destinations are separated from the centres, in rural tourist facilities, raising tourist fees is not such a negligible thing. As we have heard, certain projections point to a multiple increase in the tourist tax, of course because 25% of this tourist tax will have to be carried out in the form of a promotional fee by the national Slovenian tourist organization for the promotion and marketing of Slovenian tourism, the product. Let me remind you that I hope that further procedures will take into account all the important comments made in relation to this law, that the law will also contribute to the fact that this national tourism organisation will not forget those destinations that are away from the centres. Unfortunately, I have to go back to the countryside again. I hope that the additional funds of €4.7 million will indeed be targeted, as I said before, and will be usefully spent on the entire tourism sector in Slovenia. I would also like to point out that we are also giving this law an additional task to the congregations. Are they all qualified for this? I am not entirely sure that because we need to be aware, the bureaucracy brought by this law in this area will also have to be managed by the administrations of small local communities. Therefore, I propose that it be considered that this obligation is carried out by an institution which is qualified to do so, having infrastructure for it, here I am referring to the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. They can inadvertently make more professional arrangements for the collection, recovery and subsequent distribution of these funds. We will not oppose this bill in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, but we hope that all the proposals that could improve the law will be taken into account in further procedures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar and Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go, Mr. Badass.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello, Government representatives, colleagues and fellow Members! I am pleased that this proposal for a law on the promotion of the development of tourism in the National Assembly has finally arrived, of course this is the first reading, the right start. Why am I particularly happy? As tourism is growing strongly in the world, I am even more pleased that this development, the trend in the world, is followed by Slovenia. In Slovenia, incredibly in recent years, the issue has grown, not only has the number of tourists increased, the number of overnight stays increased, and this is very large. If we are looking at the proportion of tourism in Slovenia in the whole budget, 12.8%. Now someone will imagine, tourism is tourism, it brings in one way or another, but nothing should be invested in it – tourism, of course, has to be invested and it is also worth investing in. Those who invest in this will surely gain much more in the coming years. Today there are also some comments about the tourist tax, which brings some things and is also intended to promote tourism, especially in the area of municipalities, and that one part of this tax is returned to the areas where these funds have been raised. I am pleased that this law is in principle supported by the biggest opposition party, the SDS, of course, they have certain concerns, but mostly they support it. I am also pleased that Article 27, which defines professional excursions, has been incorporated into this law. We have often talked on boards about the problems of professional excursions in schools, that in one way or another – even inspections were coming. This area has not been resolved and I am glad that this has been introduced into this law. I won't go into the details, there'll probably be some more concerns, some more amendments, but I think it's a very important area of education. Which means that what we have already discussed on committees has not been forgotten in the preparation of this law – because it is often criticized that certain things are not being taken into account. This seems important to me because I come from school myself. As we talk about tourism, it is right that we are increasingly talking about rural tourism. That's why I like it because I come from the countryside alone. In Koroška, I see great possibilities here, even now that the fast road is being built. I see the red thread right in the development of tourism in Kopas. I am very pleased that they are not just focusing on the development of winter tourism, because we ourselves know that long-term winter tourism is questionable due to climate conditions and changes, but that much more is invested in summer tourism, which is crucial because rural areas are important here. I see that other offers and other beneficiaries that will be included in this tourist area can also be made available to farms so that they can develop and that they can also be cashed in some other way. It's been a wish for a while. In Koroška, of course, we have something else, we have many beautiful cycling routes, we have King Matjaž under Peco, here are various events during the summer, even in winter, now it will be soon, so I see here that then these things could be involved in some common, broader matter. As I say, one example of this development in Koroška is, in all parts of Slovenia, we have the sea, we have other things, today there was talk about Lipica, we have Postojna Cave, we have Bled. In short, in Slovenia there are different areas and very interesting for foreigners, so foreigners are increasingly interested in this area. Of course, there will be a lot more to be done in this area, because the concept of tourism is very broad and we often forget that if we want to develop tourism, we are human. I've been learning lately that people should be in all areas because a lot of things don't get started because of people. Today there was also talk about how many employees in tourism are, 45 thousand of them, and that of these there are 30,000 of them in the restaurant. There was also a speech by some of the opposition that the guests were very poorly paid. I believe that we are still somehow tourism, as I say, is evolving, and yet I hope that things will be so arranged in this area that those working in this area will be paid more solidly. [[…]] I mean the workers themselves. I know things are changing. It's not going that fast. If we have guests, if we have an offer and if there are quantities, then there will be money and I think and I hope that this money will be distributed properly, so that it will also reach those who actually create and work in the field working with people who work with tourists to get paid for their work. Actually, I don't see any of those reasons here. Many times the problem is that the visit is bad. And if the visit increases, if the amount required for an activity increases, of course more can also be shared for workers. Not only do I think of those leaders who are often in the mill, that they are guilty of everything, even in a positive sense they are sometimes guilty, but I think that the matter will go in this direction, not only in Slovenia, but also in the world, that we will not take the workers as slaves, as is often said, but that we will reward the workers, because if the workers are satisfied, then they will do better and we will all have more. So far, so much. But I must say that I will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go, Mrs. Marinka Lefty.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Well, hello to all of you who are present at this session! I support the law in part, and in part I am very critical of it. I certainly think the purpose and objectives of the law are good and therefore I support them, and some solutions are good. First of all, I will highlight these solutions, which I think are good, namely the definition of what a tourist arrangement is. This is very good for me because, because of this definition of their arrangements, various excursions will make it easier to organise schools, societies, including the pensioners' society, which are very eager to take part in various trips, as well as group flights, which are not in fact some tourist arrangements. This solution seems to me to be the right thing to do. I also think it is a good solution to deregulation of professions, that the tourist guide remains a regulated profession, because I think it is right that it is regulated to require a certain knowledge, a certain education, a certain condition that he can show tourists everything that is important in the place where they travel. Thus, tourists will also have more than this journey than if they have a tourist guide, which is very little known for the history of tourist attractions and so on. In short, that's good. It is also good to deregulation of the profession of tourist companion. I welcome this because then these escorts can also have those who organize excursions, schools, societies and so on. I am a great opposer or opposed to the increase in the tourist tax and the tourist tax in general. We see that more money is needed to develop tourism and promote it, and I agree with that. I do not agree, however, that more money is obtained only at the expense of the users of tourism, i.e. tourists, that even those who have the direct benefit of this larger tourist influx, such as camps or hotels or restaurants and other economic facilities, are no longer contributing to this, so that they can be transferred only to consumers, to tourists. It seems to me that this high tourist tax, which will have to be paid, for example, by someone who will go to a hotel or who will go to a camp, as a colleague from the Left Group has calculated before me, will have to pay 8 euros or even more for a four-member family per day – I think even 10 euros, if it is 2 and a half euros per day, is 10 euros per day, and if the family is in the camp for 10 days, it is already 100 euros. This is a key factor in one family budget. That is why I think that there is a need to look for reserves here so that, instead of increasing the tourist tax, the funds are also obtained from tourist companies to partly pay for it. More or less, I also think of the flat-rate fee to be paid by owners of real estate and vessels. It seems very unfair to me because it mainly burdens those with less tourist capacity and smaller vessels. The flat-rate tourist fee is thus to be paid by square and not by the number of registered guests or by the number of beds declared by the owner of this facility. It should go like this: that whoever has up to 30 square metres will pay for two users, that is, 100 euros if 50 euros per one, and then up to 50 square meters three, between 50 and 70 per four and 70 per five. So those who have more than 70 square metres – and we know that there are also many who have luxury apartments, including luxury villas – will pay 250 euros for five users, and those who have 50 to 70 square meters for example, one normal apartment will pay 200 euros. Where's justice now? Again, I think that this law protects more the lower layers than those who have more money, more resources and therefore more money. The same is true for vessels in our Slovenian marinas, but I think even on the utility ties – this is not clear from the law, please explain. In short, those who have a vessel of up to 10 metres will pay 100 euros and those who have more than 10 metres will pay 150 euros. So those citizens will have to, I suppose – because I am walking through these marinas because I am interested in this and I am very much moving along the Slovenian coast and I see that these smaller boats there are not even enough beds up to 10 meters, but this owner will have to, I suppose – that mostly Slovenians who have smaller boats are going to pay 100 euros, those over 10 meters, those who see boats in our marinas and those who have really long boats, about 20 meters long, 25 meters, the right luxury boats, will pay 150 euros, and only 50 euros more than that poor guy, who has, say, one vessel, 7 meters long. I certainly don't think that's right. I think that in this area we should amend the law further, so that we do not go in this direction. In addition, I am skeptical of whether tourist municipalities that collect tourist fees really invest only in the development of tourism and in tourism infrastructure. I do not agree with what my colleague Tonin said, but it is without fear that the congregations will invest in this. Indeed, as I have already said, I walk around these tourist destinations a lot, and I think some are really exemplary to invest as much as possible, and many are not. I think there should be more control here by the Ministry if these fees are actually deliberately used. Next, I would – but now I will not speak out here in public, but I can tell the ministry if we ever have the opportunity to talk, because I also know about a tourist municipality that is not investing anything in tourist infrastructure. The bill will be supported by me, but not more if these essential comments are not taken into account at the expense of the tourist tax. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mrs Susana Lep Šimenka and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mr. Urosh Prikl. If you like, Mr. Uroš Prikl, otherwise not. Can we skip it or what?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u96	Excuse me, Vice President. We are a little involved in an interview that is, of course, linked to the topic of today's law, which aims to promote tourism. I have already said in the position of the Group of Members, but I do not want to repeat here that we are conditionally in favour of this law. Some ambiguities related mainly to school trips, excursions, if you like, and trips from different societies, according to the assurances of this competent ministry here, I think this is right. In some cases, I may not agree with my colleague Levicar when she talked about poor people with boats. Of course, it was its purpose — and we spoke a little louder than it was in the National Assembly — about fishermen who are affected by this and have smaller vessels, so that it will not be misunderstood here that we are defending that group of people in Desus with no idea what kind of vessels we are trying to favour through this or another law. On the contrary. At the end of the day, we run to that point when we're talking about raising the tourist tax. Any increase in any contribution, any duty, of course, is negative. You cannot expect us here to be thrilled that the tourist tax is rising, but nowhere has it ensured that this increase in the tourist tax will be earmarked for the right purposes. I agree with all those positions that say that in some way all stakeholders in the tourism policy, the tourism strategy should be burdened equally, if you want, and that, on the one hand, it will not all be passed on to the final consumer, and on the other hand, the pockets of some other entities that live in a fantastic way from tourism will be filled. I only remind you of this matter, then it was a different approach to cutting the amount of contributions, 1996 by employers. This was intended to cut half of their contributions to new jobs, to invest in new technological processes, processes and so on, but not to be achieved. Here's the other thing. This is about increasing the tourist tax and, of course, I would like to see that if we already have to face this rise, that it actually goes for the right purpose. We are constantly jamming, but I come from this end of Slovenia, which is always in an inferior position, because you know, others are always the hardest to be, but if this is Maribor, the situation is especially ploy when we are always hit by such and different problems. Also at this end of Slovenia we are engaged in tourism, we have tourism. By the way, Pohorje is the destination where the World Cup competitions are being conducted and where the ski resort can be reached by bus transport. So you're going in the armory, very domestically, on the six, and you're coming to the ski resort. There's no such thing as anywhere, but I believe you like to brag about the bloodthirsty in these parts. Okay, I won't be too long and I won't be gone. I would like this money, if we have to raise it – and obviously it is necessary to develop the infrastructure and anything else – to actually devote every increase in the tourist tax for the right purposes. And then we can say we're not going to cry and cry that there's no infrastructure, that there's no promotion. Let the money be made for this purpose and considered honestly, twice each coin is turned around before it is spent. With all that is said, our support can also be expected, but I am joining all those who have called on in certain cases, or we are missing any additional addition by this competent ministry. Make it enough for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Finally, I will say, we have received a proposal for a law to promote the development of tourism, which was quite discussed last year. We have it on the table, but I must say that I am also critical of this law, and I must say that I am joining a colleague in the work of a tourist tax, but on this in the following. I have said a lot in the position of the Group of Members, and I would like to add something now. Tourism is recognised in Slovenia, in the world as a driver of economic development. It has both positive and negative effects. We have faced negative effects in the past year when many people, at least I thought it was incomprehensible that people were disgusted that there were so many tourists in the environment when in fact its infrastructure capacity exceeded. I think we must look forward to this, but it is true that infrastructure must be adapted. Of course, on the other hand, we have positive effects, which appear both in social and social impacts. The number of employees is increasing, and I would like to point out here that those who work in tourism must be adequately paid for work, should not be exploited, should work for more than 200 hours a month without interruption after six days. So we will have to do a lot more in the field of labour law. We are also kind of a unique country, in fact, such a tourist potential as we have here, some countries do not. At a distance of 250 kilometers, we can be in the Alps, at sea, in the Pannonian lowlands, and we can take a look at Crassus. This is a potential that needs to be exploited and promoted. Why am I talking about promoting? I must say that although the Slovenian Tourism Organisation promotes, it issues catalogues, but catalogues are not enough. You need to make a story out of these catalogues. I'll describe the case essentially on the planes. We have Adria's airline, or it's privately owned now, but still. There could be a promotional film on the aircraft, whose sights in Slovenia are good to see and believe me that tourism would also be much more developed. Also on various information boards, which are in Slovenia, because we are in the age of information technology, we could promote Slovenian natural beauty. If we make a comparison somehow between the development of tourism in Ljubljana and the development of tourism in Maribor, I must say that when I came to Ljubljana, there is a completely different picture here than in Maribor. In fact, there are such guest houses, it invests in tourism, there is simply another story here than in Maribor. In Maribor, in fact, in this area, the center of Maribor sleeps. Trade centers live by what they have, but I don't think that's the potential. Tourists are becoming increasingly difficult, so to speak, we are becoming more demanding and we are no longer just satisfied with food, drink or accommodation. We are also interested in new, innovative, different services, including recreational leisure. That's why we have Pohorje on this target. Pohorje is one of the very good recreational opportunities for the development of tourism. But I must say that only Pohorje is very different, namely this Maribor part of it, I will say, horse or Rogle. Why? In fact, Unior is investing significantly more money in the development of tourism, so it should also be in the field of the Maribor Pohorje, but in fact this tourist tax has probably not been adequately allocated in recent years. If I touch this infamous tourist tax now. I also believe that this tourist tax, which is now described in the bill's proposal to be up to the highest level - the secretary of state will remind me that the local community will determine for itself – €2.5. But we are all aware that when the local community has this option, it is likely that it will choose the upper limit. It should be noted that this tourist tax today amounts to just over 1.25 euros, and this is a big leap. If you remember, in 2014, this tourist tax increased from 1.01 euros to 1.10 euros, and at that time it was a big cow in all of Slovenia, what we are going to do. I think we need to be very careful about this tourist taxi, because we need to be aware that tourists are not only coming from outside, but we are also tourists in the Republic of Slovenia. We go to the sea, we go to the mountains, and we simply have to look at it for us, because, as the colleague mentioned earlier, for one family of four, 80 to 100 Euros of tourist tax means a great burden on the budget. On the other hand, we have this promotional fee, which will be intended for the operation of the Slovenian Tourist Organisation, which will amount to 25% of the tourist tax to be fixed by the municipality, is such a greater burden. Together, if we take 2.50 plus 25%, at worst I say, it's 3 euros 125, which I think is very high. I think we need to look for other sources. Although I've been looking a little bit at comparisons where they have such a high tourist tax. Such a high tourist tax is only to be found in Venice. But we have to look at people coming, actually leaving some euro with some other offer, but they don't actually spend that much on this tourist tax, and then they're going to eat some pizza or some of our goodness less. That's certainly not good. At this point, I would like to remind you that we already have a systemic source of promotion and concessionary funding. That's what you call gambling. In 2017, some €18 million was to be collected after unverified data. These funds are supposed to be spent on the development of tourism and not on the various purposes financed in the budget. However, this concession fee is divided into 2,2 % for FIHO, 2,2 for sport financing and the other 50 % for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and 50% for local communities. Local communities are likely to make a 50 % contribution to the promotion of tourism and the development of tourism, to the restoration of infrastructure. But what happens to the funds coming into the budget, and it just can't be seen because it's coming into the integral budget and I don't think it's good. I therefore believe that this tourist tax and this promotional fee should be considered in this direction, so that these concession funds are earmarked for a specific source. Let's think this way. The first step is this: I will support the law, but if the tourist tax is so high in the second reading, this law on my part will have no support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Dr Dragan Matić and Mrs Marija Bacič. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about an extremely important industry, although we must not understand industry here in some classical sense, but in a modern, modern way. We are talking about the tourism industry and it is increasingly important in the economic sector. We all talk many times in this hall about how Slovenia is a beautiful country, green, clean, and so on. First, the question, if this is true, and if this is true tomorrow, depending on our conduct, and secondly, whether we know it properly for a tourist, for a buyer of these beauties, it is also appropriate to sell these tourist attractions. That's the question. Today we are talking about promoting the development of tourism. It's a very important marriage. As has already been said, we will give him the green light in the first reading, but it is needed in the second reading of some adaptation, what improvements. Here I would like to point out once again one centralisation of our country, which also feels in tourism policy, if I may say so, or in the policy of promoting tourism. Who and how should we sell the beauty of Prekmur? I'm sure many of you will be able to talk about beauty and beauty sales in the region from which it comes, say Haloze. Look, there's no possibility of investment there. It's not because there's no money. Or rather, we have made the municipalities financially poor, and the congregations are not called upon to build tourist facilities. There must be private capital for that. However, the environment must be such that, as stated in the law, it will promote the development of tourism. After many years in Prekmurje we received one very important object. This is a sightseeing tower in the Lendava Mountains. I suggest we pay him a visit sometime, maybe some field meeting. But it's one swallow that doesn't make it spring. The key is this reorganisation, where more power would be gained, a greater impact on decision-making and the allocation of funds from local tourism organisations. Slovenian tourism organization works well, it has fantastic prospective materials, but that's not enough. Prospects aren't for sale today. If I know anything about tourism, it's probably very small. That's what I'm saying, and that's what I'm behind. You sell stories, you sell experiences. Anyone who comes to a tourist destination then tells his friends what he has experienced there and there in Slovenia. So they sell experiences, they sell stories. I think we could be on some European average here. When I went to prepare for this law and for this debate, I also looked at the European files on what they say about the development or promotion of tourism. European dossiers, too, are increasingly important for the development of tourism. And tourism, as an economic activity, creates growth and jobs in the European Union and also in Slovenia, at the same time contributes to development and strengthens economic and social cohesion. In particular in rural areas, I underline, in particular in rural areas, hilly and coastal areas, islands, remote and outermost regions and convergence regions. The European tourism industry generates more than 5% of the European Union's gross social product. This share is steadily increasing, and it is increasing significantly every year. It is interesting that the European Union is still the world's first tourist destination. It is visited every year by over 400 million international tourists, which is more than 40% of all world tourist visits. But this moment for Slovenia these data may not be relevant, they may only be important in encouraging us to make more effective policies here in the National Assembly to promote tourism. But tourism is not only the Ministry of the Economy or the Ministry of the Interior, which is covered by this ministry. There's a lot more. Even yesterday, when I asked Dr. Peter Gasperšić a question about electricity mobility, about e-mobility, this is also linked to tourism. If we want to remain a clean destination, a clean country, a clean country, then we must also respect consistently what we have committed to in the strategy adopted last year by the Government in the field of transport policy. And this is that in 2030, this is the day after tomorrow, you will no longer be allowed to run the first registration of a car that has an internal combustion engine. That's good. The question is, but we do not yet have what action plan to achieve these goals. We don't have those plans yet. We don't have that action yet. We are missing this in Slovenia. We don't have action. We only see the action when it's in hypermarket Action. And then we all fly there. Instead of making an action plan on how to really implement this e-mobility strategy and achieve objectives that are ambitious. But if the government hasn't united today on the action plan, then when will it be? Junia? It's gonna be hard. Here I have a problem, because we just have some ideas, but when we have to do this, then we just don't do it. Now someone's gonna say, what are you talking about e-mobility now, when we're talking about tourism? Yes, tourism is much more. These are not just some accommodations or if you want bed facilities and pools etc. It's a way of life, it's a lot more. I conclude my debate with a call and with the Government's reflection that, while we are talking about promoting tourism in our country, it has all the regions in mind. Maybe those peripherals so much more. If I understand a modern tourist correctly, you will not bring him to marble hotels, facilities, etc. Everyone wants to be in nature. I'm not doing commercials for some particular kind of tourism right now, but everybody wants nature, everybody wants green, everybody wants a bike, not a gas engine. And in this sense, if, in the second reading of this law, this, development in all regions, will radiate, then I will finally give my support to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr Dragan Matić has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Marija Bačič. Here you go, Mr. Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. When I talk about this marriage today, I am personally influenced by mixed feelings. On the one hand, it is true that it brings important changes, and on the other hand, I am concerned or in some way sad because obviously we do not hear ourselves in the National Assembly when we talk to the Government, at least not always. I am talking about cultural tourism, which is the fastest growing industry within the tourism segment. This is recognised by all modern European countries. Although a cultural tourist is demanding, his expectations are high. Usually, cultural events, cultural festivals and, most importantly, cultural heritage are key to its choice of destination. We were also aware of this at the Committee on Culture and the Committee on the Economy, where we convened a double committee meeting last May. There we agreed to include a chapter on cultural tourism in the emerging strategy for the sustainable growth of Slovenian tourism for the period 2017-2021. We have also proposed to the Government the establishment of an inter-ministerial working group on cultural tourism at the level of the country and municipalities, which should report each year to both committees on the situation in this area. Unfortunately, nothing has been done from both of these conclusions. We are now January 2018. That no one will think we haven't done anything in between since May. In July 2017, I asked the President of the Government an oral question and once again highlighted the importance of cultural tourism as the fastest growing segment within the tourism sector. In his reply, the President said that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology would also include cultural tourism in the strategy for the sustainable growth of Slovenian tourism for the period 2017-2021, mainly thanks to the initiative of both committees. He also promised to set up an Interdepartmental Working Group. Then we got into the hands of the strategy mentioned, but in it, with a search tool, not a single hit appears when we type cultural tourism. We do not have a strategy on almost 200 pages of long text. And as a matter of fact, there are no inter-ministerial groups. It is precisely the purpose of this Interdepartmental Group that the relevant resources, culture, economy and local communities together find out where those grey foxes are that prevent even greater development and expansion of cultural tourism. What happens now if we take a little look at this proposal of this law? This proposal provides for a promotion fee as a 25 % tourist tax premium, which, according to some calculations, will bring 4.7 million additional funds to promote Slovenian tourism in international markets. If we were talking about cultural tourism that brings a modern culturally educated demanding person to Slovenia, then I mentioned earlier what brings him. Cultural events, cultural festivals and restored and presented cultural heritage. And now I'm wondering what we're going to promote with this 4.7 million. If we go to the Agency's website or to others in charge of promoting tourism, we see destinations that have been more or less the same for decades. We have Bled, we have Piran, we have Ljubljana, we have Lipica, which, thank God, has been experiencing a new resurrection for the past 1.5 years, and then it stops slowly. Destinations that are equally identifiable and are a symbol of Slovenia and it is commendable that, obviously, it is meant that this money for promotion will further encourage tourists to come exactly to these destinations. But we already have a problem on these destinations. In Ljubljana, citizens complain that the visit of tourists in the centre of Ljubljana is too large to affect their quality of life. The same is true of other important tourist centers I mentioned, Bled, Piran and elsewhere. Instead of focusing on investing more in cultural tourism in order to create new potential centres for tourism, in order to restore cultural heritage, with which we have great difficulty in spending more money on cultural programmes, we see that the Ministry of Culture has recently had a great deal of difficulty in financing programmes, which can then result in some cultural events or festivals, no, for this purpose nothing is devoted. We have a strictly separate policy by sector, the economy is concerned about promotion, and culture will remain a task to finance cultural production or cultural events of NGOs and to restore cultural heritage. For both of us, culture, of course, lacks money. When we have the absurdity that Ljubljana is overcrowded and that the Ljubljanaians are already complaining, near Ljubljana, for example, the Turjak Castle, which is perhaps 20 minutes away, and then when we approach the Turjak Castle, where we are directed by the tourist boards, we can only get one ticket at the entrance, which reminds us of the real socialist times, which informs us that the castle is closed. It is closed because it is not restored because the basic infrastructure around the castle is not regulated and it is therefore impossible to manage and offer it. The second largest castle in Slovenia, 20 minutes away from Ljubljana, the unique cultural heritage, the immense potential is for cultural tourism, the result of nothing or less, minus, falls. But when we appealed to the Ministry of the Economy that at least part of these 4.7 million, which are intended to promote already overcrowded tourist destinations, would be dedicated to rebuilding cultural monuments in order to gradually restore, in a few years, at least with the work of these funds, one by one, these cultural monuments and allow for new tourist destinations, the answer was negative. As is the result of the conclusions of the double committee, so are these commitments that have been made today by the President of the Government, unfortunately not realized, I wonder when they would be, if they would be. But we're still waiting for this and we don't have the right answers. As it is said, this bill, with the exception of some editorial corrections, for example, adds an additional point between the activities and services provided at the level of the tourist area in the public interest: the protection of immovable local and national monuments. Apart from such details, there are no contributions to strengthen the fastest growing industry within tourism, which is cultural tourism. We are not in a position to move forward in this area. Clearly, these inter-ministerial borders are still too sharp, so it is obvious that these conclusions of the National Assembly Committees run into deaf ears, as if this coordination between these government departments is not possible at this level to be satisfied. In this context, my concerns regarding this law remain open, and I expect that this will change until the second reading, or I do not think that I will be able to support this law in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenka and Mrs Marija Bacič. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Certainly the most important conclusion is that tourism cannot be promoted by increasing taxes. And this law speaks primarily of this – to increase taxes and then to centrally direct these duties to the new agency. This is certainly not the contribution to the development of tourism that we want to actually come to every village, every village in Slovenia. However, if I remain only at higher taxes, this is certainly an unacceptable solution. Look, you pay taxes on every service, or you order coffee, or you just eat something, or you order another service, and you pay an extra tax everywhere. And why tax each guest extra? Finally, let us ask ourselves how many Slovenian families can approach the Postojna Cave. What is the cost of visiting Postojna Cave for the Slovenian family? There are very few who can see the Postojna Cave, our greatest sight, in fact, one of the greatest sights. Four hundred thousand people are already on the verge of poverty, and we are talking about raising additional benefits for people who might take that little bit of free time they have to go and see something in Slovenia. Not out, in Slovenia. On the other hand, huge sums flow into our tax havens. But there's no hearing to change anything. I don't know how many times I've talked about the fact that at least 35% of the tax rate should be taxed in tax havens. And we now have the money for all the infrastructure we need to make our tourist offer even more exemplary. If I add to this the introduction of tax boxes, because practically in every mountain cottage, they are in very accessible areas, they must have cash registers. You can't practically see this anywhere else, where they're just as intensely involved in tourism. So Austria is closest. And why do we not, however, think about introducing flat-rate taxes as a result of the development of tourism? You pay a certain service at a certain level and then you organize yourself to try to get as many guests as possible to pay that tax as quickly as possible, it remains then for development, even for promotion, even for construction, modernisation and so on. In terms of updates, we have in the procedure a tax on the mass valuation of property which is to be taxed at market value. Why would someone invest in their own home, in their own property, in their own farm, because then they will pay a higher tax because the value of this property will be higher? We have completely illogical approaches in this government. And if you look at the proposal for deregulation of professions, it means that even in the field of tourism, we'll have a cheap workforce, where we can only serve, nod, bow, and go home unhappy, because you don't have anywhere to go with that money. I'd like to add the following. Our foreign policy, too. We listen to the foreign minister: “No, the Schengen borders will not be allowed to move from our opinion.” Yeah, where do we have the most problems right now? The entire Kolpa is fenced with a wire, a Schengen border, and we wouldn't move it because someone thinks it's a good thing you're threatening a neighbor. It would be very wise to awaken and get the Schengen border out of our southern border as soon as possible and to revive the tourism programme that was adopted at the time of Slovenia's entry into the EU. It is a so-called small-border agreement, as well as the possibility of creating a tourist area already adopted after Kolpa do Gorjanci. There everyone participates – both on the Croatian side and on the Slovenian side, everyone exchanges the offer, and that is what we really need if we want to bring more people and enable people to survive. And look at the negotiations with Hungary. We have a Hungarian delegation in Slovenia. No one knows, whether in Parliament or in Slovenia, everything is being negotiated in secret. What if Hungary were to build and apparently gain access to the sea, and would be interested in as much transhipment as possible? She won't be interested in the development of tourism on the coast. Has anyone asked the people on the Coast whether they agree? There's no consensus for that! We work like the Babylonians. Literally, well. And if we are talking about the development of tourism, a secret conversation with Hungary is a big question for the development of tourism on the Coast. If freight traffic prevails, then these coastal municipalities can say goodbye to tourism [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bacič and Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go, Mrs. Susanna Beautiful Chimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I have in my hands the Strategy for the Sustainable Growth of Slovenian Tourism 2017-2021. And you'll say that's not the point of today's agenda, but I think it's still connected to it. I will read just one sentence, what our tourism vision is supposed to be: “Slovenia will become a green, active and healthy destination for five-star experiences.” Nice words. I'd say I agree with them. But – is it really real that we will become this in Slovenia? If we say, okay, five-star experiences, and then we take on the other side the law that is before us today, namely the law on promoting tourism development, and we see here a raise in tourist fees and an additional promotional fee, then we can say, “Yes, certainly, because these tourists will only go to five-star hotels that are really looking for a top destination where they really want to spend, it does not pose a problem for them.” But I think that we are not yet at such a high level in Slovenia that we can say that this will be our exclusive direction in the coming years. I, and even the predecessors before me, cannot support some extra taxation. In the past, during the time of the government of Mira Cerar, there was much too much. A tourist tax of up to 2.5 euros is likely to mean as much as 2.5 euros on average. Let us include another 25% of the so-called promotion fee and come to 3.12 euros. When we recalculate what this means for a Slovenian family, we see that, I don't know, the 4-member family, if we say that this is the average family, will pay more than 12 euros a day just for a tourist tax. If we look at it for 10 days, we'll come up with more than 120 euros. That's not a small amount. Not to be afraid, this money would probably have been spent differently by these people, and the country would have gotten it again through other taxes on the budget. But really let's think about this height because these are unacceptable numbers. Now for a few words about tourism itself. It seems very important to me that we have this marriage. Many good, truly good solutions are in it, and I personally support them. Most controversial, as I say, but I really think it's an extra promotional fee and the very height of the tourist tax. Tourism is a story, that's what Ambassador Horvat said. True, tourism is true stories. And the stories are the ones that sell. In order to have stories and to have these stories constantly, we must invest continuously in tourism. Tourism is really a sector that needs to be changed more than any other. We're all aware of that. We have, if we look at Slovenia as one destination, an extraordinary destination. There aren't many in the world. And that, I believe, is what we're all aware of here. In one day we can ski and bathe, we can go to beautiful caves, we can go, I don't know, to the Halo hills, we can hike, we can find peace, we can find fun, we can be more adventurous, and we have a lot of opportunities for different adrenaline sports. We do have an extraordinary potential, few countries have one. The numbers are good, but we still have significantly more options. And, of course, we have to take advantage of that. We need more investment in infrastructure, we need investment in information infrastructure, because at least the whole of Slovenia is covered by the Internet, and finally the basis for Slovenian tourism. Even these tourists who are looking for five-star experiences, yes, they're publishing what's happening to them. And it's very embarrassing that they don't have the basic ability to access the Internet. The Haloza case is well - known, and many of them have been discussed in the National Assembly. We'll finally get this missing section of Drazenci-Gruškovje highway, but, I don't know, last night I was in Podlohnik, in the center of Podlohnik, and since we have an operator here, I didn't have a signal. Not to say that when we climb up these halo hills a little bit, how many times is the actual signal problem? These are the basics that we must first resolve in the country so that we can go after more highly developed tourism. However, we need additional education for people working in tourism. Especially if we want to go through these five-star experiences. But something about this is also in the strategy itself, and I also welcome this. However, tourism, as it is said, is extremely important not least for our gross domestic product. He's giving us 8% in exports, which is a big number. He's creating a lot of jobs. Of course, we need to look directly, this is more than 100,000 jobs. We still have a lot of potential and opportunities to move forward here, so it is right to find some real ways. But, as it's said, introducing a promotion fee is really unnecessary. We have many options. Last but not least, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia has pointed out that we already have the possibility of drawing on funds for promotion – and this is from the Act on Gambling. I believe that's enough basics. If there may be a lack of marriage, there is no problem that this will not be handled properly in the future. The strategy also points out that we have about 22 million transit tourists in Slovenia and that this is also some potential we do not know how to take advantage of. I agree. Most of these tourists will probably not go to just a five-star destination, because they are mostly from countries that are in very good development and we have a very good chance of keeping them in Slovenia, because, after all, Slovenia is a destination that suits them perfectly according to what they want. But why don't they stop by? Many also because they do not know enough about Slovenia because we are under-promoting in individual markets. I will only point out the case of Poland. A huge market, in our immediate vicinity, over the summer, I live near the highway and the border crossing of Gruškovje, and I know how many cars, how many tourists cross Slovenia, do not stop at all. We asked Poland where the reasons were. And they said he almost couldn't spot us. There are promotions, there are initiatives, but the event once a year is too small twice a year. Simply, if we were able to present Slovenia in these markets, we could get a huge amount of money for small money. And these tourists will definitely stay with us. They'll stay maybe one day, two days, they'll say it, I don't know how many more. This is the best promotion that can actually be used in Slovenia. The second thing I very much welcome is through the film industry. More and more films are being made in Slovenia because it is absolutely suitable for this. If a film or series in a country is very much viewed, of course, it also helps tourists from that country come to see the beauty of the country they have seen on television screens. The case of South Korea, the case of India, these are very positive stories, of course I welcome. We might also expect more of these initiatives here. Sometimes I ask myself, Members, we are still traveling. We have never been asked by the WTO whether we need any promotional material to carry it with us and distribute it to, I don't know, other Members, other representatives. Why isn't that? We're representatives of Slovenia. We always say with pride where we come from, we proudly say what beauty we have. It doesn't cost much, except sometimes someone has to equip us with this. We asked ourselves about it, and we were looking for some brochures so we could take them with us. It's a possibility of promotion that we're not actually taking advantage of. This is also considered by representatives from the Ministry of the Economy. As it is said, more or less only one destination is promoted. If we want new stories, we probably also need new destinations and their promotions. But most of the time, people in these areas aren't prepared for big stories. That's why people need to be linked and made into individual stories. I believe we have enormous potential. Let's think about this promotion taxi and then do something about it. The possibilities of getting resources for promotion are enough others, just ask yourself what this means for those who may not be exactly settled in five-star hotels, and I believe that Slovenia will not be one of these destinations in the coming years. And what does that mean for these tourists? However, as we are looking at it, I don't know, giving 100 euros just for a cab is absolutely too much. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u107	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Tourism Promotion Act provides for a more even incentive for the development of tourism in our beautiful Slovenia. What does this mean by even encouragement? I made that point on purpose. Because, as we know, Slovenia does not end up in Trojans, so it is also necessary to give evenly in our own, I will say, the indeveloped Pomurje to give more encouragement. We have areas that are highly well-developed with all infrastructure. But we have areas, despite the strong tourist capacity, that we still somehow drip because we don't really know how to connect, we act like soloists, we protect our kindergarten, and the individual is having a hard time succeeding instead of being able to connect. If I say anything about Pomour. People want to present the products of the landscape, such as handicrafts, these are products made of straw, cheeks, willows and so on. So individuals appear at various fairs where they are more or less lonely and unsuccessful. Here I see the need for encouragement and advice on how to connect, how to get a more successful job. I do not think that local tourism organisations are doing their job here. We are aware that the quality of the market should be put on great effort. It is a major challenge to provide a destination product. But if we combine different performances and the number of tourist products and the identity of the place, there are many factors for a successful market performance. I believe that, in order to develop more tourism, the municipalities should have a development strategy for the whole area. We would also need a destination management that would take care of the link and promote experiences, as we have heard many times today, such as autochthonous culinary, excursion points, domestic crafts and characteristics of the province promoted. Guest expectations are increasing, for their money they want to have a very large amount and money is focused on value. It would present a historicly important project of the municipality of Murska Sobota tourist offer, Pavilion Expo, which will only live if the municipalities connect, if they develop a single strategy and draw up an action-oriented market plan. For this offer should also have a broader regional significance for the economy, sport and culture. Here for promotion will not be enough as we have already heard, parcels, promotional material, here must be a promoter man, so it must count a living word that can promote tourism in the region. And if I touch now, because I don't have much time, I don't have a tourist tax. Actually, you've said a lot. All I care about is why the 50% exemption is lifted for people staying in camps and in mountain stops. There is no way we can agree to this, and I think that the tourist tax in the camps should be lower. However, since the tourist tax will still be imposed by the congregations, I hope that our pomurs will come to this with a great deal of sense that this tourist tax will not be so high. Here I ask if we can think for a moment about why this 50% exemption for camps and outposts is lifted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u109	We have two more scheduled debaters. The first is given the word Mr Daniel Krivec, to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, again. I think that today's discussions in this first review of the law on the promotion of the development of tourism have been useful. It has been seen that a number of things are still incomplete and that they can be improved further. That is why I, too, have said in my position that at this first stage of the marriage we will not oppose. However, we will consider how we will decide next, especially on the individual segments that I have already mentioned in the introduction. This is a tourist tax, which was also a lot of talk in the debates, mainly because it is a nearly 250% increase compared to the current value of the tourist tax. Secondly, I wonder whether this tourist tax goes directly to the WTO or goes to an integral budget, we are talking about a taxi for promotion. So this part will need to be resolved further and some more appropriate solutions if we want this to be acceptable to all. Although I understand the proposaler, he probably tried to obtain significantly more resources both for local communities and for promotion, and somehow compared the matter with Austria, where I have already mentioned, it goes in a different direction where the tax imposed on all tourist operators in the region imposes significantly lower burdens of between 0,3 % and 3 % of some traffic. But we're talking about all subjects, from inn, craftsmen, gas stations, shops, etc. Given that these rates of contribution are relatively low, this is also an acceptable case for these tenderers. However, since it captures a large number of these payers, it is also later seized for the upgrading of tourism infrastructure and, in general, for the promotion, significantly greater and therefore, their steps are much faster and their infrastructure is significantly better. I have said before that I agree that, despite the fact that there is a good promotion at state level at the moment, it is certainly necessary to invest in this and we must never be satisfied with the current situation. The matter can be improved, but much has to be invested in expanding the peaks of the season, which are still too disturbing or too unfavourable for tourism providers throughout the year. If we look at all the statistics, there is still one very large tip in those two, three months, and in fact I think the objective of this strategy is to disperse this issue as much as possible throughout the year. Another point that I have previously pointed out and which will be important in the second reading is this deregulation, which was a lot of talk at all these meetings held at the Ministry of Economy with all stakeholders. While there are some concessions in the legislation itself, in my opinion it is not sufficient if we really want to accelerate this incentive and the drive of the tourism economy. Other measures, as I said, in the field of employment in particular, are probably also linked to some legislation which is a matter of the Ministry of Labour, but it would be right that any reference to this law or any direction in this direction may also be possible. The employment criteria in tourism are significantly more rigorous than in some other sectors. I don't think this is absolutely useful for faster development in the long run. One of the things that has been pointed out, however, is that if we want to develop those areas that are less tourism-oriented at the moment, we will also have to invest much more in some tourist infrastructure. Whether this is just a matter of the Ministry of the Economy, I do not know, but given that the Government has adopted a strategy, that tourism is a priority sector and that it has in fact the greatest potential for a short period of time in this country to make a substantial contribution to the state treasury, measures should also be targeted in these areas. If we just look at neighbouring countries, we know that they are significantly different in approach to individual segments and offer investors there who want to build some tourist infrastructure, significantly more favourable conditions. If we're just going to the winter sports centers, where I know things a little bit better, I know how these things are handled by neighbouring countries. So it's inappropriate to always talk about how we have things out of date and nothing's going on, and it's good abroad. Yeah, but they also need to look at their models. If anyone would just like to look at the study that was made in the National Assembly in 2012 or 2013, where he talks about promoting investment in winter and sports centres and how to finance it, it would be clear to him long ago and he would also know how other countries are doing these things. But it's just one segment. The same applies to summer infrastructure and everything else. If there is an integrated approach in this area, it is likely that it will be significantly easier to improve this offer in the future. As I said, the law itself has some good extensions and is in this stage to support. However, things will also need to be improved further and support decisions will also be made on this basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u111	Mr. Marko Ferruga, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u112	Thank you for your word! I might take a few steps back on this matter so that we can get along better. Perhaps for those who have a bad memory, I would like to remind them of one very important fact. At the beginning of his term of office, this government and this minister have done something that has been forgotten so far. The WTO has restored the sovereignty that has been very important to enable it to function and act as it should – in the direction of tourism development. That's one of the steps he's taking. It is said that this law on the promotion of the development of tourism is a continuation of this, and then it is somehow chained with one another and gives some appropriate results. As we all know, and as everywhere, they are the most critical point of all the matters that we talk about more or less here in Parliament, finance. They are also for the promotion of tourism, and it is likely that for some time there will be an eternal problem of finance for promotion and advertising. Why am I saying this? One part that goes from the state budget and directly from the ministry to the WTO is some part that you can possibly do something small with. One basic radius on which Slovenia is marketed is this radius of 500 kilometers. This includes true southern Germany, northern Italy, Austria and somehow Hungary. It's kind of an optimist, and we're kind of moving around here. In view of the developments that have been in the world, given how trends in the world are changing, thank God that we have an extremely safe and beautiful and all the other adjectives we can put together, our country, also because of all the things that have happened in the world, a large part of the tourists have shifted to us. So we have over 11 million nights, we have over 4 million and a half people coming in, which is a good sign that we're going in the right direction. But when we talk about this law, I agree with Daniel Krivec to a very similar extent here, we have a very similar view of how this promotion should be financed. As he has already mentioned, the intention of the Minister and the MGRT was that all, all legal persons, all especies, all companies operating in a tourist area, cooperate with some input, with some money in this promotion. When this spread, there was a lot of commotion in our house. From my practice, however, I know how local innkeepers, local providers of various other services, treated the hotelists. When it was necessary to give any money for the promotion, of course this money was not, if, yes, because you will go and you will finance it, the guests will go to sleep with you, and at the same time they demanded that the guests also go to their restaurants and that. Let's leave the offer, let's leave the services they had. That's the second thing about debate. The municipalities in the vast majority, at least as far as I know, have welcomed this proposal of the law because they see again some possibility of an increase in revenue. My only and great concern is, and this is also mentioned by other colleagues and colleagues, whether this greed or the greed of the municipalities to see one possible source of income here, by somehow losing it in the municipal budget, is not about these original purposes, which are today, either tourism or tourism infrastructure. She also made a very good point by her colleague Susana, that the law in gambling is defined, precisely defined, I think it is paragraphs 25, 27, that I am not now sure that the part of the concession given to the municipality where the casino is located, or in addition to the other municipalities that are there, is required to return to tourism. But Susanna, frankly, I'm telling you that very little of that money is going back to tourism, frankly. That's one of those things. I have to thank Mr. Tonin here. We also had quite a few debates on the Committee on the Economy in this direction, which we are now also dealing with in this law to promote the development of tourism, the segment that has been questionable and which has been largely marked for these school excursions and excursions of these societies. We fixed it. It's true, it's been a year since, here I'm mad at the MGRT, just like I'm mad at the previous marriage for the MGRT, because the timeline was a year ago, but okay, I understand that these bureaucratic mills are kind of spinning slowly. At the initiative of the NSI, we have introduced and I also agree with Matthew that we could have done this earlier, and we would now have this. That's exactly why I'm telling you honestly that they've been very cooperative as far as this is concerned. When we talk about the tourist taxi of individual municipalities, the range is up to 2.5 euros. So each congregation will have the opportunity to add height here. Once again, I hope that it will not be a matter of much greed to the congregations; it is now somewhere 1.25; it is one thing that they would like to increase their fees quickly; on the other hand, they will not return. Dilemma raise this tourist tax and then these Violet words, which are so very, I'll say, populist. Although she lives now in the system of capitalism, but still I want to have socialism somehow everywhere, but these concepts don't go together. I mean, even with a certain increase in the tourist tax, this tourist market is somehow being segmented. I want to, and my vision is that Slovenia will eventually become a boutique example of the country, that there will be no such mass tourism as already large tourist destinations. And we sort of segment people with that. Yes, I agree that if we look at certain segments of people who are socially at risk, I think that we could also legally define some exceptions, reliefs, this will be considered at the Ministry itself. But it's the direction I'm defending, and also the minister and the ministry, I think it's the right one. So this tourist tax is for promotion. We want to gain out of this circle 500 kilometers of new tourist markets. So, so far east, we know that we have an enormous rise in the arrivals of the Taiwanese, we want the Chinese, so also somehow the Maribor airport is heating up and we are looking for some variants here, Koreans. And these are these segments and markets that are far away, but costs are higher, there is a need for promotion, aggressive promotion. If that difference is to be made here, that we will have about 10, 11 million funds for promotion, I have already repeatedly appealed to the WTO, that now is also the right time to be somehow in America because of Melanie and in the northern countries, it is said in Canada and others that we are somehow marketed because it is a market that has some resources and likes to come to Europe. Europe also has something to show for it. We can cook iron now as long as it's hot. Melanie's here. Those who at least follow the tourist trends know in themselves that there are actually various novels with which both Hollywood and other film matters have made some unknown tourist attractions. The same thing can be done in Sevnica. This story needs to be developed and marketed in the Sevnica at this time, and very aggressively, in the American markets. Don't stop and wait. This is mainly intended for a tourist tax. As far as the concept and vision of my colleague Matić is concerned. I think he's completely different from this concept than I and the Ministry are. This fee is not for us to maintain some of our cultural heritage. I agree that there is a need to find a systematic source of funding, but I do not think that this promotional part of the fee is intended to do so. There's a lot of work to be done here, too, I think, at the Ministry of Culture. This ministry has fallen asleep, I think, even with this socialist thought that we have this here, and now what it is, is, and now what it will be. That is, if they are not also proactive and start to see how this could be leased for 99 years, how this could be marketed, how this could be done with less bureaucratic obstacles committed, of course with some rules to sign the contract and so on and so on, there would also be a case here. Thus, there are many ways to obtain funds, only here must the competent ministries be more labour-intensive, with a broader view of action. I agree that in the area of tourism, which is very broad, this has also been mentioned by colleagues, the level of services needs to be raised. I absolutely agree that there is also a need to raise the level of wages of employees in tourism. Something small has also been done now because collective agreements have been signed and there have been a number of issues. I'm also a little angry because somehow we all forgot about this Airbnb. There's a lot of revenue here that's kind of running away from us. If we just look at this basic platform Airbnb, how many rooms are broadcast in Ljubljana. There's over a thousand 500 or a thousand 800 of them. There's actually 500 reported, maybe 600 reported. I'm mad at all the ministries here. I know that the only ministry that was cooperative was the Ministry of Economy. There were seven meetings, interdepartmental coordinations and everything. The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. I hope that this will continue to be one of the more important and important tasks. And also on this account, municipalities will be able to receive a tourist tax and certain funds. The country will also receive one part of the tax and the other citizens of Slovenia, who will broadcast it, will also have something for themselves. If I'm going specifically to this law right now, there are some things that need to be said. It was mentioned that the tourist guide's profession remains regulated while the tourist companion is deregulation. I think we've gone one step towards the tourist guides here as well. I agree, and here it is worth considering the MGRT, how to somehow "force" the other tourist guides, that they must have a Slovenian guide when guided by our destinations. Just like they have in Venice and elsewhere in Europe. If they can, I don't see why they can't have us. In conversations with tourist guides, even they offered themselves that it would be those who would somehow control these foreign groups, who have some of their guides who are not registered, who do not know properly and well how to speak about our country. I was talking about a tourist cab. We also took a step forward on the New Slovenia initiative on the benefits of conducting professional excursions. It is said that the tourist tax would somehow adapt to the tourist season. When it's the main season, it's got the maximum, but it's going down beyond the main season. That's one thing. The second, I think you got from the Travelling Association, as far as hostels are concerned, to sort out a tourist tax there after years, to use a half-tax tourist fee for, I'll say, college students and younger people who are destined for these hostels, but for those of the elderly who are staying in hostels, it's a normal tax. There are some useful things like this, and even during all these other debates there will be another initiative and some good idea for us to drink this law. Basically, however, as this law is somehow read, as all other colleagues have also found, it goes in the right direction, so it is worth supporting. I think that with some minor corrections we would take one step forward again and put again one tile in this mosaic of tourism that we somehow want after Slovenia. But let's not forget how many multiplier effects this has, but let's not really forget that tourism is human. And that somehow leads us to the fact that with this country of ours, which has an endless sea of possibilities, natural heritage and cultural heritage, history to really get to one of those boutique desirable states that everyone would like. But there's still a lot of work to be done, of course. Accessibility is also one of the key tasks that the government, as well as the Ministry of Infrastructure, should undertake to seek to accelerate these links somehow. And then there are all the other things, but if we put these elements together slowly, I think they're slowly becoming clear patterns, where we want to bring this country in the direction of tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u113	We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate. Ms Eva Steves Podlogar, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, is also given the floor by the representative of the Government as a proposal for a bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Really, thank you all, honourable Members and Members, for your very constructive comments. Perhaps even in areas where we still did not seem to have a unified opinion today, it is of utmost importance for us that we all recognize the importance of tourism, that you appreciate it and that, together with the lawmakers, we want tourism to have better conditions for work and the possibility of greater added value and better quality jobs. I'm going to touch some of the areas where I think we can tell you some more explanations. Of course, we are also looking forward to the coming days and weeks when we will be able to speak more specifically about this. However, I would still like to say one word to Mr Ferruga on the subject of Airbnb, because it was just exposed that it was not that we did not all go together and also did something to exactly insist that the marketing of accommodation capacity through Airbnb was essentially an economic activity, that we also achieved somehow agreement, that we went together with the competent institutes, with FURS, TIR, also with the other ministry, even with those who deal with it can be said professionally, on behalf of these hosts, and only in one pre-seasonal month this was in June, it was based on this communication only in Ljubljana of more than 400 new paralegals, because Slovenia really judges among those countries that have this area decided that each natural person can be a janitor for a maximum of 15 beds. As you could see at the end of the year in the media, FURS obtained information on who Airbnb paid for, pointed out this fact, gave the possibility of self-declaration by the end of January, so that this period is still going on, and we will probably hear something new in February as well. If I go back to law school now. Where we have united ourselves that we have managed to solve certain open things, I will not stop. However, in tourist management, let me really stress that the profession of tourist guide really remains regulated. This was a clear message from the Interdepartmental Ministry, as well as a public hearing, that only the escort was actually deregulation. The law also defines tourist management in the tourist area, in the destination area. Even now, it is not just one congregation on the ground, since we have so many congregations that if a tourist is more active, he can walk or ride a bicycle to the very limit of one congregation, several municipalities are already joining together and he is working with professional institutes to train local tourist guides or tourist guides of the destination or tourist area. We also support this law further and count on a large number of people to decide on this additional education. Some on the national level, some on the national level. Today you have pointed out that Slovenia is extremely attractive from Gorička to Piran and from the Alps to the White landscape. We all agree very much on this, and this is also supported by the new strategy. Therefore, instead of many more destinations, we have joined the four macro destinations to have as few borders as possible in our heads. Nevertheless, it has been shown that 34 micro destinations, which are covered by about 55 municipalities, create 98% of all nights in Slovenia. The fact is that these micro destinations are really scattered throughout Slovenia, which is again good for Slovenian tourism. We are aware that even those congregations that may not be included in the housing congregation are certainly included in the congregations with significant sights, cultural, natural, or as we said, stories are made. Because of stories and attractions in Slovenia guests also visit us. These five-star experiences are certainly not related to luxury or millions of investments, they can also, but definitely not sure, but they are experiences in contact with people, in knowledge of natural and cultural heritage and in quality service, which, as you yourself have very much highlighted, is related to quality personnel. I would like to tell Mr Matić, who pointed out that cultural tourism is under-exposed, that we do not actually use the term cultural tourism. As well as gastronomy or health or sports, we use products – cities and culture, sports, gastronomy, nature as outdoor product and cities and culture are mentioned more than a hundred times. But it doesn't even matter. It is important that we are aware that cultural tourism is very important, that culture is important in the creation of products. Therefore, in 2018 and 2019 in Slovenia, they are also somehow defined as two years of cultural tourism, when there will be a great deal of emphasis on these products. It is in these weeks that our colleagues from the tourism economy are presenting themselves at very different ends of Europe and the animation community of medieval cities has taken over, with a focus on cultural tourism. Indeed, the Interdepartmental Group has not been established, which does not mean that we have not worked very closely with the Ministry of Culture. We were in contact, and a few weeks ago, the secretary of state, together with our minister, presented to us the extraordinary potentials of Slovenian castles, those already renovated, and unfortunately not used enough, those still waiting for a turn, and those who are already very high on the list of cultural sights. If I concentrate now on this elevated tourist tax and the promotion fee, which was also a lot of talk. The basic idea for such an increase in the tourist tax was, as has already been exposed, one of the starting points was our neighbours, both the Austrians and in Croatia pooling funds, then the fee is higher and then combined at the regional and local levels and then at the national level. But that basic argument was actually from the ground, by the municipalities that said, "we would invest much more in tourism and tourism infrastructure if we had the means to do so". And you will probably remember that basically this highest tourist tax was limited to those congregations that create more than 750 thousand nights. There were only four. Later in the public hearing, this restriction went out, but it seems very logical to us, and so it is expected that there is a great responsibility here on the part of local communities. A number of things from the legal matter in terms of the development of tourism at local level have been transferred to this local level. If we look at the case from a close and afar, there is no successful development of tourism unless the local community decides to do so. If they do not decide to want tourism, they will support it more in one phase and then everyone will live with tourism. Here we do not imagine that this money will just be lost or that the municipal councils of local communities, together with the tourist economy, will not talk about why the tax will rise, how much it will rise. The municipality will be absolutely determined by decree, it will be possible for the season, and the five-star hotel we have will have the maximum, the camps have 50, the paralegals can have 1.5 euros, and four-star hotels, for example, have 2 euros. All of this can be determined and calculated by a decree to expect such an increase in the coming year — sometimes, that is a fact — to go to millions — in the municipal budget, and that is why they will do so in the coming year to be more competitive in the global tourist market. I think that any responsible mayor or local community will likely approach this substantial increase if this proposal is accepted, tourist charges. These are absolute development funds. Therefore, it was also important for us to include and extend in Article 15 of the Law what all municipalities can spend this money: from the maintenance and promotion of cultural and natural attractions to tourist infrastructure, events and also to the maintenance of public or park areas, or for all the things that the tourist guest gets in the place for free. Promotion tax, in order to determine a stable, independent source for further promotion of Slovenian tourism. Several Members and Members have rightly highlighted and stressed that we have two laws in force. This is the law on gambling and also existing and also in the proposal of the current law on the promotion of the development of tourism, which defines that the concession for gambling is a dedicated source of 48% for the promotion and development of tourism at the local level, and 48% for the promotion and development of tourism at the national level, representing approximately 19 million, which has also been exposed to the promotion and development of tourism at the national level. The fact is that tourism in Slovenia is growing, that services are also growing, that added value is growing. Our goals are even more ambitious, but even more must be invested in the promotion itself during the period of growth. Here I do not think there has actually been a problem in your opinion as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Mr. Joseph Horvath, just you. Anyone else? I'm guessing no, so you're the only one who's entitled to an extra five minutes. Please, Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I am very pleased to start by saying this first that I have heard from the Secretary of State that only something is going on in the field of regulating the area of Airbnb. When I look at our vice president, I always remember that. I'm glad. But it's true that everyone would want this to go a little faster, and I believe that my colleague Mark Ferruga is happy with it. I continue with what I said earlier that tourism is not just a resort covered by the Ministry of the Economy, that it may be the most interdisciplinary sector, the economic sector or industry in this most modern sense of the word. And since I come from the Slovenian grain shop, I hope that I still have to stress the importance of agriculture here. Tourism is also agriculture. Here, of course, I mean food, or agriculture, which is food production. I make the equation here, agriculture is the same food. I don't like that farm that makes food, but I do like that farm that burns it. I don't like this kind of agriculture, and I don't like this kind of production. If we have to import food, and do so, it seems that more and more, because we are becoming less self-sustaining, then we are left with only waste and feces from tourism. I don't see any opposition, so we agree. And if the e-mobility I talked about before adds good home food, then we win. I'm sure we agree here, too. My friend Janko used to talk about the second track. It is true that this investment is made, we need transport infrastructure, I am not here, as you know me, some fierce opponent. When we talk about tourism today – what will tourism have from this because transport along the Slovenian diagonal will dramatically increase? Just to think. Yeah, you'll say electric locomotives. Yeah, right. We, I don't know, have been working for 20 years on some necessary remote Pinkes-Cirkovecs that will also supply electric Locomotives. But we just can't do that. I'm asking Members of Parliament questions, as if nobody cares. Colleague Maria Bachič mentioned the handicrafts. See how the number of handballs has been dropping dramatically over the last few years, seven, eight. New Slovenia, as an opposition party, has been working for several months to reach consensus only in Parliament on the Law on the Protection of Handicrafts. In a way, we have remained alone, or as far as I am aware, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has said that in this mandate we might only make a commitment to save the economy, or some commitment, because I simply do not know. Look, it's not all tourism. Such moves indicate that we have no will, no political will, no hope. We just have to hope. We must have ambition. If that is not the case, there will be a lactating country that is increasingly viewed, observed and appreciated by fewer and fewer other countries. I think my colleague Marko Ferruga mentioned the Chinese. Fantastic tourist potential, I'd say, man. Forget the Chinese on this stupid diplomatic complication of the Republic of Slovenia and China. Because we don't know how to go. Because we just don't have the knowledge. We're saying something, but we're doing something completely different. Nonsense and someone should be responsible for it. As far as I'm concerned, I'm in foreign policy. When and if you confess to Palestine, you will ban the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from travelling to the Holy Land, you will make this impossible. Good for that kind of tourism. Cultural tourism, it's called. There are those who are interested in it as a cultural destination. And that concludes it. Once upon a time, there was a light. Be an Internet person. The internet is also tourism, but as we want and advocate in Europe, 100 megabits per second.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u117	This also concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end the 8th item of the agenda and the 37th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4 p.m. and 20 minutes. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u118	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 6, 7, 8, 13, 15 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for an Adult Education Act under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 3. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[64 votes in favour.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC and Desus to Article 23. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 14. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The motion for a bill has already proposed in the introductory explanation that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, and they all voted in favour. [[The vote was 67.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 3 and 23 of the amended law. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would not have brought the proposal of the law into line in the second reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. [[The vote was 68.]] The law was adopted unanimously. This concludes item 6 of the agenda. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on Kobilna Lipica in the context of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of SMC and SD to Article 15. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 37. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 36. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC and SD to Article 38. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 42. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 37. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 44. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 36. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC and SD to Article 45. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of Article 45 of the Left Party. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 36. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendments and second reading of the bill. Since the proposer of the draft law, at the time of the introductory explanation, proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at that meeting, carry out a third examination of the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the Second reading adopted the amendments to Articles 15, 38 and 45 of the amended Law. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 7 of the agenda. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law promoting the development of tourism is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 4. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Economy as a working body. This concludes item 8 of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on the political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and its member states on the one hand and the Republic of Cuba on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother's work, which reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 6. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge of a member and the appointment of a member of the Board of the Energy Agency. The proposal was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I'm putting pressure on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u119	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. At its meeting on 12 June 2014, the National Assembly adopted a decision appointing the President and members of the Board of the Energy Agency, which, inter alia, states that Dr Tomaž Žagar is also appointed as a member of the Board of the Energy Agency for a period of six years. Dr. Tomaž Žagar is the Energy Agency 13. 6. 2017 notification of the modification of the employer, at the same time giving a derogation from the seat of the Board of the Energy Agency, since, in accordance with the third indent of Article 393 of the Energy Act, a member of the Board of the Energy Agency may not be employed by an energy operator. The government has drawn up a list of candidates that meet the conditions laid down in the Energy Act. The National Assembly shall dismiss a member of the Board of the Agency and appoint a new member of the Board of the Energy Agency for the remainder of the term of office, until June 2020. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to appoint Katja Bozič as a member of the Energy Agency's Board for the remainder of the term of office of the authorised member. Mrs Bozič is a master of management and organisation science, specialising in bank management, and her knowledge has been upgraded in the economy, the Ministry of Finance and education abroad. Mrs Christmas meets the legal conditions for appointment to the Council of the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u120	The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Honourable Representative of the Government. At its 41st meeting, on 18 January 2018, the Commission considered a proposal for the discharge of a member and the appointment of a member of the Board of the Energy Agency to the National Assembly. 1. 2018 submitted by the Government. Article 390 of the Energy Act provides that the energy authorities of the Energy Agency shall be the Council of the Agency and the Director. The Council’s powers are laid down in Article 391 of that Act. In accordance with the first and second paragraphs of Article 392 of the Energy Act, the Council of the Agency shall be composed of the President and five members appointed and dissolved by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The sixth paragraph of the same Article further provides that the National Assembly shall vote on the proposed candidate for President or a member of the Council within 30 days of receipt of the Government's proposal. On the basis of paragraph 8, the President or a member of the Council shall be appointed for a period of six years. If a new President or a member of the Council is to be appointed in the event of an early termination of his or her office, he or she shall be appointed as the remainder of the term of office. As the Government's representative explained in the introduction the proposal and the progress, we can conclude that the National Assembly is 12. 6. 2014 adopted a decision appointing the President and members of the Board of the Energy Agency, by which he also appointed Dr Tomaž Žagar as a member for six years. The Ministry of Infrastructure issued a call for proposals for a member of the Council of the Energy Agency, to which four candidates applied. All candidates fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 393 of the Energy Act and are therefore included by the Minister of Infrastructure in the list of candidates for the Board of the Energy Agency transmitted by the Government. The Government took note of the list of candidates for the Minister of Infrastructure and proposes to the National Assembly that Mag shall appoint the remaining member of the Board of the Energy Agency for the remainder of the term of office. Katja Christmas. The discussion raised objections to the Government's proposal to appoint a proposed candidate as a member of the Agency's Board. At the same time, it has been pointed out that it is a matter of appointing a body that will play a very important role in the future in the field of energy, requiring particular attention in deciding on the appointment of such an important position. The proposed candidate, despite the Government's assurance that she fulfils all the legal conditions for appointment, is not appropriate in the view of some members of the Commission, because she does not meet the highest standards, in particular because of her past role as a member of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. Members of the Commission were therefore interested to know whether the Ministry of Infrastructure, in its oral interview, had confronted the applicant with the allegations that had appeared in public. Secretary of State mag. Klemen Potysek replied that these statements were not verified by the candidate and ensured that the candidate also met the requirement of non-penalty laid down by the law. On the basis of the statement of the Minister of Infrastructure, the members of the Commission considered that the four applicants met the legal conditions for appointment, which is why he also placed everything on the list of candidates submitted by the Government, that the Government could propose a more suitable candidate for appointment. In view of the debate and the concerns expressed in it about the suitability of the proposed candidate for a member of the Board of the Agency and the procedural proposal submitted, the Commission voted separately on the proposal of the Government for the discharge of a member and on the proposal of the Government for the appointment of a member. First of all, she voted on the following proposal for a decision: The Mandate-Electorial Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision by which a member of Dr Tomaž Žagar will be dissolved in the Energy Agency's Council. The Commission adopted the decision. The mandate-holder's committee then voted on the following proposal for a decision: The mandate-holder's commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision appointing Mag as a member of the Energy Agency's Board for the remainder of the term of office of the authorised member. Katya Christmas. The Commission did not adopt the decision. Taking into account the above, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Board of the Energy Agency be adopted and that the proposal for a decision on the appointment of a member of the Board of the Energy Agency be not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u122	There are no applications for discussion. Before we go to the vote, I should like to point out that the National Assembly will decide separately, in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission on the Government's proposal, on the discharge of the member of the Energy Agency, Dr Tomaž Žagar and on the appointment of mags. Katje Christmas as a member of the Board of the Energy Agency for the remainder of the term of office of the authorised member. If the decision on the discharge of a member of the Energy Agency is not adopted, the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Energy Agency will become irrelevant. We are therefore moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve a member of Dr Tomaž Žagar in the Energy Agency's world. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly that it adopt its decision. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are also voting on a proposal for a decision appointing a mag as a member of the Energy Agency's Board for the remainder of the discharge term. Katya Christmas. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly not to adopt a proposal for a decision. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u123	From the point of view of the procedure, since it is usually a different decision, I would like to clarify. Given that you, the President, mentioned at the end what the MVK is proposing, I am interested in what this means if we vote in favour. Does this mean that there is no decision or that the candidate is not elected or vice versa? It's basically a little bit of a mess because of your three words at the end. I would like to know whether this is an integral part of the decision or whether this is just your conclusion of what the MVK voted on. Thank you. To make it easier for me to know how to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u124	Voting is very simple. The decision is formulated positively and we therefore vote on a decision appointing a mag as a member of the Energy Agency's Board for the remainder of the discharge term. Katya Christmas. That's the conclusion. Then there is a notice of what the Mandate-Election Commission is proposing. If you support the decision, then it will become a member, if not, and I will inform the government. Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u125	I propose that you congratulate Mr Möderndorfer for proving with this question that he is indeed the right person to lead the investigative commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u126	It's a completely inappropriate comment. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 10 votes against 36. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. As the proposed candidate for a member of the Board of the Agency has not received the required majority of the votes cast, I will immediately inform the Government in accordance with Article 392(7) of the Energy Act. We are moving on to the consideration of the motion for election to a judicial office at the District Court in Novi mesto. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ms Betka Šimc to the judicial office of the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Novi mesto. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor on behalf of the Court of Justice to Judge Špeli Jakopic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u127	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Town District Court, the number of judges decreased in the past year, as one of the judges was appointed to the post of President of the District Court in Montenegro. The reasons for the call for a free judicial seat are, in addition to the court's staff weakening, business data requiring the completion of the vacant seat, otherwise there would be difficulties in its functioning. Seven candidates applied for a district judge in the New Town District Court for the criminal area. Among the candidates submitted, the Council of Justice, as the most appropriate candidate, elected Betko Šimc, who was proposed to the National Assembly for election. Candidate Betka Simc started her career in banking. Following her legal examination, she was employed as a professional associate at the District Court in Nova City, where she was employed until 2005. She also worked as a lawyer in the Municipality of Šentjernej and later in the Union of Labour Unions of Slovenia. In 2007, she took office in the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, in 2008 at the State Attorney's Office in New Town, where she served for five years. In 2013, she was appointed to the specialized state prosecutor's office, where she still holds the prosecutor's office today. The candidate has worked in various legal areas so far, mostly in the criminal field.After a legal examination, she gained more than 15 years of work experience. Almost 10 years of work experience has been held in a stand-alone place by state prosecutors, since 2013 dealing with the most difficult forms of economic and organised crime. Her work was considered very good. It has very good expertise, very good working skills and extremely rich knowledge of criminal, material and procedural law. In her work, she learned to make her own decisions and to justify her decisions. The excellent knowledge, skills and skills required for the successful performance of judicial work has also been demonstrated by candidate Šimchev in her interview with members of the Council of Justice. On the basis of the foregoing, the Council of Justice considered that Betka Šimc was the most suitable for the seat of the Court of Justice and therefore proposed to the National Assembly for election to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Novi mesto.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u128	Thank you. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Mrs Betka Šimc is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in the New Town District Court. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial function of the Supreme Court of Justice at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the external department of Celje. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mr Edward Ermenc to the judicial office of the High Court of Justice at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the external department of Celje. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor on behalf of the Court of Justice to Judge Špeli Jakopic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u129	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In 2007, one judge retired from the External Division of the Court of Administrative Affairs in Celje, where only two courts were organised. In view of the discharge of the Court of Justice and taking into account the statistics on the work of the Court, the Supreme Court, at the proposal of the President of the Administrative Court, called for a seat of justice, as this was essential to ensure its smooth work. Four candidates applied for the invitation of the Supreme Court of Justice at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia at the external department of Celje. Among the candidates submitted, the Council of Justice elected Edward Ermenec as the most appropriate, as proposed by the State Assembly for election. Candidate Edward Ermenc started his career in the administrative field first, as he participated in extradition procedures for other countries at the Ministry of Justice. He later upgraded his work experience and knowledge in the field of administrative law with criminal law. As a stand-alone district attorney, he worked in criminal law in the field of classical and organised and economic crime. He has gained a high degree of professional theoretical knowledge, which he has been very successful in solving specific issues. After a legal examination, he has more than 17 years of work experience. As District Attorney, he was also assigned to the Organised Crime Unit of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, where he faced the most challenging cases. He did his work at a high professional level. In the case of the candidate, independence shall be exercised at work and decision-making and the reasons for his or her decisions. He also had a very successful conversation with the members of the Council of Justice. He has demonstrated excellent analytical and logical thinking and very good verbal ability. On the basis of the foregoing, the Council of Justice considered that Edward Ermenc was the most suitable for the seat of the Court of Justice and therefore proposed to the National Assembly for election to the Supreme Court of Justice in the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which Mr Edward Ermenc is elected to the judicial office of the Chief Justice of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the external section of Celje. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of the Magi. Katje Rojko in judicial capacity at the District Court of Labour in Maribor. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor on behalf of the Court of Justice to Ms Špeli Jakopic, District Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u131	Your Honor! In recent years, many judges have left the Labour Court in Maribor. There was a further weakening last year when another judge retired. In the event of a significant reduction in the number of judges, it is difficult for the parties to provide adequate legal protection. These reasons required an invitation to tender for the District Court of Justice at the Labour Court in Maribor. 12 candidates applied for the invitation, of which the Council of Justice has chosen the mag as the most appropriate. Katja Rojko, who proposes to elect the National Assembly. Katja Rojko was an extremely successful student of law at the Faculty of Law in Maribor, and in 2006 she also performed a very good legal exam. In 2014 she obtained the name of the Master of Law. She started her career in the economy and continued her career in court. From 2006 onwards, she has been employed as a senior judicial adviser at the Civil Division of the Supreme Court in Maribor. He is the head of the professional co-workers in this court and the administrator of the base of the Higher Court in Maribor for the preparation of decisions of all sections of that court for entry into the EEPS base. On her career, she gained a wealth of legal knowledge and demonstrated extensive work experience in the field of judicial work. For more than 10 years, senior judicial advisors at the Supreme Court of Maribor have been working on draft decisions of the second-degree court, representing cases at the meetings of the Boards of Appeal and also carrying out additional tasks. Many opinions from senior judges show that the candidate has done her job very well and that she has demonstrated a high quality of expertise and skills. In her interview with the members of the Council of Justice, she showed a very rich, broad and in-depth expertise in the field of labour and civil procedural law, excellent analytical and logical thinking, and she was extremely successful in arguing solutions to more difficult legal problems. In doing so, it has also demonstrated excellent verbal skills and very good communication skills. The key reasons for the conclusion of the Council of Justice were that Katja Rojko was the most suitable candidate for the District Court’s seat at the Labour Court in Maribor, so he proposed to the National Assembly for election to this court seat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u132	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for a decision, by which mag is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. Katya Royko. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted a proposal to the National Assembly by electing Ms Katarina Rajgelj to serve as Judge of the District Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor on behalf of the Council of Justice to the District Court of Justice, Mrs Špeli Jakopic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u133	Your Honor! According to statistics, the Court of Labour and Social Affairs in Ljubljana is most burdened by all first-degree working courts. In order to ensure a reasonable period of time in working and social disputes, full staff should be provided in this court with the staffing plan for the envisaged judicial posts. In addition to the burden of the court with the cases and the staff rash in court, there is also an additional reason for the call for a judicial seat by the staff structure of the judges. On its basis, the power is to anticipate a number of pensions over the next five years. 17 candidates applied for the invitation of a district judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Among the applicants, the Council of Justice elected Katarina Rajgelj, who is proposed to the National Assembly for election. Candidate Katarina Rajgelj has more than 20 years of work experience, of which more than 9 years after a legal examination. She was employed in public administration, in the private sector and in justice. For six years she worked as a senior judicial adviser at the Social Department of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, before which she worked in the field of labour law, since 2014 she has been a lawyer. Throughout its career, he also deals mainly with legal and social matters, and therefore the main work experience is related to this legal area. In the case of candidate Katarina Rajgelj, it is necessary to highlight its diverse and long-standing work experience, which has been gained mainly by working in the labour and social fields, and the excellent recommendations made by senior and supreme judges who participated with the candidate during the six-year period of her employment in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Among the registered candidates, Katarina Rajgelj is a positive candidate because of the rich in-depth and diverse expertise in the fields of labour and social law. A significant part of its career is actively linked to the work of the courts. The great breadth and in depth of expertise and extensive work experience, rhetorical skills, communication skills and critical and analytical thinking have also been shown by the candidate in the interview or in the answers to questions from members of the Council, where she has proved to be excellent. Therefore, the full assessment of the expertise, experience and ability of the candidate led the Council of Justice to conclude that Katarina Rajgelj is the most suitable candidate for the seat of the Court of Justice and therefore proposes to the National Assembly to elect her as a judge of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-37.ana.u134	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which Mrs Katarina Rajgelj is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present and 43 votes against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve the mag in the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia. Bojan Pohar. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes item 15 of the agenda. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, these are questions of Members and Members The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers, Ministers and Secretary-General of the Government of 23. 1. 2018, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Alenke Bratušek in connection with the announced public sector statement. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 33. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Jelka Godec's question on government action on health corruption. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 32. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Mate T. Vatovac, on the possibility of removing Hungary from the second track project. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 35. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. On the question of the Minister's statement regarding the decision-making, Dr. Franz Trček, on the e-mail. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 38. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejana jedana to the question of Luke Mesca on food advice in the ad campaign Our Super Food. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Culture Minister Anton Peršak to the question of the post of Mr Violet Tomić regarding the programme tender in the field of art in 2018-2021. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 29. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc, to the question by Mr Horvat on the analysis of the Ministry of Health on the consequences of presentation. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 37. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič, and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovalska to the questions of Mr. Franz Breznik regarding the imbalance between the price of autogas and gas for heating. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 38. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and Space of Irene Majcen to the question by Ljub Žnidar on the provision of flood safety. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 35. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irene Majcen to the question of the question of the level of the shooting of the brown bear. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 37. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boris Koprivnikar, to the question of Mr Bojan Podkrodška, on the sale of business premises owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 40. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government of Mag. Lilliana Kozlović asked Matjaž Hanžka about the regulation and improvement of the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petra Gasperšič, to the question of Mr. Jožef Horvat, on the promotion of e-mobility in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 38. [[in favour of 24.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. I hereby adjourn the 37th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Thursday, 25. 1. 2018, at 9 a.m.
