ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 15th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Eva Irgl, Janja Sluga, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Franc Rosec, Igor Zorčič, Matjaž Nemec, Samo Bevk, Ludmila Novak from 13:00 on, Blaž Pavlin from 16:00 on, Andreja Zabret from 11. to 17.30 on, Ferenc Horváth from 15:00 on, Felice Žiža, Jožef Horvat from 15:00 on, Jernej Vrtovec from 18:00 on, Iva Dimic from 17:00 on, Zan Mahnič from 17:00 on, and I will also be absent from 15.30 on 17:00. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 28 November 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a decision. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the agenda of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been adopted. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that's the first defensively proposed bill on amendments to the minimum wage law. The draft law was tabled by a group of 52 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Luke Mesec. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members of Parliament, with the first-signed Mr Branet Golubovic, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Luka Mesac.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, citizens and citizens, workers and workers! The raise of the minimum wage of €700 is one of the fundamental commitments of the Left, a commitment that responds to one of the key injustices of our time. It is a difficult decade for Slovenia, which has been particularly difficult for the weakest and the worst paid. The recession has lost tens of thousands of jobs, has landed on tens of thousands of people in a permafrost working relationship, and has contributed decisively to poverty in the country for many years of austerity and salary freezes and to dissatisfaction that has not even been halted by economic recovery. Justifiably! According to data from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the private sector's profits in Slovenia increased by 18 times between 2013 and 2016, while wages at the head of the minimum were stagnated in the same period. Trades generate more than 100 million euros of profits each year, but trade is one of the sectors with the largest share of minimum wages. Finally, according to this country, after five years of economic growth, there are still 70,000 people working for salaries less than €667 per month, and 120 thousand people receive full-time wages less than €700 per month. In short, today we decide whether the economic recovery of Slovenia will finally take place among those who contribute most to it, workers and workers. The Novela of the Minimum Wage Act brings three key changes. The first is to raise the minimum wage, as we say, in two steps. In one month, 638 to 667 euros, and in a good year, 1 January 2020 to 700 euros net monthly. The second amendment is to exclude the remaining allowances from the minimum wage: the allowance for working hours, the work and business performance allowances and the more difficult working conditions will no longer be allowed to be added to the minimum wage, but, as for all other wages, they will be added to this salary. It is unacceptable that only those with the lowest wages actually have these allowances included in their final salary. The third and final amendment is the formula that will set the lower threshold for minimum wage. Someone who works full-time, 8 hours a day, 40 hours a week, will be from 1. 1. 2021, when the formula enters into force, must have earned at least 20 per cent more than the minimum cost of living. From sentient benches, we often hear sentences such as: work must be paid or work must enable a decent life. We fully agree with that in Levica. And the formula that sets the lowest wage in the country at least 20% above the minimum cost of living is the best guarantee that work in this country will be finally paid. A minimum wage raise is also important for the development of the economy at this time. As you know, we are in the fifth year of economic growth, unemployment is shrinking rapidly. According to SURS data, only 5.2% were unemployed in the second quarter of 2018. Companies are already reporting that labour is lacking, raising minimum wage is a way for less productive companies to encourage business restructuring and optimisation. If, as a country, we allow companies to continue to live and generate profits on low wages and labour exploitation, not on innovation and productivity, it will not only be bad for workers, but for everyone. We can't make any progress like this. If it's ever the right time to raise minimum wage, it's now. The economic climate is pleasant and Umar estimates that we reached the top of the conjuncture last year. The second half of the favourable economic conditions must therefore be used to restructure the economy, raise all wages and correct the social injustices that have occurred in the decade of the crisis. If I stay here. The law is supported by a number of humanitarian and charitable organizations, including the Red Cross, Karitas, the Union of Youth Friends, the Botrostvo project, the Slovenian Philanthropy. This is what they wrote in their call to Members and Members: "This is a gesture of fundamental humanity, which no one seeks beyond the reach of an acceptable border and by which every day should overcome any political contradictions and the accumulation of political points. The view of the empty wallet has never been and will not be a matter of ideology.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I give you my word, too, mag. Kseniya Klampfer, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u4	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On 7 November 2018, Levica tabled a proposal for a law amending the Minimum Wages Act on the support of coalition Members. The draft law provides for the determination of the amount of gross minimum wage in 2019 to EUR 886.63 and in 2020 to EUR 940.58, the determination of the supplements laid down by law, regulations and collective agreements and the amount of minimum wage, the determination of the formula whereby the minimum wage from 2021 should be 120 per cent of the minimum cost of living should be calculated in accordance with social legislation at least every 6 years. In Slovenia, the payment for the work performed is governed by the Labour Relations Act, stating that the employer must take into account the minimum wage laid down by the law or collective agreement which directly obliges the employer. The law provides that the salary consists of a basic salary, part of the salary for performance, allowances and payments for business performance, provided that this is agreed by a collective agreement or a contract of employment. The basis for regulating wages for different levels of complexity of work is collective agreements concluded at different levels, which are subject to free negotiations between workers and employers. They also autonomously decide on the levels of initial or basic wages for different levels of labour complexity. However, the Minimum Wage Act sets at national level the minimum wage to be respected by all employers when paying workers for their work. The amount of the minimum wage determined in accordance with the law, which is coordinated at least annually with the increase in the price of living needs, represents the lowest possible monthly salary, which belongs to a full-time employee even if his wages under a collective agreement or contract of employment were reduced. In doing so, any additions to work under specific working conditions arising from the allocation of working time, reimbursement of costs and other benefits from the working relationship must already be exempted from the minimum wage. In dealing with the issue of minimum wages, the government seeks to regulate and establish a minimum wage to ensure a decent life. We estimate that the proposal to amend the Minimum Wages Act pursues professional objectives in terms of the elimination of all additives and, by referring to the minimum cost of living, establishes a meaningful relationship between the income of workers and the income of inactive workers. A minimum wage raise is reasonable and is also needed as a result of the recent rise in the basic minimum income of individuals in terms of maintaining relationships or stimulating to work and reducing the trap of inactivity. The past, the current and projected macroeconomic circumstances, according to our assessment, allow for these changes. At this point, I stress that wage growth in recent years has been lagging behind in the growth of other macroeconomic indicators, such as GDP growth, average wage growth and productivity growth. However, it should be added that the financial impact of certain elements of the amendments, such as the identification of additives and the introduction of new formulas, is relatively difficult to assess due to the absence of the necessary data for all stakeholders. With regard to the proposed amendments, the Government has also consistently stressed the need to involve the social partners in the preparation of changes and the importance of social dialogue in the area of minimum wage. To this end, we are also committed to certain international rules and treaties in the ordinary practice and way of working in Slovenia. On 16 November 2018, the Economic and Social Council took note of the Government's proposal for amendments to the Minimum Wages Act and failed to hold a substantive debate on individual articles due to opposition to the content, the way employers work. At the initiative of employers on 20 November 2018, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology also called on the Expert Council for a Competitive and Stable Business Environment, in which the representatives of employers continued to discuss the possibility of raising the minimum wage, as it is the responsibility of the Government to ensure the well-being of its citizens and citizens as well as to ensure successful economic development. In dealing with the issue of minimum wages, the government seeks to regulate and establish a minimum wage to ensure decent living for employees and to promote economic development. The whole process must take place in social dialogue. In view of the above, the Government does not oppose the objectives pursued by the proposal for a law, but estimates that further legislative procedures would make the most sense to take social dialogue into account when seeking the most appropriate solutions. As Minister of Labour, too, I am absolutely trying to raise the minimum wage. I believe that workers must receive a fair payment, and this must be above the threshold of poverty risk. According to the European Social Charter, which was adopted in 1961, a fair payment means that a full-time worker receives a payment that makes it possible to live a decent life without social transfers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. First you have the floor, Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleague! We all probably agree that the net wages in Slovenia are too low. In New Slovenia, we have long been alerting and taking action. From this point of view, we could say that the basic proposal to raise minimum wages in the Republic of Slovenia is positive, but only at first sight. We don't agree to state interventionism. It's not just the minimum wage problem, the problem is all pay, the problem is they're too low. In Novi Slovenija we note that the rise in minimum wage is to be achieved in the wrong way, which causes more problems, at least three new problems or injustices. First of all, it's a partial raise in wages that's going to break the relationship between tariff classes. Just yesterday, in New Slovenia, we proposed raising general income relief, which I would stress to all employees, i.e. not only to those with the lowest income, brought up net wages on average to all income-bearing persons or to any income-bearing person with a net of EUR 390 per year. You have rejected this proposal. Secondly, the proposal of Levice only exacerbates the situation in Slovenia, as it again imposes additional tax burdens on the work; that is, employers and workers are further burdened by increasing contributions and income. The proposal of New Slovenia, which you therefore rejected yesterday, would only increase net wages and would not put an additional burden on gross wages. And that seems to us the right solution that Slovenia needs. Thirdly, the rise in wages is trying to force the social dialogue between the social partners, which is not good for the future of social dialogue in Slovenia. In New Slovenia we warn that all social partners are equally important, equally important! and the country is obliged to maintain this sensitive balance between employers and trade unions. If I return to the first point, it is necessary to recall the warnings of employers we have all received recently. This way of interfering with social dialogue will undermine the relationship between tariff classes. Due to the sudden increase in minimum wage and the simultaneous exclusion of all the extras from the amount overnight, someone who receives a slightly higher wage than the minimum will earn less than the recipient of the minimum wage. A balance sheet is being introduced, in the way that we were used to it in another social political system that has fortunately failed. We can add to the second point that the marriage proposal has been tabled by the most powerful government party, Levica. There's nothing wrong with that. The problem is that the Government is not doing its job, namely not protecting social dialogue. In the past, governments that may not have had much attention for social dialogue have already stopped similar objectives. In this case, the government is quietly agreeing to a dictated party which is highly dislikable to the economy and is spreading social demagogies in public. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens, the fact is that almost the same country as the worker will have a minimum wage increase. Of course, it is about filling the budgetary state treasury as much as possible. We need a very strong, very full state treasury in order to be able to provide salaries from this state treasury for those employed by the previous government just before leaving, and of course for those employed by the new ministerial team. In Novi Slovenija we have proposed several times in the last term a package of legislation to increase net wages, without increasing the burden on employers. Yesterday we discussed the Income Act, which would have a solid net effect on average and higher net wages by raising general relief. Finally, in 2016, we proposed the Social Security Contributions Act, which would introduce the so-called social slipper or the lower limit on the payment of social security contributions. The border would be set at the level of general income relief and would carry the minimum wage of EUR 50 per month to the recipient, which is EUR 600 per year, without further burdening the employers. At the time before this proposal was tabled, we Christian Democrats met with all the social partners and were assured that our proposal could be a very good starting point for an agreement to increase net wages without increasing the burden on employers. The second point may be the warnings from the employers' comments that we have all recently received, and thus the social dialogue intervention will undermine the relationship between the tariff classes. Social dialogue in Slovenia has almost completely died in the last 10 years. That's why he's in the worst position as a worker. Why do you think last year about 9,000 people who can work have left this country? However, who will be responsible for this once, or at least give relevant answers.? Let us just look at the side effects that have occurred in this decade: the poor, the poor, the bad exploitation, the actual abuse of workers without legal epilogues, the unregulated field of agency work — if I add up just a few. In New Slovenia, we wonder if the law we are currently considering will solve these cases. Will a worker who earns less than a minimum wage be any better now? If today the recipients have a minimum wage of just over 30,000, how many will there be after the rise in 2020? Is our vision ever more of a minimum wage recipient? Not for New Slovenia at all. Because of all this, we cannot support the law. But we will vote each at our own discretion, as always.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Also in the Alenka Bratušek Party, today's Minimum Wages Act, which we also signed with pleasure, will be supported. We too believe that the minimum wage is low, too low, and that too many people are receiving it. This is already a problem today and an even greater problem about the future when the beneficiaries of this minimum wage will be pensioners and will also receive a minimum pension. Thus, we do not mind that the minimum wage is raised, and we do not mind that the following classes of wages are raised. We think that's the right thing to do. In particular, now that we have recently adopted the Minimum Social Remuneration Act in this National Assembly, when the ratio of social benefits to the minimum wage has become unsustainablely low. It is unsustainable that people working eight hours, the whole worker, sometimes even on Saturdays and Sundays, receive only a few ten euros more than those who do not work. On the other hand, in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we would like such serious legislative proposals to be adopted with a view to respecting social dialogue and considering the impact on the whole public sector and the economic system. This, in our view, would also mean that such legal solutions should be proposed by the government and not by an individual parliamentary group. Nevertheless, we have listened carefully to employers' comments in our party, let us say to many reasonable warnings that there is still an unsustainable difference between net and gross payments. On the other hand, we were not convinced by the arguments of some other employers. During the long period of the economic crisis, a number of businesses and economies have received many solutions, as well as incentives to help them get out of the crisis. And that's right. I have supported a number of similar solutions myself. On the other hand, I agree with all those who, after so many years, are now sustainable and even above average economic growth, including those in the public sector, but not only those in the public sector, but also all others; they must also be affected by the positive consequences of economic progress. Despite the legitimate concerns of some employers that future crises are still to follow, employees must also receive periods of such fat cows, not just periods of economic crisis. At the same time, I cannot go beyond the many negative cases of individual employers, fortunately few we all know. Cases of people who carry out activities with a number of employees on a minimum wage, paying themselves or profit or in any other way living very well. And their people work not only for eight hours a day for a minimum wage, but as I have already mentioned, sometimes much more, sometimes on Saturdays, Sundays, and even at night. Even in our party, we have no objection to successful individuals, and we know that they are important to every society. However, we believe that those who have a great deal must also make sure that their employees are able to live at least roughly fair lives. It's their duty. That is why today's session for us, and for me too, is also an opportunity to think about what country we want to live in. In Stanka Alenka Bratušek, we want to live in a democratic social state with a strong middle layer, effective public health, quality public education, friendly housing policy and a strong and democratic political system. We want to preserve the important democratic gains of post-war Europe, including, in particular, the state of prosperity. At the Party of Alenka Bratusek we are not to return to surviving models of socialism or capitalism – far from it! On the other hand, we strongly oppose neoliberalism; neoliberalism, which has done so much damage in recent years. In his excellent article in the Saturday annex of Dela, Dr. Rudi Rizman wrote the words of British sociologist Stuart Hall, who says regarding neoliberalism: “This is a right-wing project in order to degrade the state’s role and, if not, completely eliminates it and so sets off after World War II the established social state. The role of governments in the redistribution of social wealth and social rights should be reduced. This is, deregulation of capitalism and aggressive attacks on the values on which these countries were founded.” End of quote. Even in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we want such a strong social state that will be able to influence and regulate the market in a way that will work for the benefit of all people and citizens. In view of everything, I think there is no doubt that we will support today's marriage in the Alenka Bratušek Party, where we also signed this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! From January of this year, there is a minimum wage of EUR 638. The poverty risk threshold, calculated on the basis of macroeconomic facts, is now €636. We see that the amounts are almost the same, so we have a proposal to raise the minimum wage. It's right to go back a few years ago and look at how it's transformed and raised minimum wages. In 2016, allowances for night work, work on Sundays and work during holidays were exempted from the definition of minimum wage. However, the overtime allowance was never counted in the structure of the minimum wage. Later, in a previous reference to Parliament, an initiative to raise the minimum wage was also proposed by the Levica Group to raise the minimum wage to EUR 603. At the same time, it proposed a new Law on Minimum Wages and a new Law on Income. On the basis of these proposals, the minimum wage would be EUR 700 net. None of these proposals were adopted at the time. A number of initiatives and proposals have been put forward to help raise the minimum wage. The Levica Group proposed that all the allowances provided by the Labour Relations Act and the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act should be excluded from the definition of minimum wage, so that the minimum wage would in fact be the starting salary. The basic guide has always been that the minimum wage cannot and must not be lower than the minimum cost of living. Thus we see that much energy has already been invested in improving the situation of the most vulnerable part of our citizens and citizens in the previous term. The minimum wage is determined on the basis of rising prices of living needs, it is said that inflation, based on wage movements, based on economic conditions or economic growth and employment trends. The minimum wage shall be aligned each year at least with the increase in the cost of living. The promotion is proposed by the Minister or Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. On the basis of these measures, the minimum wage of EUR 638 is today. In the Desus Group we certainly support activities aimed at improving living standards, as we are basically a social party. By improving or raising wages, we will also give our pensioners a more decent life, as more contributions will be paid, including the full amount of pension bills. It is also clear that pensions should be kept in line with wage increases. In the coalition agreement, we have written down that in the next two years we will see to it that we raise the minimum wage in a dynamic of 4.5 per cent per year. It is proposed that the minimum wage from 1 January 2019 will be EUR 667 and EUR 700 net from 1 January 2020 and we will start using the formula for calculating the minimum wage in 2021. The objective of the coalition agreement is also to exclude the remaining allowances from the definition of minimum wage. In our parliamentary group, we will certainly support the proposed law at first reading. However, we have some concerns about the elimination of all allowances from the minimum wage at once, regarding the dynamics of the enforcement of all articles of the law. Let me also mention that for older citizens between 50 and 65 years of age, the identification of work-life allowances is currently an unpleasant news, as it will make it even harder for them to get a job. However, I believe that with the gradual withdrawal of all the supplements we will achieve satisfaction, a satisfactory relationship for all employees and that they will be able to run equally for jobs. Members of Desus are confident that in the second reading we will all find the right solution together. In the Desus Group, we also insist that social dialogue is urgently needed between all partners, namely the Government, trade unions and employers. All three together represent our country and our citizens. We are aware that a strong and healthy economy has driven the development of the whole society. Representatives of the economy should also be heard and heard and coordinated, or at least processed, the proposed measures in areas which have an impact on the successful functioning of the economy and thus on countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dušan Šiško, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u12	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party Group we will support the proposed amendment because it is good for the Slovenian nation. It's good for people who work and aren't lazy. It is necessary to take those who do not want to work and to give to those who work. At one of the previous extraordinary meetings, we were against an increase or proposal extending the current level of social assistance. With a proposal that the Slovenian public likes, forgive the voting base of coalition parties, plus one, we have extended the amount of social assistance to 392,75 euros. It's just not right. The minimum wage amounts to EUR 734.15, according to the Ministry's harmonisation, to EUR 842.78. The sad thing is, that's a gross amount. Do you know how much the net amount is? I'll tell you: 638.42 euros! Dear fellow Members, do you know how much the difference between the net amount of the minimum wage and the receipt of monetary social assistance is? This amount is EUR 245,67. Unlike the good 200 euros, it is more than obvious that there is a pulse in society that is not worth doing or worth doing. Work's been devalued. On the other hand, national sport is black work. It is also a problem of correcting the minimum wage and the amount of a full old pension, which is for women after the new 505.78 euros. So, you have just heard, it is higher than the amount of minimum wage mainly for the reason that our pensioners have an interested party in every government that lobbies for their interests. Working people have more needs than others, previously listed social groups. We have families to survive. Most of these workers, whom we are deciding today, did not have the opportunity to purchase real estate under the Law of Jasbinsk, such as pensioners. This is why the balance between the amounts legally fixed is absolutely broken, and many of our people are going to work elsewhere. We believe that this measure is also a measure to prevent our people from going abroad. The Minimum Wages Act was adopted in 2010, when there were completely different economic conditions. GDP per capita was lower than in 2018, which means that a limited amount should be adjusted already due to international commitments. But you are familiar with International Labour Organization Convention No. 131, which provides in Article 3, that when determining the amount of minimum personal income, account must be taken of the needs of workers and their families in relation to the general level of personal income in the country, the cost of living, social security benefits and the relative standard of living of other social groups. So today that this law is being passed, it is our international obligation. However, as regards the proposed change following the elimination of all remaining allowances and part of the salary for performance and performance payments as defined in the minimum wage definition, it should be noted that the new Minimum Wage Act 2015, which defined which allowances are not included in the minimum wage, has already been adopted in this area. And now we're redecorating the same matter with the same government team, that's really absurd! It's about loving populism action by the ruling elite, how to put your electoral base on a candy bar to remember your political decision. The matter should be fully settled by 2015. The Labour Relations Act as a roof regulation is perfectly clear what pay is, what supplements are and what is work and business performance. This kind of partial law-making is just candy for your constituents and it's not hygienic or political to the legal profession. The law is good because it touches our working people, for whom we are gathered today to provide and help them in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Carmen Furman, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the amendment to the Law on Minimum Wages, which was tabled by the party Levica in the National Assembly. There is probably no citizen in Slovenia today who would not agree that the minimum wage is too low, that the current wage and labour legislation is completely devalued and undervalued. More and more people are unable to live decently and to support their family from their work. But, dear colleagues, our problem is not only a low minimum wage and 42,000 employees with a minimum wage. What about the 50 or more thousand employees who today receive salaries that are only slightly higher than the minimum wage? And you've forgotten about all these employees with the proposed amendment to the law. Therefore, higher net wages for all our citizens and citizens are not in the interest of the proposer nor of the ruling coalition. You have it written down that the proposed amendment takes into account the principle of equal treatment of workers, but I wonder where and how, since the law only raises wages for individual employees and causes more people to agree to the minimum wage. The negative consequences of the legislation adopted will ultimately be felt even by recipients of social transfers, which can be found in the second income class and thus will be deprived of individual social transfers for the time being and thus ultimately obtain only the state. We have been in a period of economic growth for several years, so we would expect a serious government to set up a plan for 2019 to raise wages for all employees. It is necessary to commit to pay, of course, the minimum wage, the payment for the work done and not the social transfer. It must ensure a decent payment and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will repeatedly advocate ensuring that all workers receive a fair payment for the work done. Therefore, the amount of the minimum wage should be placed in a broader context, i.e. in the whole salary system, where there must be a difference between social benefits and minimum wage. The fact is that the government has already managed to break the ratio between minimum wage, average salary, pension and social transfers. Inadequate wage policy on the one hand and a flawed social policy on the other have led to the fact that wage relations are completely broken. The relationship between social transfers and payment for work, which is now fully evaluated, is also undermined. That is why all employees deserve to see their work become valuable again, not to propose and consider amendments to legislation that ultimately benefit only and only the state, not its citizens or, in the case at hand, all employees. In our parliamentary group, we are aware that today's wages are truly devalued and need to be increased, but certainly not only on the basis of the burden of the economy, but rather by lower taxation of work, which has been too high in Slovenia and has been reducing international competitiveness for years and years. On the other hand, in practice, there is a violation of labour rights also and in particular because of the legal impreciseness and complexity of the minimum wage system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have sought a solution and proposed that instead of a monthly minimum wage, consideration should be given to the introduction of a minimum hourly rate, as this would create clearer rules that would ultimately bring more transparency to employees, especially fairer pay and reward for the work done. Unfortunately, the proposed solution did not receive sufficient support. After all, we know that in such a sensitive issue, social dialogue is still important and necessary so that the level of minimum wage is determined in a constructive agreement between trade unions, employers and the Government. Finally, the Government reminds you of this in its opinion, so in view of the many government comments made on the proposed legislative changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will continue to follow with interest your debate on the continuation of the changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mrs Jerca Korča, you will be given the floor on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u16	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! Again in this place, I wonder if we have a consensus on what kind of country we want to live in. I grew up in the spirit and thought that it is firmly rooted in us, that we want to nurture and strengthen a solidarity model for the development of Slovenia. I am convinced that such a model is good, fair and brings high quality of life to all citizens and citizens. By our work and active age creation, we care for all school-bound children and all the elderly at the age of receiving a pension. Concern is also directed at all those who, for such and other reasons, are unable to work. By paying taxes and contributions, we allow health care to be accessible to all by educating good staff in public schools and maintaining public infrastructure. And this is solidarity that we must strengthen to remain a normal society. Solidarity also means that a small percentage of people do not overemphasize capital at the expense of exploiting cheap labour, so that the fruits of the good work of the company are also felt by those who are indispensable and integral parts of creating added value. In the wild capitalist world, it is important that solidarity also finds its place in the economy. I believe that with these words, many people are denied the thought that it is our desire to awaken the system to survive for a long time. No, it's not like that! Too many successful companies are already focusing their model on strengthening the importance of social and environmental responsibility. Such companies have a clear vision of development and include all employees as indispensable parts in achieving business objectives. They are aware that they can achieve this only with motivated employees who are properly rewarded for their work, working in an enabling and safe environment and in appropriate working conditions. And look at how by chance these kind of companies are the ones that are leading in their industries and who manage to maintain good business results over the years. Such companies are not already seeking their objective in maximising profits for the cost of reducing workers' rights and lowering labour costs. On the other hand, I believe that everyone is aware that there are also companies and entrepreneurs who build their entire business model on exploiting their employees and making laws. In these, human greed and the desire to make a profit is stronger than a long-term vision and a stable business, and it is about these in the media that we are all too often hearing sad stories about poorly paid and spent employees, whose stings these entrepreneurs in the public are portrayed as capable and successful managers. And all together in this country and in this hall, we must acknowledge that they also exist and, sadly, will always exist. I wonder how we want our companies to compete on the market: low wages and low social contributions or innovative approaches and high added value. Where do you think you're looking for us legislators in all this? In order to at least legally determine the minimum amount to be received by each full-time employee, we have already received reports of grave interference and political interference in the economy. In this place, forgive me for my partial cynicism, but does the state interfere with the construction of roads and bridges, the distribution of subsidies and the education of personnel? The country must watch and see the whole of which is an integral part of the economy. Part of it is the recipients of the minimum wage. Since the rise did not happen on its own, the policy has assessed that it is time to regulate this with the amendment of the law. In all of this, the most information can be told. According to the Ministry of Labour, net net profit of companies has increased almost 19 times in recent years! From €169 million in 2013 to almost €3.2 billion in 2016. This was already €3.6 billion in 2017. And the indispensable part of making this profit was also employed. On average, companies would spend 0.6% of their profits to raise minimum wages, with changes in the direction of higher productivity being well known to all. A raise in 2019 would amount to 28.69 euros per month in the employee's wallet. Pay would increase 69 000 984 employees, of whom 34 000 701 employees in the private sector today receive minimum wage. The minimum wage is set almost all these years below the poverty risk threshold. So we are faced with the fact that some in our country have not been paid enough for their work to reach the poverty threshold. And all the above and more other arguments are the reason to reject, entirely justified, the evidence of grave interference at the level of the minimum wage. From my birth to today, employers and employees have not been able to agree on the minimum wage. Social dialogue in this area is still important. However, we must be aware that we have never raised the minimum wage in Slovenia with the consent of employers. In January 2018, an intensive discussion took place among the social partners on the proposal of the current Minister of Labour to raise the minimum wage by approximately the amount set out in this proposal. The unions then insisted on a much higher percentage of the raise, while the employers, logically, insisted on significantly lower. The social partners also had the opportunity to speak at a meeting of the Economic and Social Council on 16 November 2018. There was no substantive debate there. Therefore, it cannot be expected that this time the representatives of the economy will be enthusiastic about the proposed amendments to raise the minimum wage. We cannot fully accept the lack of dialogue. We are always talking about raising the minimum wage only when proposals for laws are tabled, which are later seen as an arbitrary determination of the minimum wage without the consent of the social partners. I have a feeling that it will simply never be the right time to discuss raising the minimum wage. We believe that the time and space for all public discussions, opinions and analyses has been sufficient. We have assessed the need to move from words to actions and move forward. And today it is the first step – the first to consider the law. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca we fully support the raising of the minimum wage. It is our wish, however, to immediately approach dialogue and find the best solution to create a formula for calculating minimum wage. It is envisaged that in 2021 a formula will be introduced to calculate the minimum wage, which will ensure that the latter does not slip below 12 per cent of the last estimate of the minimum cost of living. We can agree with this, as the payment for the work done must not be merely an amount intended for the great survival. We also believe that the introduction of such a formula ensures the predictability and stability of the economic environment, which will certainly make business planning easier for employers in the future. We have some open questions and concerns, like some other parliamentary groups, around the elimination of the remaining wage supplements. In doing so, our desire is clear; that there will be an appropriate solution in the social dialogue that will allow employers to adapt and will not cause them too much problems needlessly. We are convinced that wherever there is will, there is also a way. For social dialogue, however, we need two ears to listen and a little sense to understand the interlocutor. In social dialogue, impact analyses, development strategies, consequences calculations, welfare documents, including letters of the economy – and unfortunately all too often in this Chamber – many of the testimony of people from real life is lost. Those people whose reality is number six, three, eight wholes, four, two hammers on the ATM; whose reality is that after payment of the necessary positions they count the remainder at the level of one average manager's meal. “I work in a large multinational as an agency worker, under contract for six months. Of course, contracts have been in circulation for several years. When my contract expires, I go to another agency and have another job. My work is done in three shifts. I get a minimum wage for my job. I'm doing a cleaning job at the cleaners. Every day, I clean up more objects at different locations. The contract says that my employee is 8 hours a day, and yet I don't remember the day I didn't work hard for over 12 hours a day. I have to work not for my own sake, I would have survived, I want to give my child at least the minimum conditions to be trained, to have a child and to become an honest citizen with a perspective and a profession. With regard to violations of labour law, I am silent because I fear for my job. I receive a minimum wage for my work, including all holidays, afternoon work, work through a normal worker. I work at a construction company. My day starts at 5:00 a.m. with the construction site and ends around 8:00 p.m. with the arrival of home. The way to and from the construction site doesn't count to me during working hours, the same is true for lunch. I get 830.60 euros for my work. According to the boss's instructions, I have to pay 150 euros for my modest room, with a specific tenant. Those are the rules in our company. I work with pleasure, that's all that keeps me up. Taking care of the motionless and powerless is my mission. The job is not easy, but the smiles of the elderly give me the will and the motivation. I don't get a minimum wage for my full-month hard work." Respected and respected! These are stories that should echo in our heads every time we look at things only through numbers and balances. Members and Members of the List of Marjan Šarc believe that the proposal for a law amending the Law on Minimum Pay pursues the right and just objectives, so we will support the proposal in the first reading. In this place, I also call on employers and workers to realize that we are all on the same boat and that coordinated rowing is essential for our boat to move in the same direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u17	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal to increase the minimum wage above the minimum cost of living, to identify the allowances from the minimum wage scale and to determine the formula or model by which the minimum wage amount would be fixed and coordinated in the future. Respected and respected! The last major increase in the minimum wage was seen by Slovenian workers almost a decade ago, during the first Social Democratic Government, which in the midst of the worst crisis showed a great deal of courage and raised the minimum wage by more than a quarter. Since then, a number of things have happened, except for one thing: there has been no mass closure of jobs and forgives, and the crisis has irreparably taken many jobs away from us, but none has been lost because of this courageous step. Even after the elimination of certain allowances from the minimum wage two years ago, none of the unsuspecting forecasts were made. This proves that a decent minimum wage is by no means a threat to economic competitiveness. Economic growth, employment growth, employment activities and productivity, added value to the employee, growth in exports and business profits, all of which are indisputable indicators in recent years that the Slovenian economy is doing better again. He is also doing well, especially because of the work and knowledge of the employees, because of the effort and abandonment of the workers. All of these indicators show a few percent annual growth, which is not nearly followed by wage growth. So the economy is recovering and making progress, but unfortunately it does not show a willingness to share the fruits of recovery with its employees. Therefore, respected and respected, the minimum wage is one of the main pre-election themes. That is why in recent elections, in the vast majority, people have given support to customers who have supported the rise in minimum wages. We live in democracy and in democracy has the power of the people. At the elections, the people said, "Minimum wages should be raised." Therefore, the policy objective is not to continue fruitless debates on the subject of whether or not, the policy task is to find the answer to how we could do so. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal before us today has an ambitious objective: with some gradual increases to ensure a net minimum wage of €700, to exclude from its definition various supplements and to define a clear definition or calculation for the future, by which the amount of the minimum wage can be determined and coordinated. While we could talk long and wide about the details of the solutions proposed, we will not change the essentials. Changes in the definition, height and method of coordination of minimum wage are urgently needed. The specific details must, however, be harmonised in the social dialogue, and in any case we will meet with them soon, in the second reading of the bill. This orientation is based on a clear belief: we cannot and do not want to develop economies in business models whose competitiveness is based on exploitation and poorly paid workers; we want companies to develop in us whose business models achieve a sufficiently high added value so that workers can receive not only a minimal but a fair share for their efforts, knowledge and denial. In public, we can monitor more or less loud attempts by employers' organisations and capitalists to convince the public and the state of the damage to our proposals. Even a long list of companies has emerged on our tables claiming to be severely affected by the rise in minimum wages. In particular, it is regrettable that on the list of companies which, through their interest organisations, oppose the raising of the minimum wage, there are also companies that publicly and rightly boast high added value to the employee. If such a list contains companies whose employees generate more than €50,000 of annual added value to the employee, their managers and owners feel that they cannot pay even a quarter of that amount, then something is wrong with these capitalists and managers, not with workers who can create such added value. We will discuss this further in the debate. True, Slovenian average salary is not high and the difference between minimum wage and average wage is low. Any rise in the minimum wage would reduce this difference and, of course, it is difficult to motivate people with different responsibilities and performance if this does not also reflect wage differences. However, this does not change the fact that the current amount of minimum wage is too low. If today we are more concerned about the recipient’s dissatisfaction with the minimum wage than with the survival of the one who cannot approach the lower limit of that amount by honest work, we must seriously ask ourselves about our humanity and our priorities. That is why we need to take people's signal seriously, and that is how stakeholders in social dialogue need to understand it. Their task must also be to find a solution to raise the minimum wage in a suitable way. This can lead to such desirable predictability for the economy. The debate on the Economic and Social Council could and should lead to a clear timetable for action. On the inside of this debate is the possibility of trampling on the possible excessive edges of this proposal and agreeing on a concrete method of implementation. I therefore call on all stakeholders here to take social dialogue seriously. Many of the opponents' arguments to the current amount of the minimum wage are thus similar to the opposition to the introduction of the tax registers, if you remember. At the time of their introduction, they were threatened with the apocalypse, with forgiveness, with the closure of businesses. Today, after their introduction, they were only able to observe the growth of tax revenues and almost 9 000 to new health and pension insured, which, of course, employers had to employ because of their supervision. Let me respond to those, particularly the right opposition, who today, in a strong concern for their public image, recognise that the current minimum wage is indeed too low and should be raised, but this would be easier if, for example, the swallowing state reduced the workload and thus made it possible to pay higher wages. No, no, that's how we strongly reject diversion. This is not a debate today on whether taxes and contributions are too high, the debate is today because the existing minimum wage is unfairly low and this needs to be changed. Not by blaming a country that cuts too much; already a quick comparison with other countries shows that it is not so true, but by ensuring that honest work is paid; including taxes and contributions that feed solidarity systems and provide workers with public health care, pension insurance, public education for their children and so on. This too is part of a fair payment of honest work. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will therefore unanimously support today's proposal for a conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ms Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! The questions about what, and above all what, a decent payment for the work done by our citizens and citizens, have been the subject of professional and political debates for more than a good decade. This is an essential question and the answer should be given by the Institute of Social Dialogue, which we all like to attach great importance to. Indeed, social dialogue should be one of the indicators of the success of our society and, above all, of the social state. Today's topic on a functioning, social and, above all, value system would not be addressed in this house, as it would have been successfully managed by the social partners themselves in the constitutional and legal contexts through their formal means of negotiation. We have repeatedly warned about this, and we are also reminding cities of this today. People deserve decent pay for their work and this is also an essential reason why we have contributed signatures to the parliamentary procedure in the SMC Group. Surely, all those who sit in sentries feel the same way. The fact that the current minimum wage is only two euros higher than the poverty risk threshold is eloquent in itself and there is nothing to add. Our main criticism today is that the proposal unfortunately represents an attempt to bypass the already relaxed social dialogue. The Republic of Slovenia is a signatory to the International Labour Organisation Convention on Minimum Wages, which sets out the obligation to consult fully with the social partners regarding the establishment and coordination of minimum wage. This is also determined by the internal rules of social dialogue in our country, which we have set ourselves. Dear first-signed candidates, your argument that this is a bill that is not intended for social dialogue does not hold back a serious democratic opinion. While it is true that so far the rises in minimum wages, even if coordinated, have not always been harmonised. But this does not dissuade us from working towards constructive social dialogue and reaching the broadest possible consensus between the social partners. In the SMC Group, we do not agree that there is no need to coordinate solutions, as employers have in no way agreed with the proposals. This isn't the right way. In the same breath, we stress that it is not good that the first meeting of the Economic and Social Council, due to one of the actors, took place without a substantive debate on the proposed solutions. Maintaining social dialogue is crucial for Slovenia and we call on all actors involved to do so in the next steps. We cannot raise minimum wage without social dialogue. If there is no change in the context of social dialogue, unilateral intervention by different political parties will become a practice. Our key substantive comments are addressed in paragraphs 1 and 3 of the proposed amendment. Identification of all remaining additives from 1. 1. 2019 is excessive in terms of a predictable and stable economic environment and some other effects. In particular, we need to pay particular attention to the establishment of a work-life allowance, as it could mean a reduction in the competitiveness of older workers currently receiving minimum wages. This would further exacerbate their position in the labour market. With regard to the proposed formula, we believe that it is not a problem to attach the amount of minimum wage to the amount of minimum cost of living. This is even meaningful in keeping the income-stimulating relationship between working and inactive persons. The problem is that the arbitration of the proposed formula is already completely destroying social dialogue. Therefore, our appeal is to try within the envisaged minimum wage coordination formula to foresee the possibility of social dialogue. In the SMC Group, all stakeholders are urged to make maximum efforts to draw closer to each other in the coming weeks. Threats by cancelling collective agreements on the one hand or protest meetings on the other are not the right way to address this issue. Applicants will also have to listen to concerns about individual solutions. Sometimes you have to step back so you can step forward. If I can sum it up. Identification of all remaining additives from 1. 1. 2019 is not acceptable. The proposed formula in the currently proposed dictatorship is also not appropriate due to the pre-emptive elimination of social dialogue. We expect to resolve these open issues in the next stages of the legislative process, and today we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u21	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Miha Kordish on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Four years ago, Levica entered Parliament for the first time. From the very beginning, our goal is to improve the lives of all. By raising the minimum wage, we realize one of the foundations of our promise. A fairer payment for the work done is the basic condition of any social well-being; a condition not met by the Slovenian company at the moment. People work, but they can't live on their jobs. A minimum wage raise is a way to overcome criminal inequality, so we have already taken the initiative to raise it three times in Levica. EUR 700 net, excluding all allowances, regularly raising and equalising the first basic salary with a minimum, these are our basic requirements. And they start at the very height. The minimum wage, which is modestly above the poverty risk threshold or barely covers the employee’s life costs, is criminal and unfair. It is unacceptable that people work, or live in poverty, or barely connect the beginning and the end of the month. Therefore, wages will rise to €667 net in a month and €700 net from 1 January 2020. We also make sure that the minimum wage will never again be so low that it will be preceded by poverty. Since 2021, it will always have to exceed the minimum cost of living by at least 20%. The law eliminates another fundamental injustice. Now, instead of wage increases over a minimum, workers prefer to lower their basics and then cover the difference with supplements. And even though they've spent 30, 40 years working together, it doesn't go anywhere for the employees. The same applies to particularly difficult working conditions. With this legalised exploitation practice, it is necessary to cut off. All allowances must be included in the minimum wage. This proposal, which I have just outlined, is the result of the negotiations of the Left with the coalition five. The proposed solution was supported by 52 Members with their signatures, supported by trade unions and about 30 humanitarian charities. The Ministry of Labour also stated that the proposal, I will quote, "follows the professional objectives in the field of minimum wage and establishes a meaningful relationship between the incomes of working and inactive", end of the quote, and that the proposed amounts raise minimum wages, continue to be quoted, "referred appropriately to the macroeconomic movements cited in the autumn report by Umar". Here we also have the Ministry of Finance, which is usually not known as a champion of labour rights, but it has been written that in this case we are talking about the most vulnerable group of workers not only from an economic point of view but also from a health and social perspective, and that the raising of minimum wages cannot be opposed. You really can't argue with that lift. We have enjoyed economic growth for several years in a row. The winners jump into the sky. €3.6 billion in 2017 alone. At the same time, the wages are stepping in place. Well, wealth only rules for capital owners. Therefore, the threats and fears of employers are unfounded and, above all, non-solid to workers. Negotiating them alone and exclusively greed. While swimming in plentiful profits, the capital of the employees denies a fairer piece of cake, with all the created value coming from work, whether it is done with hands or heads. Let us also mention the structure of the Slovenian economy. Management does not or does not know how to translate into a developmental breakthrough of final products, creativity and high technology, but insists on profitability at the expense of paid work. A minimum wage raise would force managers to build profitable niches instead of increased exploitation with smart development and investment. Trade centres in every village – this is not a record of economic development, but of the semi-colonial sub-contracting status of our economy. With January 1st, the salary will rise to 70,000 people. The application of the formula is envisaged for two years later. It's a delay, but it's a step in the right direction that we negotiated in Levica during the coalition talks. To conclude the following. Right-wing companies are not only determined by the amount of the worker's salary, they are mainly determined by production relations and therefore the working thing depends on whether employees take control and administration of the economy or not. The higher minimum wages of these relations are not questioned, but it allows for the first prerequisite required by the right: a better payment of work is a repayer of honor. But in Levic, we will fulfill our mission when the authorities return to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, he wants to have the word "proposer." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, again. First of all, I want to thank all the debaters. As far as I am concerned, I think that with the support of the parliamentary groups we are close to the constitutional majority, close to 60 votes. I am very pleased that, after 32 humanitarian and charitable organisations, with the broad support of civil society, with the support of the State Council or the Commission of the State Council, the last time that 5 members voted in favour, only 2 were against, I think we are also coming to a very, very broad consensus in the State, that the time has come when the minimum wage in Slovenia needs to be corrected and brought closer to economic trends in a way that will enable a decent life. I am particularly pleased that we have heard today, after many years, the voice of workers on a minimum wage or those on the lowest wages in Parliament as well. I have said many times that these workers do not usually have their own interest associations, do not have unions, are not organized and are therefore not heard on television, except in what shows of social problems and exploitation of workers. If you talk to agency workers, you'll understand why they're not organized into unions. Since the agencies are transferring them for one month to this job, the second month is to another job and constantly changes the environment, employees, their contacts and they have no possibility of connecting. Technical personnel, cleaners, security guards, and so forth usually share a very, very similar fate. And their wages are often already essentially set below the minimum, only with the payment of allowances do they get to the minimum wage. Here I have to refer to a debate that went in the direction of why the work-life allowances were not exempt from working conditions, business and work awards as early as 2015. This was a wish then, and we proposed an amendment in Levica to do so, but then a consensus was formed to eliminate only part of the supplements. The reason was similar to the one we are listening to today; that this would undermine the wage relations, increase the burden on work and businesses and that this would result in costs that would be difficult to justify for the economy. We heard the same story in 2015 and the same problems with social dialogue were then. Indeed, every time we talk about minimum wage, one party in the Economic and Social Council is placed on the trenches, and these are employers' associations. Unfortunately. So now and so it was 2015 and so it was in 2010 when there was the last major increase in minimum wage. Nevertheless, we must be aware that the minimum wage is the minimum exploitation threshold set by the National Assembly, i.e. Members and Members. That's the salary we set. We set the criteria, the minimum criteria by which people in this country have to be paid, all the other salaries are, of course, a matter of social dialogue. We have to read the minimum wage here not as an absolute shift, but as the beginning of social dialogue, the thing is that wages are fixed or aligned with economic indicators. We have heard earlier that profits already in 2016 amounted to €3.2 billion in this state; they already amounted to €3.6 billion in 2017. So, they're jumping up and down. Unfortunately, on the other hand, they do not achieve this trend. And it is our job, including our mission as Members and Members of Parliament, to give an incentive by raising the minimum wage to begin to adapt to this trend. To make use of this second half of economic growth – Umar says that we hit the top last year – to repair wages and to correct those social injustices that have accumulated in the last decade of the crisis. In view of the support we feel in this room today, I think we are on the right track. So many introductory remarks to thank and support all Members and Members of Parliament who have supported efforts to raise the minimum wage with their signatures and which you have supported today in your views of the groups of Members. I look forward to a fruitful and constructive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Jože Lenart. Get ready, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, President. Dear fellows! Yesterday my colleague asked me what I thought about raising the minimum wage, and in the second sentence he said, "Oh, you're coming from the economy, I'm not gonna ask you, I'm going to ask somebody else." Today I have an opportunity before this meeting to give my opinion publicly. Today we have a proposal from the Left Group, supported by the 13th Slovenian Government with individual reservations, to raise the minimum wage to €700 net – at the final stage, of course. This is an increase of almost 62 euros or less than 10 per cent. Such an increase is also supported by 13 Members of the Marjan Sarca Group. A minimum wage raise will allow the slightly more decent life of the worst paid workers in Slovenia, one of the fundamental obligations of the coalition contract. However, I have in my second hand a document, an invitation yesterday to the 13th summit of the Slovenian economy, which took place last night at the Brdo Congress Centre near Kranj. Participants, economists and representatives of the government have together sought a formula for success for economic excellence. They chose and decided on the most urgent measures to achieve the objectives set, as they said. These targets, set until 2025, are the medium-term period for 7 years: €60,000 added value to the employee. This is an increase of more than 35 per cent or a good EUR 15,000. The second measure, which is the target of EUR 2 000 300, pays the average gross wage per employee. This is an increase of 35 per cent or 600 euros. However, we must not overlook that the pay is an integral part of the added value. And as a third objective – EUR 50 billion of exports, which is, of course, based on high added value activities. We can only achieve them with excellence, they have stressed, and this requires changes in the environment and in businesses, measures by which many already achieve excellence, high added value and high quality of life. Isn't that wonderful? The 13th government and the 13th top of the Slovenian economy are as one – they set goals for achieving a high quality of life. Here, however, I have another document or problem at this time, which is not in line with the objective of the 13th government and the 13th summit of the Slovenian economy. This is an open letter from employers addressed to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia yesterday, Members of the National Assembly, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Minister of Economic Development and Technology and Minister of Finance. For signed employers, the rise in minimum wage is unacceptable due to the enormous rise in wages due to the new definition of minimum wage. Because of the broken salary ratio and the balance sheet, in their view, and because the state sets a wage policy for the economy. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I sincerely hope that the leadership of the 13th Summit of the Slovenian economy has not been informed of the letter sent to the 13th Slovenian Government in an open letter to the group of employers. Especially because I know and appreciate the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the winner of the Year. Its values are also excellence, high-level objectives in the economy and high values for the quality of life of both its employees and the prominent and successful company that runs it, as well as for Slovenian workers and citizens. I began to worry that the formula for economic excellence, which was placed on Brdo yesterday, would amount to €60,000 in added value to the employee and €2,000 in average gross wage to the employee, would only be achieved by raising wages in the highest grades and leading workers and would forget those with the lowest wages. For this reason, it will probably be right to involve policy and protect workers with the lowest wages and to confirm today in the National Assembly a proposal for further consideration to raise the minimum wage to EUR 700 net in the final deadline. You know, I can't imagine excellence, but above all the high quality of life without the proposed correction of the minimum wage and the long-term monitoring of minimum wage objectives above the poverty threshold. A few months ago, I was working up in Koroška in a nice company. The only serious problem was the shortage of workers. For this reason, we even had to cancel our new business. Look, Koroška is a border area and workers are looking for better working conditions across the border in Austria. This is, of course, also a problem elsewhere in northern Slovenia and also in Slovenia, that young people seek better conditions abroad. By going to Parliament, of course, I have given the floor to my colleagues and to all of the Koros to take up the minimum wage and better working conditions and fair social services. I don't just give the word if I'm not sure about it, that's the first thing. My word has always been the law to me, and that is what the Korosks know me. So, my dear Carinthias, I will do everything I can to fulfill what I have promised. Dearly beloved, we seriously doubt the coordination of the group of employers and the 13th summit of the Slovenian economy in achieving the high objectives of the Slovenian economy. Raising the minimum wage is an essential measure here to achieve such high goals in the Slovenian economy, especially now that they themselves warn that the global economy is cooling off. I am also convinced that the 13th summit of the Slovenian economy has not set its bold goals in the activities of the labour intensive industry, where the added value of 30 000 and less is achieved to the worker, but that it aims at high-tech activities where added value can be achieved to the employee who is strong over 50 000. We have long ago found that there is no effect if we save social and invest tax money in solving such activities with low added value and minimum wages that do not have solutions in the long run. Although it was difficult to decide that we had to decide on the liquidation of such companies, today it turned out to be the right thing to do, other investors came with a more promising future and economic growth in Slovenia began to grow rapidly. I believe that the objective of the 13th Summit of the Slovenian economy is to focus on such activities, where it is possible to achieve a targeted added value with higher wages that guarantee a high quality of life as one of our common objectives. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor and Mr Franz Kramar is being prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I certainly am trying to find some common denominator in this debate. As we have heard so far, the common denominator is that we all want a state of prosperity, a state of prosperity. We want rich people to live well. See, in New Slovenia too, we want the vision of Slovenia to be realized, which was adopted by the government in the previous term, where it says somewhere that by 2030 we will all be happy. Who doesn't want to do that? Everyone's happy. Of course, this path to a state of prosperity is certainly not easy. That is why we say in New Slovenia that we need a third great social, national, if you want, consensus. If the first consensus was the independent state of Slovenia, if the second consensus was Slovenia's entry into the European Union, then, if you want to take over the euro, then today, for the society of the future, we need again a third national consensus on how to reach this society, this country of prosperity. I agree with colleague Masha Kociper that this law on minimum wage is probably also meant by the way he came to the National Assembly, the opportunity to open the debate and answer the questions if it is even possible to do so in one debate, what kind of country do we want to live in. I agree. We believe that our model of economy, as we are in New Slovenia, is a social market model of the economy, so it is probably not acceptable for all. If it is not acceptable for the majority, but another model will have to be presented, we will discuss it and we will take such measures. For important solutions, Prime Minister Šarec also answered him enthusiastically when I asked him last Monday. He told me not to worry about taking any action overnight. And continued and reiterated that it takes time to prepare reform measures. Only when the proposals are prepared will they, the Government, present them to the public and deal with them in cooperation with entrepreneurs, employers, social partners and so on. Šarec recalled an OEC study that showed that Slovenia is out of work with regard to over-average workload. In this part he sees room for improvement, “tax reform will go towards a smaller workload and a slightly higher capital burden.” Yeah, it's true, we're not talking about tax today. We are talking about a minimum wage, which is also agreed that it is good that the minimum wage is higher. But what do we gain by doing so or by losing something? Let's lose, ladies and gentlemen, the middle class we think is a driver of development. Yeah, every worker contributes something, everyone's a driver. But with all these measures, when we actually, as Gini's coefficient tells us, somehow squeeze this society into a very narrow belt. Soon we will all be on a minimum wage and the announcement will then be made by the candidate for the MP: Members to the minimum. Soon we'll all be on minimum wage. Is that right or wrong? If most of the answer is that it is right that we are an egalitarian society, which is really the most egalitarian society in the EU, I am just adding – you will be angry, sorry – egalitarian in poverty, not in prosperity, because we are saying that we want to be a state of prosperity. Well, we're not, which is true. We're egalitarian in poverty. We, Nova Slovenija, have proposed some measures — yes, in the previous mandate and also now — to relieve the burden. Yesterday we spoke, raise general income relief – you rejected us. We said, "Let's cut the highest rate of income, get it from 50 to 43 percent, that's worth 15 million," said Dr. Bertonzel – you hit. We have proposed a social slipper to each of us with a minimum wage of 50 euros per month more in our pockets – you beat us. We suggested a social hat. With many of you, colleagues and colleagues, I talk in the hallway, you say we'll have to take a bite in this direction – you run us over. What's left? What we point out most here is that the Members of New Slovenia go beyond the dialogue announced by Prime Minister Sarec: “Nothing will happen without dialogue.” There's nothing delayed yet, so I guess he'll go, you said. It is likely that this law will survive the first reading today, I can say that with certainty. Will the government then say, okay, but from here on out there must be social dialogue and will order the coalition Members that there will be nothing without social dialogue or agreement between the social partners? That's a hypothetical question now. We, on the right, are often shown by default how ugly we are, how we favor only capitalists, only employers to push workers – even this is obvious to us – but this is some folklore, it is allowed to be obvious to others. It hurts, you know. In 2008, after many years of left-wing governments, we passed the Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit. He brought the late Bajuk to Parliament in February 2008. If it is not implemented and why is it not implemented, is New Slovenia now responsible? We have a marriage – where is the government? But, super Mr. Secretary of State, you have been sitting in the government for a long time – why do you think that this Act on the participation of workers in profits is not being implemented? We also suggested that the 13th and 14th wages, the Christmas Eve, if you want to – you can't talk about it – the Christmases – be significantly less burdened or even gross for the net, but the net for the gross – you hit us. Something small has happened in the previous term in this area, but I don't think it's enough. If someone says they're a social party, that's why they support a minimum wage raise, then it's a schizophrenic situation. Is Social Welfare Paying? There's something wrong here. Key [[…]] Of course it is. A colleague of Jerca’s listed some tragic stories, of course hundreds of them — your heart breaking. I'm aware of that, too. People come to the office and tell me – I don't have a word! We have organs for that. Yes, we do! They're not working. I think your client's coming from a lady who's very good at inspection. Did you send her to this lady, this cleaning lady? I was heartbroken when you read it. Have you sent it yet? I hope so, because you have this duty to send her to the employer who's squeezing this cleaner. It is interesting – I greatly appreciate a good businessman with outstanding results and is written by Mr Vojmir Urlep. Many times in previous years, I have quoted him, perhaps because Lek has set up a very important plant in Lendava, which is the main employer in Pomour – we also have some other companies – and it is interesting, so I am laughing that we have had a few encounters together and we have talked the same way and we have not been apart from each other since the meetings, we have yet to discuss and discuss. Now I feel like we're on different shores. Mr. Urlep, come here once, you're the Secretary of State, you're sitting next to Marian Sharpe, and you're explaining to us whether we're reading something wrong. Vojmir Urlep: “Sindicalis Lukić lifts my pressure!” in 2014 “The medicine will still work if the government improves the country’s competitiveness. Our competitiveness has been seriously launched mainly due to the heavy burden of working in Slovenia, and the new government must change this as soon as possible.” Vojmir Urlep is a new government in 2014 – Cerarjev. What happened, I don't know, but I still appreciate it. I still appreciate it. Excellent sir! You know, I appreciate the workers, and I also appreciate the employers and the managers. If this were so simple, you, the proponents, would certainly set up a company to show: you see, this is a model, and this is a model of a Slovenian company that will ensure the well-being of Slovenia. But it's probably not that easy to set up a company and then drive it successfully. Colleagues and colleagues, I think there was a little too much commotion today about Slovenian economists, including managers, if they don't know and so on. I am not their lawyer, if you already consider me a lawyer, then I am a lawyer of the Slovenian economy, and these are employers and workers, the social market economy. We are not inclined in this way, as are many among you. However, we want this minimum wage story to end with some agreement between key players in this area; it is said, among the social partners. Then it'll be the right solution, then there'll be no tension and we'll all be better off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You'll have at least one response, and that's a proposal. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I'm going to argue a little bit – I'm not before – with Mr Horvath's position, and I'm going to have a debate. First: you say we need a third major social consensus in Slovenia. I think we got him. Today in the Chamber you can see that two-thirds of the members of the House are in favour of the law, a third of you will vote at your own discretion or we will see how long you will abstain. I think the consensus in this room is huge. If you ask people if they support the definition of a minimum wage, after which someone who works full-time should receive at least 20 percent more than the minimum cost of living, I think you will get a plebiscite result, somewhere 80-, 90% support. You can test it. There's a big consensus about this. The consensus was reflected in the elections, and the consensus also reflected in the coalition contract, where five parties to the coalition agreement recognized the proposal, which comes from our party, from the Left, as well as part of its platform. And consensus is reflected today when I think it can reach at least seven parties in this House. That's how I think you have this big consensus. This consensus is: work must be paid with dignity; wages must follow economic growth; economic recovery must also reach the least paid in that country. There is a huge consensus on this issue in this country. Second, when you say things change overnight. We explained the dynamics earlier: the increase of up to €700 will be in two steps; the additions – we are talking with the Ministry – will be eliminated in several phases; the formula will enter into force in 2021, saying, “this night”, which will take two to three years. Two to three years will last that night, nothing happens overnight, it happens gradually. And businesses will have a huge time and a fully predictable business environment where they will be able to assess their costs and adapt their business. There won't be any shock, no hypnosis overnight, we're all going gradually. Third, when you say that now this compression, as you call it, has now been pushed up so much lower wages that we lose the middle class. I think your reading is completely wrong. It's not the middle class that makes 700 euros, please! We're pushing our wages up here to even get the middle class. As far as I'm concerned, the middle class is concentrated there at least around the average wage, not the people on the minimum wage. The middle class is not broken by wage compression, as you say, but we often hear employers' representatives, middle class broke an ideology called neoliberalism. I know this sounds like a floscule now, because it's been said so many times, but I'm going to give you a concrete historical case. French President Valery Giscard d’Estaing said in the late 1970s: “Now we are all middle class.” Somehow they were included in the social state in a way that they had a decent job, that unemployment in France was almost not that they had about the same access to health, education, social services of the country and, on the other hand, wealth was very much combined with very sharp taxes on capital and extremely high incomes. In this sense, he said: “We have all become one big broad middle class.” And they were back then. In all of Western Europe, if you go to see, they had much more socialism than we have today in Slovenia. What happened later in the next decades, we know. This middle class has been broken down, on the one hand we get, as we have in Slovenia, extremely low tax capital, we get a number of districts for capital owners in paying taxes; yachts, if you like, on the Adriatic are multiplying, on the other hand, the number of recipients of minimum wages is increasing. It's a middle-class break! What we are hearing here to do with both payroll and tax policy is to re-create this great middle class, which d’Estaing was talking about at the end of 70. The last thing you say is that social parties are called those who support the raising of minimum wages, and then you wonder if the minimum wage is social assistance. Of course not. Workers or jobs are the only one that creates value. Without human intervention, the value of the company cannot be increased. I think that around here are almost all economic theories agree, and the work is the one that creates value. Of course, we have a very depraved view of the economy by some economic chambers. For example, Sonja Šmuc wanted to show the last time that the minimum wage was some kind of social aid when she gave this metaphor. She said: “Extending minimum wage is a completely wrong step. This is about as if on a plane that crashes, they first give oxygen to the child and then only to themselves.” But it's the other way around. It's their narrative, not ours. I don't know why we have to operate on the metaphors of planes that crash at this time. What I want to say is that in reality the economy looks like this: we do not have employers and workers. Employers are businesses and businesses paying income to two groups – workers and capital owners. Here there has been major discrimination and the main source of discontent and social inequality in our society. This will have to be cut down, but first we need to agree on who the employer is. Employers are companies and not capital owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Do you have a replica, Mr. Horvat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I do not wish to politicise; but we can agree on such a different economic theory and defend it, but we also have some economic practice. Once again, Comrade Luke, our biggest criticism is because there is no dialogue; and you say it is consensus. I was talking about two historic Slovenian major national consensus, not parliamentary consensus. You know how we reached a country of our own – we went to the referendum. You know how we achieved Slovenia's entry into the EU and NATO, which you don't like – we went to the referendum. Well, let's leave it at that. That's the consensus we want. Not here. Look, if we look at countries with minimum wage, I'm afraid I have data from OECD 2014. With minimum wage. They have the law: Belgium, France, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom. Then we look at European countries without minimum wage: Austria, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland. No, I don't. Now let us look at the average percentage of young unemployed people. Where they have a minimum wage law, there is a percentage of the young unemployed 29.5 per cent, where they do not have a minimum wage, and in those countries the average is 16.8. What's more? And general unemployment. In countries with minimum wage, the unemployment rate is 12,7, but where they do not have minimum wage, the unemployment rate is 6,8 alone. Look, that's not a theory, that's a practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u33	The motioner would like a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u34	Thank you. I'm just going to comment on that last part. Slovenia – and this is practice – has a minimum wage and unemployment is currently 5.2%; it is said to be lower than in those countries you describe.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u35	Thank you. Now I find we can proceed on the list. You have the floor, Mr. Franz Kramar. And get ready, Mrs. Lidija Ivanusha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased to discuss the minimum payments in the Republic of Slovenia today. My opinion is that in the past, people who were paid less than they deserved were workers, but then they were directly producers and today they are servants. As far as I am concerned, I can build on the case of what it means to work — not to work, but to work for 8, 9 hours — in an establishment owned by directors and other Taiwanese managers, then sell the matter to a foreigner and today these employees are based on minimum wage despite the fact that their health is deteriorating due to poor conditions and that they invest in this work and are not rewarded for it. I don't know how many countries across Europe actually have a minimum wage. This is already an indication that the Republic of Slovenia must provide for a minimum wage in order to actually pay this layer, which I think is below the cost of living. Believe me, people who have minimum wages have a hard time living a month, they're going through a very hard time in a month, and they're actually dependent on this company. The social market system was mentioned today. Sure. In particular, the emphasis on social inclusion. We know that we do not have this in Slovenia. We have employers on the one hand, and in most cases also owners who give their employees a minimum wage. This line of people with minimum wages is actually unfair today because it does not have the same public sector as trade unions that would fight for them and for their rights and especially for their salaries. Interestingly, in Slovenia we have several ten unions based on the public sector. In individual economic operators, companies, there are no trade unions that predict sentences because people don't even deserve a living worth living. I am convinced that what we are doing here today is one step towards bringing workers closer together to receive a substantially higher minimum wage than we will at this first reading. Even 700 euros is a step further, and this is significantly less than workers would have earned. For example, we have a neighbouring country of Austria that has passed a minimum wage of thousands of euros, and I do not know whether economic growth in Austria is so different in Slovenia that this range of 300 euros is justified. The fact is that our employees in these companies, too, should also be recognized, without the pressure of the state, by minimum wage laws, that workers are the ones who make profits. None other than direct manufacturers, if I call them, are the ones who make profits in companies. Of course, I will continue to defend the views that will benefit this segment of the population. You talked about the welfare of Slovenia – when will it be, when will it be? Then this prosperity of Slovenia will be when people get a fair payment for their work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Lydia Ivanus. Get Tina Hefferle ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u38	Nice hello to you all! As a Member, I fear that today's efforts after the minimum wage arrangement will not have the desired effect on workers who truly deserve a decent payment. And no effect on businesses. I'll explain. In the Western world, we want to regulate all social relations by means of legislation; that is, the role of the State intervenes in every social relationship. Also in the worker relationship: employer. Why it is necessary to regulate this relationship with the law, the answer is very simple — to prevent the act of dignity, in which case the worker. The State, as guardian, is concerned that the worker will receive a decent payment, including by means of the law we are enacting today. In my view, the employer-employer relationship is very personal, after all, the employer's choice is who he will hire. Since the working relationship is a relationship of superiority and subordination, the worker must work according to the employer’s instructions and, in the event of misunderstanding, the employer always warns that no one is irreplaceable. Personally, I think that every employer knows his employees or if you want, I can say – his associates. He is very well aware of the situation in which workers work, how they work, how diligent they are, and I believe that because of this personal relationship the employer-employer should, in particular, evaluate the work of his employees fairly himself. While the State is working to ensure fair pay in every way possible, violations will always take place. In particular, infringements occur because of the immorality of certain employers, as they only look at how they will optimize business operations and they are very well aware of the situation in the labour market and how good their workers are. But there are also those employers who appreciate their employees, respect their efforts, and pay them well — without the necessary minimum wage legislation! However, if they are not satisfied with their workers, there are other labour law institutions for this, and this must not be expressed in any way through the amount of wages. I believe that there is a great problem in the mentality itself, because the state cannot always be the guardian of all social relations. Comparable arrangements, such as Austria, Italy and other European countries, have already come to realize that the legal regulation of this area is not an option, but rather a respectful attitude of the employer towards the worker, which is expressed mainly through the level of wages. I myself have worked for many years for a minimum wage, and I must tell you that I had to find an additional source of income so that I could get through the month. And it is sad that those who do not have the option of parental support cannot live with dignity alone because the minimum wage does not cover the cost of living. We probably all agree that each employee deserves a proper salary to survive himself and his family. However, the arrangements in force do not allow the latter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. Get ready for Sonibo the Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Most European countries know the legal regulation of minimum wages, some have a certain minimum monthly salary, some a minimum hourly rate, some even both. Such intervention by the State is clearly necessary in order to achieve a social standard of the State. The task of the State is also to enable its citizens and citizens to live a decent life. We must not forget that Slovenia is a social state. Nevertheless, the European Statistical Office notes that the proportion of employees who receive a minimum wage or a percentage more in Slovenia is the largest among all members of the European Union, where the minimum wage is legally fixed. Are we really going to look through this? It should be made clear that today's proposal to amend the Minimum Wages Act cannot link the fears or concerns of NSI colleagues, where they have previously mentioned that raising the minimum wage means raising the recipients of the minimum wage by 2020. Yes, it depends on how we look at the matter! If we determine that the minimum wage is, I don't know, 200 euros, then we will virtually not have the recipients of the minimum wage. But this means that social standards in the country will be higher, will people live with a better standard? I don't think so. We have also heard an unfortunate link between the increase in minimum wage and the increase in black work. Well, that's populism, too. Many studies, many recognised economists have explained that the minimum wage, or its rise or introduction or gradual increase of the minimum wage, does not in any way pose a threat to the economy, to the destruction of the economy or to the threat of mass forgiveness. While a certain part of the economy opposes today's proposed changes, this is justified by the fact that they will be forced to forgive. See, the estimated estimated cost for employers to have a minimum wage due to the legal regulation is only 0.21 per cent of the funds they spend on wages in companies, or in other words, that on average represents 0.6 per cent of the company's profits. In fact, companies should withdraw so much from profits that they can provide their workers with a salary that represents at least a slightly more decent life. Furthermore, the fear of breaking the balance sheet between salaries is too high in my opinion, as it is expected that the increased minimum wage will also result in a gradual response of other wage groups, which the market will certainly take care of. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not the ones who promote populism. We will simply, by gradually raising the minimum wage and excluding the allowances to the minimum wage, allow our citizens and citizens to come at least a little easier from month to month to live more decently. And you know, whether or not we have to take care of this group of citizens and citizens in particular, the country is not just an economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Sonibo Prince has the word to prepare Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u42	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellows! “Slovenia is a democratic republic, a legal and social state, a country of all its citizens and citizens based on the permanent and inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. In Slovenia, power is vested in the people. Citizens and citizens shall exercise it directly by elections on the basis of the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial.” Are you familiar with this, dear colleagues? For this is the inscription on the front page that we Members face daily when we open our computer. These are some fundamental principles enshrined in the constitution on which our country is founded. I don't know if it was a random decision by the creator of these websites or a deliberate, deliberate move that reminds us, Members, of what our role is and what is the goal that we must all strive for here in this temple of democracy. Of course, I take it as my last. It is true, however, that in recent months, since I have been here in the National Assembly, I have repeatedly asked the question whether these claims are still being held or whether we are all looking forward to these common principles and objectives in this Chamber. For most of these principles, I would say that I have no problems and I can firmly answer them, we realize them, we follow them. We are a democratic state, we have the right to self-determination, we gather representatives in democratic elections. Many times, however, I, my fellow Members, have been in the dilemma of whether or not Slovenia is still a social state. Above all, I have a dilemma when some of the discussions and proposals coming to the National Assembly are being adopted, which are heading towards the privatisation of public services such as health care, education, and could also be listed. In recent times, colleagues and colleagues of New Slovenia, Christian Democrats, who are not always convinced that their proposals constitute an intervention in what they have acquired, today all available services, which would make it significantly difficult for many to privatise this accessibility to the many socially weak, even for many. I don't know if this thinking is somehow in harmony with Christian values. I am proposing to him that Christendom’s fundamental proponents write on the home page of computers to remind them that caring for a fellow human being, social justice, a respectful attitude toward workers, and could even list them, even in the spirit of Christianity. To return to those questions when we ask whether Slovenia is still a social state. Of course it is. The answer is largely yes, because if we look at a number of areas when we are trying to arrange in this National Assembly that this name will continue to be maintained in the future. But it is true that maintaining some social justice is some unending story. I am therefore pleased that the coalition, together with Levi, has recognised in the advocacy, joint action in this mandate, that we have quite a few matters that need to be corrected. Let me just list them: public health care, affordable public health care, pensions, 280 thousand pensioners living below the poverty line – all measures that will go towards higher pensions and improved pension status.—and the minimum wage that today's topic could also be listed. If we could just take a quick look at what the current situation is like, I'd say, great. Economic growth, all companies have orders, those that could still be placed under a common denominator, and everyone in this Slovenia is looking for employees today. However, this favourable economic growth, which, of course, is also linked to record profits, at the same time also means improving the standard of employees; in many companies, yes, unfortunately, in many. The collective negotiations or social dialogue between employers and trade unions, representing employees, are unfortunately at a very low level. If we look only at the tariff annexes of the collective agreements of most of the trade unions, we see that we have, somewhere by the fifth or even the sixth tariff class, amounts that are in fact now below the minimum wage. Good companies have arranged this years ago; they respectfully and properly pay their workers. These companies are also among the most successful Slovenian companies. Unfortunately, such dialogue, including statements – I myself have been part of my professional career for about 9 years as president of the union in a larger Slovenian company, I was also vice-president of the union to give some of these negotiations to representatives of employers through. I'm telling you, the pattern is exactly the same today. At that time, I don't know, for 15, 20 years, we've listened to Mr. Hribar Milic say that with every small wage rise, we're going to ruin this economy in order to collapse. Today, unfortunately, also Mrs Šmucova's statements, I fully agree with the union statement that her statement, which names all those who will now receive these 700 euros, is that they are rich people. I think that this is a great deal of rudeness, that this statement is really inappropriate, unworthy and humiliating to employees. Mr Horvat mentioned earlier in his debate today that he did not agree to state intervention. That's what he emphasized. I too, my dear fellow, firmly believed that today we will no longer have to regulate this minimum wage with all these economic indicators. Unfortunately, this minimum wage, 600 per cent or more, receives more people in Slovenia, and this unwillingness for social dialogue has also brought us to the point that, unfortunately, we also had to cut into this area with some administrative measure. The open letter to the President of the Government, the Members and everyone we have received from the representatives of the economy, under which these requirements have been signed in the credibility of over a hundred directors, I would say that they should read that letter, which they have received only today, in support of these minimum wage laws. These are humanitarian organizations that face the hardships and hardships of our people every day. There's that real picture, the current state mirror! And a lot of companies are allowed to have hungry employees in companies. At the same time, I'm not going to mention that they're stockpiling, as I said before, quite nice profits. I've been driving every day from Zasavje for quite some time, but it doesn't matter which way I go to Ljubljana, I track down the big jumbo posters of one of the companies where the director is also among the signatories of this petition or this appellate, where they write a lot about looking for workers: Don't go on the road, stay in the valley! Yeah, sure, they'll stay. No one's crazy about driving an hour and a half in one direction 60 kilometers to Ljubljana. They must also be paid with respect. That's the only thing that gives results. To return to Mrs. Schmutz, 700 euros. Of course, it will be a balancing tool if the basic wages by tariff class remain at this level as they are. Social dialogue is therefore needed. You need to sit her down. In December, the Union of Free Trade Unions is forecasting protests over the unwillingness of the employers' parties to negotiate. I hope there's a sense that they can work it out. If I can give you another minute or two of my experience. I myself was part of a professional career as a part of a narrow team that helped one of the major Slovenian companies. Look how we started it. By starting to respect the employees, to take all the leadership in education, to teach them that it is necessary to greet the employees in the morning, to talk to each other, not to yell at each other, of course, and pay each other. We are 8 years ago, 7 years ago, I think the first in Slovenia to introduce a minimum wage without these supplements. Why? Since there was four shifts, production was 24 hours a day, 365 days, 9 to 10 years as the work process lasted. Since it wasn't fair, it wasn't fair to coworkers who were working Saturdays and Sundays, and their allowances were counted to minimum wage. The country also partially corrected this two years ago, and I am firmly convinced that such a proposal of this law is also going in this direction. Of course, that's the reason. I'm not going to let go of how many of them we raise so we don't repeat ourselves. These are the minimum amounts we're going to raise, so no one's going to be rich. But somehow this bill is going in the right direction, so we will gladly support this law with our colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Gregor Perich. Let's get Gobbler ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Today we send one important message to the public all over Slovenia. But before I go to this message that we've talked about a lot today, let me take a few more steps. We have a law on the table that I believe is important and useful, but it is not yet fully optimal. Nevertheless, it seems to me that it would be easier to talk if colleagues from NSI -- now they are a little less here, only Mrs Novak -- could participate in the government. The SDS has taken the stand of some hard opposition, which it is also understandable, that the SNS is a medium-hard or medium-soft, I do not know quite yet; we are still expecting colleagues from the Left, and we hope that this agreement on cooperation between the Five and them will be signed as soon as possible. In the meantime, there are a lot of messages, ideas, concepts, written words, spoken words, which then all of us in the middle of this, we have to somehow get them into life, put them into action, and do something useful, something functional, something that will bring results that we can somehow be proud of. I think that every worker in Slovenia and elsewhere deserves a fair, proper, proper and such treatment, which also allows him some earnings that he deserves, as the name just says. We have had economic growth for some time now, we have low unemployment and high employment, and it is only right that everyone in Slovenia will benefit from this economic growth. It is also true that no one in Slovenia opposes raising the minimum wage. A minimum wage raise is supported by the public, supported by workers, supported by trade unions, the Government, the coalition, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, supported in the SMC and probably many more – we have heard of NGOs. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities supported the minimum wage. It speaks of the minimum wage as a fair wage that allows a decent life, as a basis for this increase is also a favourable economic climate, and as a result must all those who contribute to it. Similarly, the Minister for Economic Development said that people absolutely deserve a decent payment for their work, but he also mentioned or suggested that Austria’s example would be appropriate – as well as from the point of view of the functioning of our economy, to make a multi-annual plan to raise minimum wages, so that we all know what we are doing and that the stress is as low as possible. Nevertheless, it is important to draw attention together to some important facts, and I am also speaking in my role as chairman of the Committee on the Economy. All the steps we take in the National Assembly must create one such environment that it is prudent, predictable and, above all, gradual. We have also heard a lot about social dialogue today. In the SMC we see social dialogue as some advantage, as some kind of good, some achievement in our social development, which is worth protecting and caring for. Perhaps this social dialogue in the past, as we have heard, could have evolved to an even higher quality level, but if we have not done so far, this does not mean that we will not need social dialogue at this time and in the future. That is why I also expect them to be involved in this process to invest in social dialogue, all of these processes as much effort as it takes to find solutions with which we will all be satisfied. Of course, the formula itself for calculating the minimum wage must include coordination with the social partners in such a way that it is not in any way in the form of a social monologue, or if I take another step, not forward, but backward, of a parliamentary dictatorship. That wouldn't be right. After all, in this sense, a directive gives us or does not give us a reference, which is a very specific orientation already ratified by the International Labour Organisation Convention on Minimum Wages, which lays down the obligation to consult fully with the social partners regarding the determination and coordination of minimum wage. Therefore, it is not appropriate and we cannot just agree to a certain point of view or logic that the proposal for a law should only be dealt with once in the Economic and Social Council and we have done a trick – the social dialogue has been carried out. It wasn't done! I am convinced that dialogue, as such, leads to cooperation and, on the other hand, to the tightening of some legislative muscles, eventually also leads to some tension in many other areas, and I believe that in the situations in which we live, all of this is not really necessary because we are mature enough in society to deal with all these issues in such a complex way. Only the effort to raise minimum wages is the right direction and has a good purpose. We have to take him out in such a way that workers will benefit and at the same time we will not harm the economy yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has Željko Cigler, to be prepared by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u46	Thank you. Dear fellow Members and Members, Representative and representative of the Government. Salaries in Slovenia are too low. As far as minimum wages are concerned, it is a demeaning income that a full - time worker gets at the end of the month to support himself and his family. In view of the positive macroeconomic results that we like to praise or are exposed to in all public data, whether it be from the Economic Chamber, the Umarja or the Government, there are figures that say that our GDP is growing, that our exports are growing, that profits are growing, that productivity is growing. This is what workers create, and all these results must come to them in order to make them better. When we talk about social communication and employers, we must not put everything in the same basket. Only some say things that may not match what is proposed today by amending the Minimum Wages Act. The president of the Association Manager Alexander Zazdnik in the last Lent in the Journal writes very clearly “if much work is done and nothing is earned, something is wrong” and highlights the need for a positive attitude towards employees, to an atmosphere in the company that allows progress, technological progress, value added and wage increases. He thinks the same way as his colleague from Koroška, if I may say so, warned, also President BHS Nazarje – otherwise Celjan, I will say, but still – which points to a positive attitude towards employees towards the proper remuneration of workers, which must be stimulating. I would like to say that today we are not the only ones talking about this matter. We were also joined by ironworks in Ravna, Koroška, which will perform a strike at the factory today. There's a thousand 700 employees there. However, they require higher salaries for all employees in the company, which has a thousand 700 employees. They work in extremely difficult conditions, in a health-threatening environment, they work in four shifts. Please note that the workers’ basic wages are below the minimum in their production and that they receive a fight of 900 000 with the help of supplements. At the same time, another fact is that steel is not in crisis, it earns high profits, it is constantly being updated, except for workers' salaries and, of course, it cares about the environment, where funds are usually running out. I'd like to say this. That wages can still be so low today, the country and the congregations are concerned. They subsidise capital and employers, a certain part that they can do. Just look at the municipal budgets – I come from a local community, I've worked and I'll tell you. Despite the fact that economic growth is, the money for employee rent subsidies, which we have to finance under social legislation, is growing. Funds to help students in food schools — in addition to what I think education finances — are growing. Funds to subsidise pre-school education for employed people – are growing. Next. The same country – children’s allowances are increasing, which is all right. But all this says is that wages are too low and that without social transfers in Slovenia, if you do fair and much, you can't even live. At the same time, no one thinks what the wages of these workers will be with minimum wages, as they are now when they retire. All will have to receive the subsidy from the State again, or the State will have to subsidise the capital employed by these workers today with protective allowances. Fortunately, these rose the last time we raised the minimum basic income in Slovenia. I would also like to say that – such a wage policy in Slovenia drives away young people and makes it impossible for young people to make families and have families. I'd like to say this; this is where we give our hand to the economy. In fact, if wages increase, there will be less money needed to implement social policies both at the level of the municipalities and at the level of the country. More money will remain to invest in development, to invest in the economy, so that it can raise its technological composition and the amount of added value, and this will also give it the opportunity to generate even greater profits and, above all, better rewards and raises employees' salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Get Lyudmila Novak ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I don't think it's in a parliament that's not convinced that those who receive minimum wages have a low minimum wage. I am sure that there is no one sitting here in Parliament who is not the average wage too low. I am also sure that this debate, this debate and this law are very important. Also for further discussion. It just bothers me a little bit that now the competition here in the National Assembly is about to begin, who is more responsible for this marriage being tabled. And then later, I'll say two, three things that are crucial. Why did I say that now? Personally, I can say that I have always – and I will fight – for small people in the future; for those who are placed on the social side of this society. This is my lead all the time, through all the mandates I've been here in the National Assembly, I stand for that. In this law, which we are dealing with here today, we also need to know the following thing. Of course, higher minimum wages are needed, absolutely necessary – as I said – even the average ones – but the way to them can be different. When I end up explaining why I think so, you're going to figure out why I put these things in the first place. First of all, I can say that I would be happy and pleased if we came up with a coordinated proposal from all the social partners today. This is one big flaw in this marriage. Another time. If you believed in this, those who proposed this law that you really wanted to help these people as a government coalition would not put the entire burden of this law on employers' backs, but would also give up certain contributions to wages and so on. Then the state would show that it really wants to do this for the benefit of all citizens and citizens also through the governance policy of this country. But what happens? The country with this law and with these proposals is even trying to patch a hole in the National Assembly. Why, I will now give you just a few details. The minimum wage, as has been the case so far, was 842 – gross I say – 842.79 euros. Out of this, a worker received 595.52 euros. The total cost of the employer was 978.48 euros. According to the news, I am talking about 2019, but the following is proposed: gross pay of 886.63 euros, net worker gets 624.21 euros, i.e. 28.69 euros more per month, the total cost of the employer increases from 978 to 29.38 euros. So 50.9 euros. The contribution paid from this goes to the budget and the state receives 22.21 euros per month. Out of this minimum wage after a new increase of 28.69 workers, the employer charged with 51 euros and the country gets from each salary to its budget 22.21 euros for each worker per month. Then you tell me that. A suitable solution? This is how the state wants to re-fill its hole because of its wastefulness. That's the way! Instead of getting all 51 Euros in his pocket, in his net salary, I would say that this policy and this government are serious. But after what I read to you here, and these data hold 100%, it is said that the state is trying to patch its hole with its own waste, so that some can export, say, this 2nd track, where the money goes a lot, that I will not say where, what is happening with the sale of the Ljubljana Bank and so on and so on, I find extremely, extremely unacceptable and even less fair. Because simply, if the state had an interest in helping here, everyone sitting in here knows, as I said at the outset, that minimum wages are essentially too low. And I'll say it again, including the average wage. And once again, if the state were to take it seriously, I wouldn't allow it and leave that money in the pocket of a worker. Here you can see exactly: the total cost to the employer, and the country elegantly pulls tax in its 22.21 pocket from each employee per month for its loss, 22.21 euros per employee per month. And then someone tells me that you're the one who's putting up labels today, how you're fighting for workers with a minimum wage, how serious you are. However, in order to continue, I will read the position of the last two paragraphs written by the Government. And one thing that you groups are saying here, and now I'm going to read to you what the Government has written, and you're going to find that it's written in a similar way to what I'm talking about. She wrote the following – the last two paragraphs in the position of the Government – “In view of the stated Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the objectives” – she wrote, “which is followed by the proposal. It assesses, however, that further to the legislative process, when seeking more appropriate solutions, it would make maximum sense to take into account social dialogue and to adapt the dynamics of the application of individual solutions to the proposal. Predictability of the business environment is crucial for the economy in Slovenia, so it is necessary to raise the minimum wage in a prudent, predictable and gradual manner. In view of the predictability of the business environment, it is inappropriate for the amendments adopted in December 2018 to apply as early as January 2019. In particular, the exclusion of additives whose unpredictability of scope and extremely short time limits for the implementation of the law require prudence and consideration of whether the additives should be excluded gradually. This would give both the public and the private sector sufficient time to adapt and possibly restructure in a direction that would allow a softer transition to a new legal regime." And the last paragraph. “At the same time, we stress once again the importance of social dialogue on the question of the definition and the level of minimum wage, the aim of which must be to support joint efforts to maintain real pay levels, to enable the economy to develop and to increase its competitive capacity. We propose that the proposal raises minimum wages also through concrete calculations and that a comparative assessment of the impact of the regulation on the economy, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, be carried out on the basis of the SME test for government legislative proposals, thereby increasing awareness of the qualitative and quantitative impact of the regulation on the economy and thereby reducing the negative impact on the economy. Changes should take into account the impact of the proposed measure on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The final solution in this area must also not pre-empt social dialogue in the field of minimum wage. In this regard, consideration should be given to whether the function of calculating the amount of the minimum wage was simply to lead to the determination of the baseline amount, and the possible pre-legislative range within which coordination could be possible, and then to the basis for further social dialogue that would contribute to the high level of reliability of the minimum wage movement over the medium term for all social partners. In a constructive social dialogue, it would be easier to achieve the broadest possible consensus of the social partners while working towards a just solution, highlighting the problem and taking account of the effects of such changes on the social well-being and economic development of the country." This was written by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; a government supported by all parties to the coalition. Now it would be right – I am sure that what the Government has written here – is the only smart approach. And I am sure that this will happen in further procedures. That is why today all those who speak so vehemently, how and what must be done at this time, and on the other hand you have neither behind your back nor your own government – this surprised me when I read this view of the government. And what I listened to, all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, is called a coalition, – I stress – but I was surprised. But I am confident that everything we can do must be done to ensure that those workers with a minimum wage have a real income that will provide them with a normal life. So they'll be able to fight from month to month. This is imperative to change, but in a way that we will find common agreement and a path that will sustain. It is easy to make a decision, to hang the entire cost for entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and the country, as I have said here, draws 22,21 euros from each employee per month into its budget. That's not fair. Here the country shows how much it is for these people who receive minimum wage. But if the state gave it up, then I'd say, yeah, that's the right approach now. But here you have made the right decision and here you really want to help the economy on the one hand and on the other hand all those who are employed and receive a minimum wage. Not to mention employees in state and public administration, where there are also many who receive a minimum wage. A long time ago, this problem could have been solved if those who have had so much time running the country in their hands — regardless of whether you are on the one hand, on the other hand, because you are always practically the same people; here and there may be some new appearances, whether he is in the National Assembly, or at the Ministry of State, or something else. It is so sad that in Slovenia we do not have any breakthroughs in this area, but people who are not burdened in one way or another with some connections from the past come to the National Assembly. But let me get back to the law. I absolutely support every solution, especially when it comes to getting the most out of my pocket workers, not the country or anyone else — entrepreneurs, craftsmen. However, for entrepreneurs and craftsmen, we are obliged as a state to ensure that they can function normally, and this is our task, not to kill them further with taxes and contributions. And that's what we do with this law, among other things. It's unfair and unfair. Clearly, we do not know who is the one who creates in this society so that we can sit in the National Assembly. If we are aware of this, then we will not say that these are some I don't know who, the rascals themselves, and I haven't been listening to anything today for quite some time about those who run companies, those who own businesses, and so on. This seems extremely unfair, extremely unfair, because the vast majority are very honest, but for those who are not, we have inspection services. We have inspection services that are required to address these irregularities. I listened to a lady today when she was talking about certain cases here, and I think she was also warned that if she knew such things, she was obliged to transfer them immediately to the relevant services, so that they would react immediately, because such things should not happen. No one is allowed to do that! But we can't afford to throw everything in the same basket, which is what I've already said today. And once again, just like the Slovenian Democratic Party, I say that we will do everything we can to get things to work here so that the social dialogue will eventually prevail. That ultimately, what matters is what holds this democracy together. That's what I believe, I'm sure. I am sure that some of this social dialogue will certainly be introduced in this proposal of the law in the next reading. A lot of things will probably be different than they are now, especially after I read to you the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Secretary of State Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I would only briefly respond to this last debate, given that interesting observations have been made, which, of course, I have to say no. One of these was in this sense that there is no government behind them, i.e. the Members. Here the link was then made to the opinion of the Government which you read – I think the last two paragraphs of the opinion of the Government. I would say this: today is the first reading, so it is said, that Members led by Levica have tabled a proposal for a law. Today's public debate in the National Assembly is also intended to face various concerns, views and so on. The government’s opinion, as you have seen, is written — as you yourself have read — to support the goals. In this context, we have also looked at what would be appropriate in the context of possible improvements to this proposal. However, as I know, today none of those present in this Chamber – those who have expressed coalition support, I think that even the Left – did not set up in any way, or demented in some way, or said that we had been facing the opposite sex in any way. Because, in the opinion of the Government, we particularly want to encourage certain reflections, which we believe are on the ground, so that a proper political decision can be taken in the end. If we look at it, let's say it's about the supplements. We are merely calling for consideration of whether additional consideration could be given to the additions, not just on 1 January 2019, but perhaps on a slightly different time dynamic. Even because, of course, the economy needs to adapt slightly, the country needs to adapt. This is a number of aspects and when you also talk about how much the state will take if a certain delay occurs, then, of course, the state has sufficient time on the part of the Ministry of Finance to consider whether any measure is necessary in the tax area; from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour, to consider and find out how to intervene with any measures to address an older population with a longer working life, in order to reduce the potential negative effects. Then, from the point of view of the Ministry of Public Administration, we may have to re-examine whether the Public Procurement Act and other regulations correspond to provisions such as those written there, or whether there may be no need to correct a few things so that in such cases – that is to say, in the labour-intensive industries, when we are talking about protection, we are talking about cleaning services and so on – this would not be considered a change in the situation on the basis of which we could then open a debate on whether certain public contracts, certain prices, can be re-determined, are discussed, precisely because they would not come into a strange situation where competition at the lowest price of any raise could pose additional problems – both for those who provide these services and for those employees who provide services in these companies. As far as the economy is concerned, you will probably see for yourself that the change in 2015, when we talk about work on holidays or work on the day off, about night work, about Sunday work, has already been adjusted by the employers. You can also see what happens on Sundays, what happens on holidays and so on. So they look through their purely economic prism and they come to realize that maybe they don't have to, that we're right, when they're the same cost of work day or night, or if they're the same cost of work on a holiday or a regular work day, then there's no difference. [[…]] Of course, it is logical that not only do we have stores or some establishments open 24 hours a day. In this case, however, there is some incentive, some rational reflection on their decision in accordance with economic rules, and this also indirectly affects workers in order to have better working conditions, a more favourable working time and so on. Similar movements will probably happen with supplements, especially when we talk about those for unpleasant working conditions; for example, work in the dust, work in the noise It says, all these other cases, in the heat, in the cold and so on, where employers are likely to be further encouraged to ensure working conditions that prevent workers from being exposed to such situations. [[…]] In this case, workers are likely to work better, work longer, work better, and in this way they will probably also become a little more productive through their work on their part. But it is a fact that we have quite a few problems in Slovenia, certainly, with productivity. While this is growing, we would like it to be higher, but it is obvious that work as a possible limiting factor or a costly factor has helped, if we say so, not to have to restructure so quickly, so quickly to invest effectively in new equipment, in machines, in improving working conditions and so on. So that's all the debate that's gonna happen. Of course, companies, as it is said, must have time to restructure to adapt their information systems so that they can become aware of what some news is bringing them, both for them and for their employees. Here is a thought about some dynamics, when certain supplements are actually excluded or paid in addition to the minimum wage, so that such an appropriate period may also be introduced into the law. The second thing about this is that the formula was mentioned. In that part only the Government mentions this and emphasises it several times, saying where it sees some additional room of manoeuvre for social dialogue. So if we have a solution in the law that provides where the bottom starts, where the wages start from, whether, in terms of the long-term predictability of the system, it is also reasonable for employers to think about a range. This is because, in practice, very rarely happens within this range, or to discuss for substantially higher wages than a dialogue or some of the solutions that we have in the Minimum Wages Act. However, it indicates at least what employers can expect in the coming periods from the point of view of wage raising. As has been said, we are in very favourable, economical times in terms of high employment. And that was interesting, I think that today a single consideration by the representative of the European Commission has already been mentioned, saying that these salaries must then also be set in some way so that we will not be the ones who will be the transit state in this sense, that if one of our fellow citizens goes to work in Austria, in Luxembourg - whatever the case, in the north - that it will not happen that those traditional pools, from which we too get relatively much staff for certain industries, which are difficult – we are talking about construction, we are talking, the end of cleaning, it is not industry, but it is difficult work, it is poorly paid that we will not be left behind after maybe too much in the minimum wage too. Why stop in Slovenia if you can go to Austria, Germany and so on. This can also cause us additional problems in view of the lack of labour, which is already being shown. As it is said, as regards these possible delays and so on, the Government's thinking went primarily in the sense that it is necessary to act predictablely in these matters, as well as to enable employers and employees, as well as the Government and the National Assembly, to be able to respond appropriately to certain distortions that might occur by correcting other regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbich has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I am very pleased with Mr Tiln when he has indicated some important things through his debate. We are always talking about social dialogue, and in these two paragraphs the social dialogue has been mentioned at least 5, 6 times. And it's nice to meet you. It's nice to meet you. So I didn't want to say anything here that would have been on the government's side when she wrote down her opinion that there was anything wrong here. I've pointed out that this is it. However, it follows that there will still be a great deal of government negotiations within its coalition. There are many negotiations that this law will then see the light of the world. That's what I wanted to point out. And we, myself, as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party, have no problems in doing so when the law comes to the National Assembly, which is harmonised in the Economic and Social Council. That would be great, everyone would be happy, especially the workers who will receive a higher minimum wage. The other part that bothers me, however, is this contribution made by the State at the expense of the poor EUR 28 which the worker receives per month with an increased minimum wage. That's what bothers me. If the state were right, if the state really wanted to help these people with these low incomes, it would have given up this amount in one way or another. That's what the state needs to know, so the government needs to know how it can do it. If I had done this and all of these 50 euros had a worker in my pocket, I would have said, here, and now the state, so the government, has shown a serious will to take this situation seriously and also to help these poor people who are working for a minimum wage. It is easy to impose the whole obligation on entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and it is elegantly avoided and also the full budget. That's what bothers me. I hope that this will change further. That's what I wanted to point out. If we really want to help these people who live on a minimum wage, the country has to contribute its share, and this is to create an appropriate economic environment so that jobs with higher added value and a greater opportunity to raise wages. It's sad that we even talk about minimum wage every day. This is happening in Slovenia, if it were not for these places, and all of this would probably not be happening anymore. If there wasn't so much money in the oasis, we all know, billions and billions, we probably wouldn't be talking about minimum wages of 760 or 800 euros, but we would be talking about minimum wages, a thousand 200, a thousand 300, or a percentage more, if this theft were to happen, this bastard wouldn't be in this society. And what bothers me the most is that most of those who have led to this story, that the situation is as it is, would now like to moralize [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u53	Mr. Pojbich, it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u54	Yes, thank you very much. That's my conclusion. Once again, I ask the Government to consider how to leave the €22 received by the Government in the pocket of those who receive the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is "Ludmila Novak." Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Thank my colleague, too, for giving up on his intention to speak, because I am in a really hurry and I am already late. Really, it's hard to be against this proposal because wages are really low. And in New Slovenia we always advocate that work must be paid and that people must live off their wages and not on social assistance. But what is certainly disturbing about this proposal is that we are always stressing social dialogue, but here we have given up. And if the economy is always making proposals on what needs to be changed, so that the economy can function better, not because of profits, but because of better business and also because of better wages, we are always hearing this over and over again, then we cannot be surprised that the economists are indignant. And we in New Slovenia have already made several suggestions on how to make more of it in the pockets of employees and that the country is a little bit less devoured, and this is easily questioned. Yesterday, when we proposed a law to increase this rate of income, to make it easier to pay up to €7,000, you were all against how much the country would lose. Here, when we impose new burdens on the economy, we do not ask ourselves if the job for which the minimum wage is foreseen also creates so much that it is worth the payment, but I believe that workers are working hard, in most cases. Again, when we propose that the state reduces the burden on its side, it pays grossly for more to be heard, we know that we cannot create jobs with higher added value, which also entails those jobs with lower added value. When we say, let's give, let's reduce these contributions, because our educated staff is leaving, and they're creating higher added value with their knowledge, we're easily hearing this. It's like I'm asking a neighbor to help someone, and I'm holding the cross. And all those who demand that employers pay more are of interest to me, but for the social state, how much does someone in their pocket give for those who are in social distress? That's a lot of questions I've been asking myself. And if those countries that do not have the expected minimum wage even have higher average wages, then we have to ask ourselves whether this system works. We note, however, that there are fewer and fewer workers and employers who will want to have employees will have to pay more. I am very pleased and happy to go to a company where they say: “We know that workers have to be paid well because they work better.” This consciousness should prevail. But if the state imposes higher contributions on employers, higher taxes and so on, then, of course, they cannot give higher net wages to employees. When we proposed that the 13th salary be taxed as much as the regression, but not nearly half, the coalition easily rejected it. And I'm sorry, it always seems to me in this country that there's a lot of duality. A lot of duality. Why did we have to invest four billion in banks and rehabilitate them? Because we did not act in time to prevent those who were lending credit to their friends on vampires. Somebody talked about yachts before, but I don't know what kind of property. Yeah, let's find out, find out if they've hidden their taxes to pay. Those who do not comply with labour law should be punished, not those who do what is right and pay their workers honestly. Really, the minimum wage is lousy. I would give thousands of euros, thousands of euros and more, because I can't imagine how people can save anything out of it, then buy an apartment or a car or anything. Of course, they are too low wages, but we have to put in place a situation so that the economy can and will be able to pay. Well, that's easy to overexamine, so I don't think this system works. And we don't listen to what employers suggest. We're not listening. We don't care about that. We have heard before that we have low unemployment, but at the same time we are talking about how much we have to spend. Yeah, of course, if the employer has to pay the hospital 30 days out of his pocket. We've been proposing for 15 days. Then it's better that he doesn't hire anyone, and he only has a contract with him because he doesn't have to pay the hospital. And with only a few changes, including listening to social partners, we could come up with far better solutions. And so we take, on the one hand, and on the other hand share, and on the other hand do we take, and on the other hand do we take, those who work. Of course, once again, wages are too low and they deserve higher wages. However, we also know that some workers are not doing well, and employers have no opportunity to act in this case or very little. Again, we do not hear certain reasons, opinions and needs. We also had a very broad debate in our party because we all agree that wages are too low. But where to take it, how to do it, so that we do not burden the economy too much, so that it can develop, so that new jobs can be created, so that we do no more damage than the benefits, so that they do not stop some jobs? All of these are dilemmas, all of which are the concerns that have accompanied us in this regard. It's easy to make promises, it's easy to make at the expense of others, but it's hard to create. Sharing what others have created is a force that is easy, but let us think very much when we share what we create. I wish that in Slovenia the economy would do so well not to talk about minimum wages at all, but about satisfied workers, about progress in our country, about a growing economy that has all its potentials, opportunities where others also want to come, open up the company because they know what awaits them because our legislation is predictable, our conditions. But that's how things happen to us fast, and we write something down, and it doesn't work. And we're not going to make any quick changes, and we're going to make some changes overnight. I hope, now it's the first reading, and it looks like the law will get support in the first reading because it's hard to be against, it's hard to be. At the same time, let us also take into account the proposals and concerns of both sides or the three sides. And let the country think about where it's too devoured.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer, Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I'm just going to take something to the point where I agree with Ludmila Novak. It's hard to create. Especially if you get a minimum wage for that. And I am therefore pleased that today we will support this law, that those who create and are most exploited, even though they work in the professions that this society urgently needs, such as technical personnel in health care, nursing homes, cleaners, security guards, sellers, warehousekeepers and so on, finally they come to a better end after more than a decade of crisis and five years of growth that has not in any way reflected in their well-being. Now, here's the next one. A lot of you are talking about social dialogue. With regard to social dialogue, it is necessary to take a closer look at what this is and how it has developed in Slovenia. It is interesting that the right-wing tribunal today particularly draws attention to social dialogue. But there is something to remember – social dialogue was established in Slovenia in the early 1990s at the initiative of trade unions. The unions wanted to convey to us some form of tripartite negotiation, namely, capital-state-employees, as Germany and Scandinavian countries know, and they are. Then, in particular, the right side invested a great deal of energy and effort in breaking this dialogue. And he did. How did she break it? By first abolishing compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce and then in 2013 SDS, NSI, SLS, National Gazette and part of Desus still membership in the Chamber of Commerce, despite opposition by the Chamber of Commerce. Why is it important whether membership is compulsory or voluntary or why Kavarna Hayek, once ruled by Bernard Brščič, a radical neoliberal, today a fascist, has spoken against compulsory membership in trade and economic chambers for a decade? Because if you ask those who were on the Hill yesterday, or if you were alone, one sixth of the employers there supported a solution to the minimum wage supported by the Left. But you won't hear these six employers' representatives today in any of the chambers of commerce, in any of them. Following the abolition of the mandatory membership of the GZS and the OZS, 83% of the owners of the companies replied that they would not join any of the chambers. And who is now in these chambers, or what is the way these chambers operate? They have become, in a way, the political party of capital, the capital that is most aggressive against the social state, the most aggressive against taxes and the most aggressive against wage increases. This is now kind of a section of these so-called employers' associations. And they are because only you are left there, all the time those in the Economic and Social Council are blocking any social initiative that would improve the situation of workers or the state of the social state. Their program is basically what NSI says because they wrote it. I think so much about social dialogue. [[…]] This should be taken into account. I was last time to tell you, firsthand, in Kranj, I'm not going to name a company, but it's high-tech, it's got 100 employees, average pay 2 000 700 gross. You know what their boss told me? “I would not join the Chamber of Commerce in my life, because it works only for illegal entrepreneurs who make their profits on low wages.” That's what he said. And there are companies like this in Slovenia as much as you want. However, it may be necessary to organise an economic chamber of legitimate entrepreneurs slowly, and then we will see different colors and shades in that chamber. Another thing when you talk about surviving models. This morning, I was, funnyly, at the NLB Centre for Business Excellence, where, among other things, economists Jože P. Damian and Equilib were analysts of the Chamber of Economics, who strive for tax justice. We talked, of course, about taxes, where Slovenia is with taxes, how it is placed in European space and so on, and about survivors and future models. Jože P. Damian, once a young economist, had an interesting view and self-criticism. Initially, he said that in 2005 he was among the most vocal economists who demanded the introduction of a single tax rate because they believed that a radical reduction in taxes on the economy would lead to greater investments and technological restructuring of the economy. What happened? a) The reduction in taxes in those years prior to the economic crisis led mainly to acquisitions, debt, speculative investments and ultimately to a left-wing contribution to the crisis we felt after 2008. The technological structure they were hoping for remained the same. Jože P. Damian estimates that in 2018 it could be 2 to 3% better than it was in the years before the crisis. And it's a survival model because today we're still listening to the same story on the right, lower taxes on the economy or just Hribar Milic would say, give the economy oxygen and there will be development. No, there won't be a development. Until the development against Bulgaria, if we want to develop, to a more developed one, see how European countries stand after tax coverage and where Slovenia is, you will see that, somewhere in the middle of the group with the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania and so on, more or significantly more are Scandinavian countries, Austria, France and so on. And where is this reserve? Mostly in capital taxes, where we are in Slovenia at the bottom of both the OECD and Europe scales. And if we're going to develop, we're going to have to have a different recipe like low wages and low taxes. We have tried this for ten years. We need to make use of this conjuncture for something much smarter and more meaningful. We're gonna make the right move today.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich, get Robert Pavšič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u60	Your Honor! I will certainly support the proposal for a law amending the Minimum Wages Act. For the law removes a substantial, one great injustice, eliminates the division of workers into first- and second-class, eliminates unfair provisions, the addition to wages will never be part of the basic salary. At the same time, I wonder how companies that employ these workers and have multi-annual contracts with contracting authorities will be in such situations. I think this is where the country will have to go. However, in order not to be misunderstood, the well-being of economic growth must be felt by all citizens, all layers, but I want future changes to take place in dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Pavlšča, to be prepared by Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Before I started, I'd like to address some of the things that bothered me today. We talked about rewards and wages. I'm sure these are two different things. The prize is what is superstandard over pay and can never pay the named prize or vice versa. We need to separate this immediately, pay some basic assurance, and the reward is for something more created. Then we also talked about small people. I mean, that's already unworthy, then we're splitting up into small and large people. I think we're all human beings. Another thing got me wrong, and that's the inconsistencies in reading the government's opinion. Now I don't know if we all understand the legislative process here or whether, although I doubt it, or whether it's just very clever reading and exposing what suits us most. The country that takes it — so if you take it, you don't give it back, and that's what's bothering me. However, the legislative procedure suggests that today we are only taking a decision as to whether or not the law is ready for further consideration. And this marriage, no matter how hard it is to be against it, is impossible to be against it. And the proposal of this law is not a war between employees and employers, but it is a response to the situation, the situation at home and also around the world. Unemployment is currently at a record low level in Slovenia. I'd hire companies, but they can't because they won't go to work. I wonder why. Some can't, but most probably won't. Why? 10% of employees are in the 1st and 2nd grade. That's unworthy. Instead of talking about the minimum wage being a very large exception, it has become quite a rule. Of course, we can't even all entrepreneurs, they're not all the same. In the vast majority it is the right people who have invested in their businesses and the development of their businesses a great deal of money, time, knowledge, care, denial, unslept nights, and they have the right to profit, but they also have the right to a decent life, and everyone who has added to these concerns their worries and their work, their blood and sweat. Thus, employees added something to this process. And now it looks like the law is going to cut into this country because the economy is not. If we were to abolish the Minimum Wages Act, we would probably have to work for free or for lunch and transport costs. And that's what's going on, too, I believe. 78% higher poverty risk thresholds are for those who receive minimum wage. So 8 out of 10 people risk being poor because they get paid for decent work for 40 hours a week at least. And for the people on the minimum wage, we are Members here very rich. What is the situation, how much wages we have, we know for ourselves, are also published publicly. For those 4,000 best paid in Slovenia, we are also poor. What about those who end up with a minimum wage? I prepared a lot of statistics, and then, when Jerza presented her position, she warned me that these numbers, in fact, represent a pattern, but for each number, stands one person who works for his family, for himself, for his parents. And I'm going to use the same document as Mr Pojbič did when he was referring to the numbers, only I'm going to pull each other out, and they're written in. 25 years of working time, 15% of work performance, 2 weeks per month, 6 and 8 hours of work on holiday, for this work the lady, probably a merchant, would receive 886.63 euros, or if we translated this informationally, 624.21 euros. If it's not unworthy! And with a new bill, not now in force. If that's not unworthy, then I don't know what's unworthy. In general, wages in Slovenia are too low, of all. Mr. Horvat has repeatedly highlighted Gini's coefficient. In this poverty, we have all become the same. By at least being able to survive from month to month and putting another euro aside, one is utopia, science fiction. If you're running out of milk at the end of the month and you can't give your baby I don't know, I'd be bleeding if it helped. [[…]] And it's the system. I'm actually getting emotional because in every word we say, we need to see the person we say it to. It doesn't go on like that anymore. Employers do not respond, but we will be silent here – or what? It's not fair and it's not responsible for us, really, no. Solidarity of capital and work, this is what needs to be looked for today. Since 1973, scissors have been opened between productivity and clockwork. Why? The economists don't know why either. And how do we solve this? Even the best economists in the world can't even answer that or solve that. Productivity increased by 77 % at that time and the hourly rate was 12,4 % in the capital account. And if this is a global phenomenon, I don't know why once Slovenia couldn't be the first and say it, but now it's enough, and now let's give these scissors a little bit of closure. Capital gains are growing enormously and employees cannot survive. And then politics must intervene in this, yes, because the market is not responding. With deep respect for entrepreneurs, as I said before, they are not all the same, so it is also possible for us to find out about entrepreneurs, craftsmen and large business systems. When companies report to their shareholders, profits are great, but when they negotiate with the pay unions, these profits are suddenly gone. Now we have to decide whether we're gonna be shareholders or we're gonna be employees. Because I think that there are much more employees in this world than shareholders, especially those who could survive with their capital invested, it is imperative to support the employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez has the word to prepare Moica Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I am delighted to have this debate on a subject that is fundamentally social-democratic, although if what we heard yesterday, together, we come to a strange paradox, to ask ourselves about who to take, the country or the economy. The first part, which is very unpleasant — what we pay for health care and social pensions, is actually getting back. Nothing here eats away from the country or anything like that. And this seduction should really stop. On the other hand, of course, there is another ugly pretense. It's like the economy is all but workers. These two just won't work together. So what binds us is also the constitutional norm of the social state, given that the state is capable of actually providing social security. However, part of ensuring this is also, of course, the setting of a minimum wage, at least in our system, for once again and most likely also in a reformed social state, which we will have to talk about, will also be part of this minimum wage, could also be a minimum hourly item, assuming, of course, that we will have much better control over what is going on, because the two categories fall away. One is the one we are talking about, and these are the holiday workers, and the other category we are not talking about yet is informal work, without which the whole operation of the country cannot exist. These others, this is an even more difficult matter, we have at least started talking about the first, but I expect that we will also talk about the second and how we can reach out. But when we look at the matter essentially in terms of direction of the economy, then this minimum wage can be some sign in the economy that we want. We want jobs with a higher added value, but more should be gained from this higher added value for those who manage them. So not only profits, but they also have to be properly paid. In this case, we can stop the brain escape, not in other ways. However, human dignity also means dignity at work, and a dignified payment is an integral part of it. Of course, we have problems, we are facing a neo-liberal attack on the country and the social state today, both. Even at European Union level, we do not yet know how to deal with this whole issue, because we prefer to talk about social dumping than how to actually try to unify this common market so much that you do not have something like this happening that is familiar to many people within the research sphere. For example, for the same work done, a Romanian researcher gets twice as much as we do, and a German researcher gets three times as many. I don't think that's gonna work. And it's not just a matter of the market, it's a matter of a conductive market. An integral part of any transformation of the social state will have to be an item called a minimum wage. This should be removed from all additives. And on the other hand, of course, an integral part of this will also have to be social dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič has the word to prepare Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief, I've already said most of my business in the position of the Modern Centre Party. To highlight, we all say, work must be paid with dignity, fair, only a well-paid worker is usually a motivated worker, the economy also insists that wages must be raised, not only minimum wages, but also all other wages. I don't know how we're going to spread or promote tourism, how we're going to take care of our older people in pension homes, if these salaries are actually really very low, minimum. If we want to provide all the services better, if we want our people to live better, we need to raise wages. Here I would stress, the only thing we are concerned about, that is, the parliamentary group and also us, the work-life allowance represents a huge cost to employers and is not feasible to be with 1. 1. 2019 All these supplements exempt. Here it takes some time for the economy to adapt to businesses, because these older workers are already among the most difficult to employ. So that we don't have to push them further into the corner to have even less employment opportunities. I count that through social dialogue, both employers and the first-signed drafters will be able to agree on these issues and that we will all find the best solution for our workers together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija has the word to prepare Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. First I'll say, yes, the croissant also applies to minimum wage. Since we always like to compare ourselves with Germany, I will quickly serve you a German case. On German television, a social experiment was carried out, namely, leading companies and owners took over the roles of job seekers and carried out normal work in their companies for a certain period of time for a week or two. The findings have always shaken and sobered them. The tasks they expected from their employees were usually not able to perform nearly as well, or they realized how much effort, skill, and dedication required someone, even a simple job. Therefore, I propose to all those who consider the proposed minimum wage to be an undeserved luxury, to be raised from their chairs tomorrow and to take over the work of a cleaning woman, a construction worker or a factory worker for the next four weeks and to receive their salary for the work done and to try to pay only the basic cost of living with her. I assure you that your attitude towards their work will not only change, but in the first week you will require an increase in wages that will far exceed our proposals. So let's be solidarity and be human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has Lidija Divac Mirnik, ready to be Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! In this three-and-a-half hour debate, I will not repeat all of this because it has already been said. It was a lot of water. With a lot of respect, I agree with almost everything. Nevertheless, I would like to divide my debate into three segments, the first to support the amendment of the minimum wage law. There are four reasons for that. First of all, it's fair and fair, that's what I used to learn at a religious school. That's why. Second, because it's good for people who work. Because it is good for children who want the same as their peers whose parents have higher wages. Thirdly, for 70,000 employees who will be with 1. 1. 2019 a little easier to breathe, a little easier, I emphasize. And fourthly, even because this will at least make the social picture of Maribor easier, where such workers are huge, those who stayed in Maribor, because the other majority went to Austria to work. That's four reasons why. Then the second segment, who actually gets the minimum wage today. First of all, these are young people who want to make families, buy apartments, and unfortunately they can't afford it. Secondly, these are women, because even in Slovenia they are less paid, although statistics actually say that women are more educated, that we are more working and that we are also better workers. That's why. And the third time. Less educated, those who work on the basis of contracts, and those who don't work full-time. They're the ones who get the minimum wage. And for them too, this proposal needs to be supported today. And the third segment that I would like to open – the word on employers and social dialogue. We have also received a letter from the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions of Slovenia, which states, citing: “The KSJ condemns the unreasonable and disproportionate grave threat of employers who are prepared for 30 euros”, attention, 30 Euros, “the higher minimum wage to prevent social dialogue in our country and even to incinerate by cancelling collective agreements.” End of story. A respected economist has already said, however, I state: “The introduction of a minimum wage or its gradual coordination has not yet destroyed economies or the claim of mass forgiveness anywhere in the world.” End of story. It seems to me that these two indications are very significant and would make sense to think of them, especially those who talk about terrible issues and the pogroms of social dialogue in Slovenia with this proposal. And I know that every good director or employer knows that a satisfied worker, a good worker is only one and that one who is paid fairly, who likes to go to work, who directs all his energy to his job, is also motivated and works for the good of businesses where he works. So it also means the added value of that company. A good director and a good employer realizes that a worker has to pay a fair price because this is consequently good, of course, for the owner and even for him if he owns it. So, I am sure that such employers and directors are huge in Slovenia, and this also needs to be said, honestly. Of course, they are those who think differently, which we have heard so much about today. From everything I say, of course, I will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Natasa Sukich ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues and Secretary of State! At the time of the electoral campaign, both you and me on the right side and here on the left here in the middle, everyone said that employees had to receive such a salary to provide them with a decent life. I also talked about this a lot at my meetings and also among the people. Why? Because at the end of Styrian, these salaries are so low that it is simply impossible to survive with this minimum wage. And what's happening to us? Young people, as a colleague mentioned earlier, are going abroad. For the same work 30 minutes drive from Maribor they get a substantial difference in pay as with us. On the one hand, it saddens me today that we should even talk about minimum wage, for people deserve a salary that is worthy. On the other hand, we say that they are gathering political points between each other and the other. No, he's not here. We all work together for people. For such wages as they have are simply not sustainable. We've got a few letters as well. I must say that decent pay is by no means a threat to economic competitiveness. I would like to reiterate that. Today's proposal is going in the direction of setting minimum wages. The upper minimum is determined, 20 per cent above the minimum cost of living. Of course, there is a gradual rise in the proposal. And excluding income from minimum wage. As I mentioned, we have made quite a few calls, opposed to how we will destroy the economy. Now let's get to the beginning. In 2010, at the time of the Pahor government, when the biggest crisis was, we passed the Minimum Wage Act, which was a minimum wage of €234.15 gross. Once again, there was a 23% increase in minimum wage compared to 2009. Even then, they said what would happen, businesses would close down, employers would go away, shut down, and I don't know what else. We had courage, we made decisions, despite such and other pressures that companies would close. The exact same story happened – those we were here in 2015 when we re-accepted the minimum wage from which we excluded certain supplements. Even then, they threatened to go abroad, to forgive. And if we look around Slovenia today, you'll be surprised what some companies come to Slovenia for a good economy, for a good path. What was said at the time simply did not come true. There has been no negative impact on the economy in this decision. And today we are once again faced with this dilemma. Again, whether we have the courage to protect the workers and also the work. We need to reduce salary and income inequality, reduce wage discrimination, reduce poverty among working families, protect workers who work. This is also provided by the European Social Charter, which sets out and tells us that workers have the right to a fair payment which provides them and their families with a decent standard of living. That is why, once again, I am disappointed – I warn and stress – I do not throw everyone in the same basket who wants to take advantage of their workers and make only profit with their work. Many employers do not realize in the company that the largest capital in the company is a worker. At the same time, of course, we also have many successful entrepreneurs who recognize this. In particular, this is seen in family companies that are aware that employees are of exceptional importance and that they also have a successful business company. So, the magic formula for businesses is a very happy worker. What can this worker expect? The highest efficiency, motivation in the workplace, fewer hospital absences, which have been extremely large lately, less negative climates that could be passed on among workers, and of course more cooperation. Once again, everyone would benefit from the knowledge that wages are also a key component of economies that enable consumption and, of course, economic growth. Increasing social differences in society is unacceptable, unfortunately fostering this intolerance and also hatred. That is why we need to consider where we want to take Slovenia. All those who strive in the economy to find profits at all costs at the expense of employees – this is unacceptable – are destroying the social state. And one more thing, the macroeconomic movements in Slovenia are encouraging. I'll give it to you. The cumulative growth of gross domestic product in the last three years, 2015, 2016, 2017, amounted to more than 10.3 per cent, cumulative productivity growth 4.2 per cent and cumulative average wage growth was only 1.2 per cent in three years. And today we have a proposal on the table, which is entirely for me, I will say, although completely acceptable, because certain things will need to be discussed, and I think that on the one hand social dialogue will be needed at this stage, because the issue of what will happen to older workers on the other hand, or whether companies will still hire them, because you will hire an older worker, is going to be a higher cost, so at this point it is possible to consider the gradual implementation of this measure at a further stage. If such a decision were to be taken immediately and this work-life allowance was also eliminated, it would be true that older workers would find jobs difficult to find, so parallel levers should be sought for what is being done here. Finally, allow me to quote Roosevelt, who wrote in 1933: “A company that pays wages for its existence under equal survival does not deserve to do business in this country.” This clearly tells us that already in 1933 they realized that the worker was the greatest wealth and needed for a decent job to ensure social security and also a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Nataša Sukič has the word to prepare Jani Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have all received an open letter from prominent NGOs, which, of course, unanimously support the proposal for a new Law on the raising of minimum wages. In a letter signed by more than 30 truly identifiable and reputable organisations, they stressed that the minimum wage, which currently amounts to only €638 net, exceeds the survival threshold for two euro bees. So it's NGOs. Among them are the Red Cross of Slovenia, the Slovenian Karitas, the Union of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia and so on, which, regardless of their world view, are united in the gesture of fundamental humanity, which no one seeks beyond the limits of acceptable, and that the view of the empty wallet has never been, is not and will not be a matter of ideology. Look at the empty wallet has never been, not and must not be a matter of ideology, a respected colleague and colleague! And even here in this National Assembly, we should actually be completely united and should not manipulate various issues regarding how we overheat the economy. Luka explained very well earlier what is the story of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which raises so much dust around this issue. We are aware of this problem in Levica. Since we joined the National Assembly, we have been striving to raise the minimum wage in a tangible way and to change its definition in a way that will not allow us to play, exploit workers and workers in order to actually enable them to live with dignity and dignity and a fair pay for their work. And let me say, this proposal on the table is actually a compromise. As a compromise in Levica, we have proposed a new Law on Minimum Wage with three clear solutions. Firstly, a gradual increase to €700 net by 2020, although in fact this salary should be raised to at least that amount immediately. Secondly, the elimination of all allowances from the minimum wage. Thirdly, the introduction of a formula for calculating the minimum wage threshold below by 2020, which will set the minimum wage level by at least 20% above the minimum cost of living. This will be what will guarantee workers and workers that minimum dignity and at least some sort of fair pay for their efforts and for their work. The gradual rise will ensure that the major shocks in the labour market will not, in fact, occur, although some fear precisely with this. We suggest you take one. 1. 2019 minimum wage rises to EUR 886.63 gross, i.e. EUR 667.11 net, from 1. 1. 2020 at 940.58 euros gross, i.e. €699.93 net. Let me point out, this isn't about disproportionate lifts. The proposed amounts of the minimum wage for 2019 and 2020 reflect adequately the macroeconomic trends identified by the UMAR in its autumn report. They also attach this to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and the Ministry of Finance does not oppose the withdrawal. According to the calculations of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the estimate of the maximum total cost of nominal increase of the minimum wage per year for employees up to the new value of the minimum wage in 2019 is EUR 36 million. This amount in the proportion of the annual wage of employees in companies, which was only EUR 11 billion in 2017, represents only 0,33 %. Even in sectors with a lower added value, this percentage does not exceed 1%. For example, in clothing production this share would be 0.77%. These are the amounts we're talking about. So all the fear of overheating the economy, how we do not understand and listen to the needs of the economy, is really unacceptable to speak like this. The total cost of the employer will not increase significantly. In 2019, it will rise by €34 or 3.38%. According to the calculation of the Ministry of Finance, the increase in 2019 will amount to €2.5 million more in income from income and €3.7 million more in income in 2020. Social treasury funds will also increase by €17 million in 2019 by an additional €27 million in 2020. As we can see from this, the final calculation of the effects of the proposal on public finances is negligible, only €3.4 million and 3.1 million in 2019 and 2020. According to a recent assessment by the Ministry of Finance, which takes into account the effects of the exemption, 15 million euros is foreseen, which the Ministry considers to be a slightly negative impact on public finances. However, I must point out that this calculation does not take into account increased consumption. Let us also look at the impact on the profitability of companies, about which there is so much talk, about which so much ink has been spilled and so many misleading words have been said. It is necessary to make it clear. The percentage of enterprises that will lose their minimum wage due to the increase in wages is negligible. Neglect. Above all, it must be said that this company would lose even without raising the minimum wage. Indeed, the problems of these companies lie in basic losses. The proposal to raise the minimum wage thus follows the overall growth of wages and incomes of enterprises and therefore affects the situation and profitability of enterprises will virtually not be affected. Next year, the minimum wage will be higher by 5.2%, and the average salary will be around 4% higher in the first month of next year than this year. As for the alleged levelling woman you are talking about, colleagues and colleagues in Novi Slovenije, the National Assembly is the one who sets the minimum wage and all other wage relations are regulated by social dialogue. Since this has been completely cancelled, we still have a basic salary of less than €400 gross in collective agreements. Can we imagine? 400 euros gross. And now I ask mainly colleagues and colleagues from NSI, who have just had so much to say today, especially to address my question to Mrs Šmuc and the economists, gathered around her in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, is said to all those who so scrupulously oppose raising the minimum wage and even regulating wage relations in Slovenia. Is that social justice? Is it socially fair that the current minimum wage for survival exceeds only 2 euros for chicks? Is that human? Do we really care that more and more citizens and citizens are dwindling into poverty, that we are turning into a society of poor people on the one hand and a narrow circle of overpaid social elites on the other? We're here in the National Assembly to protect only one capital and forget about the man cynically? So this is our mission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik has the word to prepare himself for Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u76	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Nice greetings to Members and Members of Parliament and also to representatives of the Government! Let me begin immediately by saying that whenever there is a debate on minimum wage, someone says it is an inappropriate time or that it is not the right time for this debate. Let me be clear here, and we must all be aware of this, whenever we talk about the weakest, it is always a good time. And even now is a good time to talk about the weakest, those who receive the lowest wages, and with this law we will at least fix this minimum wage a little bit. I'm glad we're talking about this in the National Assembly. But I have to say, I'm not proud of that. That should be self-inflicted. But since this is not self-evident, we have to set this minimum wage by law. Let me tell you a little bit of history. This minimum wage was introduced on the initiative of the United List of Social Democrats in 1994 and the then Member of the said party Miloš Pavlice. Since then, the law has been a fundamental tool to protect at least the minimum income and standard of all those who live on their jobs. Today, many times, it has been said that the biggest increase in this minimum wage was in 2009 when Borut Pahor was led by the government. It was raised by about a quarter at the time. And that's when we first got close to the poverty risk threshold. And despite the pressures of the economy and everyone at the time, as we are facing the same pressures today, time has shown that the economy was wrong and employment has not been reduced as a result. It fell due to the great economic crisis at the time and not to the rise of the minimum wage. Even then, we gave or then gave Members, the National Assembly gave a transitional period, just as we are likely to give it now with regard to the exemption of all these allowances to the minimum wage. And from this biggest raise, the minimum wage has been around for about 10 years now. And it is unreasonable, unfair and incomprehensible that in some collective agreements the minimum wage is still lower, from now on. Therefore, we estimate that the time has come for these additions to be exempted from this minimum wage by this transitional period. Of course, we as a country can do this. And as I said before, it is also that I will not harshly express myself, one small shame that we must make it by law, and it is not self-evident. This is particularly important in my country of Koroška, because there are higher Austrian wages for workers to be invited across the border. And just today, like my colleague from Levica said that in the Slovenian steel industry, workers have a protest in three companies in Koroška, of course they have all my support here. They demand exactly what we are talking about here today in the National Assembly. There, iron workers fight for their rights and for fair pay and for respectable working conditions. In the steel industry, conditions, as we all know, are very difficult, workers are stressed and also physically very burdensome. They spend their whole lives guarding their lives and then they come to a pension and find that even this pension is shameful, but they can’t have a higher pension if they don’t even get minimum wages. I believe we all agree here, left and right, and everyone else, that we must restore this respect to this working class. Let me say here that I have seen in an article in the Austrian newspaper that since 2010, there have been more than 82% of foreign workers in Austria, more than 32% of them Slovenian workers. And more than half of these Slovenian workers work in those segments where employers in Slovenia point out that there is a shortage of labour, but employers will have to get the wages up first. Austrian wages are higher and therefore Slovenian workers flee across the border. And I am sure that none of these Slovenian workers who work in Austria want to do so, but they went to Austria precisely because of low wages in Slovenia. Once again, owners can pay their profits, which are lower than in most other European countries. They can pay for their workers, and workers need to be paid honestly. Yesterday we received this open letter addressed to the President of the Government, to the Members, to the Ministry, where, of course, they do not agree with this raise of the minimum wage. And here is also signed SJ Metal Ravne. This means the company where these people strike today — a little strange. On the other hand, I get a copy from Ipes, which says that in 2015 the value added was 51 000 782 per employee last year, and in 2017 53 000 651 per employee – this means 2 000 more euros. I am an economist myself, and I know that if wages were to follow this, any employee who brings this added value should have between €150 and €200 gross higher wages. She's gone. And I am happy to support the marriage today, and I hope that by doing so we can help those who have the lowest income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Starović has the next word, and he will prepare for Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Today, we are talking about minimum wage, and I am glad that we are all aware that workers are essential to increasing value added and that they must receive, today's speech has been indivisible, no one has been against raising this minimum wage. Only the way to what we have heard can be very different and views are very different, not so much here in the middle, but on the one hand we have also heard defending the supply economy, which modern science, modern opinion in the economy completely rejects. We know that if we compare ourselves with Europe again, the data show that we are below the average after tax collection. But Europe was built by looking at the countries of Austria, Germany, here, what we are building around here, a democratic Europe was built on Christian Democrats and Social Democrats. And with these measures, when the state intervened, regulated the market, this development was completely peaceful in the post-war Europe for almost half a century, and growth was beautiful and high because the state was regulating matters that were important for the functioning of the country. And we say our country is devoured. How, if we're under the average after tax collection, from where? I don't understand this and I feel bad when some colleagues tell me how patriotic they are, how they care about the state of Slovenia, and how they talk about how greedy, unwise, wasteful and so on. If the state does not have capitalism, here we, the social liberals also advocate this system, for a free economic initiative, but if there is no market regulation, capitalism devours itself. Definitely proven in the wake of the last crisis. If we release things that we've released, we've reduced taxes and so on, people could do whatever they want, but, let's say, this had one period when the total indebtedness of the state, citizens, businesses, financial intermediaries, grew from 2004 17 billion to over 40 billion, 42 billion, over 100, it grew, only in 2014, it went in a positive direction because we've saved the banks. We threw 4 billion in there because we should have done so as soon as the crisis occurred in 2008. No, we're so many years later and we've had problems, big recession, low productivity. But not because of minimum wages that would be too high or so on, but because the money economy cannot function without financial intermediaries normally. And we didn't save them, we went to save them too late. And now we're paying a billion dollars a year for interest on this account. On this account, because we owe ourselves, because it doesn't matter because it's not a state, but if the state didn't then take over the debt and rehabilitate the banks, the banking system, it would collapse together because we're a money economy, without financial intermediaries. And because of these, I'll say, nonsense, we were also forced by banks to sell, other companies and so on, instead of keeping it. This is all the previous generation, partly worthy of me, because I am older, we have built, we have built a rather robust Slovenian economy, which is also an exit from the country, from the common market of Yugoslavia has not collapsed, but we have had growth well since 1991. Interesting. Then, only later did we fail. So don't ask me to speak in the Hayeks but the Friedmans, who are internationally proven to be a completely missed path, now this modern current fully acknowledges. So again. Let us be proud of our tradition, we are the result of this Europe, we have looked at Europe, we have made the Constitution a tradition, and I look back at NSI – Christian Democrats, this tradition, and the Social Democrats. This is what was building a solid Europe, and now we are letting up in front of the populists. Let us be proud of our country, defend it, and let us search for common truths. It is right that there are different opinions that they meet here, but let us look for something that can bring us all together better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Mateja Udovč, and Jernej Vrtovec is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposal for a minimum wage law establishes a meaningful relationship between the income of economically active and economically inactive people. The proposed amount to raise the minimum wage to EUR 667 and EUR 700 in 2020 was also given on the basis of current macroeconomic developments in our country. Positive trends in economic growth, employment, the reduction of the budget deficit are the real argument that we will all jointly support the proposed law and thus make it possible for all beneficiaries to live better. The minimum wage must be a fair payment for work to all those who work full-time while at the same time providing them with a decent life. Minimum wages must be the basis for good work, as must be the basis for achieving added value. We must not forget that these workers have contributed to economic performance, so it is right to take care of them in the first place. That's why I'm going to support the bill. The first steps have already been taken with the support of the SMC in the previous mandate. At that time, we achieved that certain supplements were removed from the minimum wage. However, by changing the definition of minimum wage, they will eliminate or curb the current abuse of the law. Some employers pay in addition to the minimum wage, while others include them in their own salaries. Such practice is based on different interpretations of the law and is unfair. It is unfair for employees and employers alike. Only the definition of minimum wage should be separated from labour law. The minimum wage is a matter of broader social consensus, it is a matter of social and just society, the fair distribution of social wealth and not just the relationship between employers and employees. But it must also be the result of social dialogue. The current ratio between minimum wage and the poverty risk threshold is minimal and the question of work is therefore raised as the value of our society. A minimum wage raise is also needed as a result of a recent rise in financial social assistance. However, we must not forget that any administrative correction of wages by the State can also have a negative effect. We need to be very careful, careful not to disrupt the pay system and create new tensions between employees and employers. I agree that the increase in minimum wages must be gradual and predictable so that this measure is also sustainable for the economy. We must also take into account the fact that the removal of all the allowances from the minimum wage represents a huge, sudden burden on the real sector and is linked to labour costs or competitiveness. It will certainly be necessary to set a reasonable time limit within which this measure can be implemented without causing additional harm or dissatisfaction among people. A minimum wage raise must be a deliberate step in the right direction, in a direction that will be effective for businesses and employees in the long term, and will also ensure the development and increased competitiveness of the economy. Wage policy must be monitored in social dialogue and coordinated with all partners. It is true that so far the rises in minimum wages have not always been harmonised. But this does not dissuade us from working towards constructive social dialogue and reaching the broadest possible consensus between the social partners. If the social dialogue on wage levels is not established or strengthened, the focus of the debate will be on a political agenda every time. As a society, we need to start talking about raising all wages and redefining wage relationships. Finally, I would like to stress once again that I am absolutely in favour of raising the minimum wage and establishing a new fair pay system. I live in an environment where I meet a lot of people around me who work for minimum wage. They find it hard to work for a minimum wage. They work in difficult situations. They've been working all day. Finally, they face shortages and poverty. These people have for a very long time lost their jobs as a means of survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. But get ready for Predrag Bakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u82	Good day to you all! The perspective of New Slovenia is certainly to talk about raising all wages. And we are in New Slovenia to raise the minimum wage. For we claim that the minimum wage is too low and that in Slovenia all wages are too low. However, raising the minimum wage should no longer be at the expense of the economy, but at the expense of the country, what we are proposing over and over again in New Slovenia. And here are our views, our differences in particular in the fact that on the other hand, the left says that 60 euros, as much as the minimum wage would be raised, would be raised at the expense of the economy. In New Slovenia, on the other hand, we propose that for these €60s, the country can cancel this money through taxes and the money would go further to the state treasury through increased consumption. We are both in favour of raising the minimum wage of 60 euros, but you are on the economic side and we are on the state's account. At the expense of the state, we are in favour because this money is accumulated through greater consumption. And it saddens me that we still do not make this leap in perception, in the way we think when we are additionally burdening the economy. And according to OECD data, Slovenia is already, for example, one of the Member States where the minimum wage represents a so-called high share of the average wage. And for you now, it seems, the problem is that if you increase the net salary of the worker by giving up the country 80 euros in taxes, that seems to you to be the problem that you showed yesterday. I really don't understand what the problem is here. On the other hand, you do not think that there is a problem if you additionally burden employers, businesses and increase labour costs. And if we increase the cost of work on one side, what? It's reducing competitiveness. For even so, the Government also says, you yourself say that we have too much work to do in Slovenia and that we are overloaded in this regard. So the burden of the country with 80 euros is unacceptable for New Slovenia, but look at it, and the next day, the employer of the ruling coalition is charged with as much as 110 euros. For New Slovenia, therefore, it is unacceptable for the country to take 400 euros in taxes and contributions, as proposed by you, from a worker who receives a minimum wage. Therefore, an expensive coalition with Levi, before raising the minimum wage before raising the minimum wage, is your job in particular to stop taxation on poverty, because by doing what you are doing now, you are additionally burdening poverty, the weakest.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government of Tiln Bozic, and then he gets the word Mr Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Nevertheless, I would like to respond to this last statement that the State should cease to tax poverty. Those who receive a minimum wage, if we look at the income burden, pay almost nothing. [[advertising from the hall]] He's paying for his contributions, that's what he's holding. However, the contributions are linked to the rights it enjoys. Today, it has already been pointed out on the side that a certain spiral that happens to such a person, who is on a minimum wage, drags through his entire life of work and later lingers in the length of his pension status, which is a very embarrassing thing. It is true that when we look at the contributions, something has to be given for health insurance, a large part of that for pension, but at the end, when we look at how our pension box works, we find out when the calculation is done for 40 years of work, if it has been on minimum wage all the time, the state has to bring him along to climb over that minimum of 500 and a few euros, which is an awkward thing for someone who has worked for 40 years. It is said that he has a full time and worked 40 hours a week, which means full-time. This should be taken into account. At the same time, I'd like to consider something else. These are social transfers. If we take the situation that we have a 4-member family with 2 children, 1 goes to kindergarten, 1 goes to school, both parents on a minimum wage, we find out how fast it is to have only these basic transfers, it is said that they have a kindergarten and a child allowance of almost 600 euros per month. And that's what gets the state. However, in these words it is necessary to be a little careful to distinguish between what social contributions are, what taxes are, what rights it has, and what all those transfers that then transfer to such employees, which are very often found among so-called poor employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Mr. Gardener. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u86	Not in teaching the Secretary of State, but in reminding him of one thing: that, according to different explanations, contributions as a compulsory thing to be paid are also considered to be tax, just as it was on the basis of the Court of Justice that, for example, RTV contributed essentially to the tax, because the citizen has to pay it because it was so regulated legislation. [[advertising from the hall]] We still have it, Mr. Ducky. So let us use the correct terminology in our interpretations and not deceive.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Once again, I give my word to the representative of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u88	I would simply draw one parallel, which is perhaps not obvious at first sight, and that is that those obligations that such a worker must pay or settle for him to an extent, are almost entirely covered by those transfers that come from the state treasury, which means that if we say in a conversational manner, about gross net worth in such a case.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u89	Thank you. Now he has the word, Mr Baković, and he will prepare himself to be Primaj Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u90	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Throughout the last years of the economic crisis, many people in Europe and, of course, also in Slovenia have been poor times for both workers and entrepreneurs. As a result of the crisis, companies had a difficult business and the logical consequence was to reduce operating costs and, of course, also labour costs. The wages were reduced to a minimum or even below the minimum. Those companies that survived slowly began to grow stronger, but many forgot about the worker. It suited them that labour costs remained at this level, such as saving and saving, either due to the expectation of a new crisis, or due to investment in development, or because of the desire to increase their own profits. And, ladies and gentlemen, once you get used to the good times and take on the workforce as something in your own right mind, it's hard to decide to increase your wages. Then very often you get the feeling that the time for the minimum wage to be raised has not yet come. Indeed, many of the entrepreneurs, but not all of them, I must stress this, among them the thought developed, which was based on two facts, which is that the labour force is enough and others that this labour force is cheap. It has often been heard among workers that, at their demands or requests for salary increases, they have a sovereign response not to raise wages, raise wages, and if anything is wrong with them, to go because there are at least three in line for his job. And what happened to the recovery of the economy? Some companies quickly recognized that it was time to repair wages. In these cases, when enterprises were expanding and the collective was growing, there was no problem and there was no need to seek labour, they went from poor paid jobs to better jobs, and the labour market was relaxed and revived. Those companies with lower wages were getting more and more hard to get the right personnel. And what happened? Such employers began to look around their neighbors, across neighbouring countries, perhaps those countries that are slightly less developed, and there to look for a cheaper workforce. I'd rather do this than raise a minimum wage. And so, in my opinion, the first wave of economic migration began, because it is normal, somehow in human genes, that every living being, of course, also human, subconsciously pushes from a less favourable situation into a more favourable one. And here the question arises in itself – perhaps this is the cause of the migrant crisis? Maybe employers across Europe want to make a big profit with as little work as possible? Let everyone answer that. The law before us is finally good for all, especially for those who have been in a worse position so far. Just yesterday, at the meeting of the National Assembly, we discussed the fifth report on the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia, where we established low Roma employment also for reasons of a small gap between social transfers and the minimum wage received by unskilled workers. If the minimum wage is raised, the difference between social transfers and the minimum wage will also increase, which will stimulate the unemployed to actively seek employment. This will lead to a significant financial gap between social transfers and the salary of an unskilled worker or other appropriate job. The net minimum wage was, for the most part, lower than the poverty risk threshold. The current minimum wage is only slightly higher than the poverty risk threshold in 2017 and is likely to be lower after the 2018 threshold. For a decent life, the minimum income must be significantly higher than the minimum cost of living, as this ensures that the worker lives as normal as possible with his salary. I am also sure that the minimum wage will only perform its social and development functions if it is significantly higher than the poverty threshold. While the opposition states that yesterday we missed an extraordinary opportunity to raise everyone's wages, of course, by increasing the general income relief from 3 000 302 euros to 7 000 euros. Perhaps so, but that would have made the state budget considerably weakened. You know, this is not intended for Members and Privileges. If you believe it or not, the budget also increases the quality of life for all, both with various incentives and with the obligations the State has towards local communities. And here's the problem, my respectable colleague, who was discussing before me when you were just asking where the problem was. I can add an example. If the country's budget cuts, this will be known both in education, not least if you want, in the case of subsidies currently granted to the economy, we know that the economic price of the 450-euro kindergarten, which is today no one in the country pays or is very rare. And this is where subsidies can be reduced. And that, dear fellows, is a problem. Of course, the opposition, as well as various entrepreneurs, say that it is not yet time to raise the minimum wage. What time is it? In their opinion, never. There was no time when we were in crisis. There was no time when economic growth began. There's no time for the economy to settle down. And there will be no time when the new crisis comes. So when? My answer is yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The next word is Primož Siter, and Aljaž Kovačič is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, good day on my side! In front of us is one of the most important steps towards the social state. Two statistics testify to this on the one hand. One statistics that we have heard a few times today, which we have been hearing about in recent weeks, months, so much more intensely – poverty statistics, lives below the poverty threshold, the number of unemployed and the most worrying statistics on poverty among employees and so on. I'm not gonna talk about this stat right now. However, the important statistics that testify to the importance of the things we have on the table today are statistics of the entire civil society and of all the actors who have come against this proposal. On the one hand, trade unions, on the other hand, humanitarian organisations encountering poverty on a daily basis and so on. By this measure, we are essentially very quality, concrete and tangiblely deleting poverty from the Slovenian map. And this is that main subtitle of the entire initiative after raising the minimum wage. And now the very important thing within the whole proposal is to deal with additives, so these three sub-points of supplements at minimum wage. Some history in this area has already been made, 2015 has included all allowances, part of the salary for performance, payment for business performance, except for the overtime allowance. Then the National Assembly, at the proposal of the Trade Centres, eliminated the night work allowance, the Sunday work allowance, the holiday work allowance and working days, and all the okay and right. However, the fact is that the remaining supplements are subject to the same arguments. We can answer with the same answer. These are additives for specific working conditions, working time and pay for work and business performance. At all three levels, employers have so far used such highly creative solutions, where the actual level of minimum wage has filled the difference between the wage accepted by the worker and the amount of minimum wage, both work under difficult conditions, and then an allowance for working time and pay for work performance. These anomalies are unfair, we are heartily rooting for this area to be resolved. By removing all the supplements from the minimum wage we will achieve that the supplements will actually serve their purpose and will be additions and not some adjustments, some creative solution to achieve the minimum wage. This will improve the income of the worst-paid workers, thereby increasing public revenues, thereby encouraging growth and productivity in both the private and public sectors. Once again, before I conclude, I stress – minimum wage is not a social transfer. The minimum wage is not the charity the worker receives. The minimum wage or any salary is and must be and must remain a worthy evaluation of the work done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The next word is Aljaž Kovačič, and Franc Trček is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. We have advocated a package adoption of the cases from the beginning in the List of Marjan Šarc. So social transfers are arranged, the averages are set, today we have a minimum wage. I know that the opposition may be slightly in pain that we have managed to arrange a few things in this short time, but we have been saying all the time that without an enabling economic environment there is no vital social policy, and we have also advocated social dialogue. However, we do not take the social dialogue in such a way as to get three days before the meeting in dozens of letters of outraged economists, but among these economists are also those mentioned earlier by fellow Jani, who are actually protesting them, so as to suggest to these people that at least these lists may be deleted from these lists if they are already sent to the National Assembly of Letters. Thus, we also received letters from minimum wage supporters, which again creates a war between those who advocate minimum wage and those who do not. Thus, on the one hand, we all advocate that minimum wages must be raised and on the other hand we create this artificial created war, which of course is nothing new in Slovenia. I can't agree to the claims I've already heard on the committee today, who's making money so we can sit here, or, you don't have a single day of work, as one of the opposition mentioned to a fellow on the left. We have studied different professions and said that someone who is a teacher, works in health care or somewhere in the public sector has no working age or brought anything to the state, and I do not agree with that. Because I wonder where all these people were then educated, where they went to see a doctor when they got sick. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] May I speak, please? Thank you. That is, if, like you, you are to reduce taxes, I suggest we make a country like Monaco, and then each cost will be paid on its own. So when you get sick, you go to a doctor, you pay yourself when you go to school — I’ll be happy as a teacher, I’ll be able to earn more if every student or parent pays me for every hour. As far as minimum wage is concerned. There was a lot of talk about why young people are moving out of Slovenia. I'm going to let myself say the following here because I'm still pretty young. The minimum wage shall not be the starting salary for the work performed. And that is what is often the case in Slovenia. Thus, when we reach the employer, the employer first offers us a minimum wage for the start of our work. That is to say, I do not agree with this, because in my view, the minimum wage is the minimum wage of one security guard that the state makes so that those most socially disadvantaged people can survive with us. But I don't argue that working people are poor. Why do young people move out? The last time a colleague from Nova Slovenije said that he was kind of glad that Zujf had made it possible for higher education teachers to work at 75 years of age. The fact that a 75-year-old professor works in college is also one of the reasons why a young researcher goes abroad and then works his career abroad. The problem is also why young people leave, some relationship, many times, not everywhere, but also many times, employers to progress. Today, many mention has been made of the minimum cost of living of 613 euros, with this bill, and the minimum wage will rise by 50 euros above these costs. Today, it has been widely reported to Levi that she has forced this proposal into the coalition. I can say that I am very happy to sign this bill and I will vote here today with even greater joy for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of Dr. Franz Ducky, get Joseph Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't have much time. So fast and so short. Beyond moralization, we are a constitutional parliamentary democracy, poverty is unconstitutional. There is no need for you to write Teršak, Logar, Stubbs, Trček, Brglez, MTV to have a doctorate that you understand, and we must be aware of this as Members. Another time. You all say that's not an ideological question. A mistake that couldn't be bigger. What we are talking about today is a key ideological issue of capitalism – the relationship between work and capital. This is what the most lazy student or student of the FDV knows. In short, let's switch to the brain a little bit. If I say that in the human language – we are talking today about whether our development model will be based, the most often used word is a cost, in short, that a person is a cost, that a person is often too expensive for you to cut it down as a sausage, or that a person is respected. However we are turning around, we must also take seriously the emails we are receiving now: because of what you are doing, I will close or close the activity. Here we touch something that we have pushed into the market, which cannot function as a market. We're going to have to deal with this too. Today we are basically talking about health and health, violence and non-violence in the family, crime and crime in society, including in another. What can't generate a thousand 300, a thousand, 400 euros gross per employee is essentially more of a poverty production than an economy. That's a fact. And that's what the old policy hasn't changed its mind. When we talk about an economy that is, of course, crucial and important, we forget that it is made by a triangle. I wrote here: work, knowledge and management/cooperation. It's the heart of the economy. To make this work, you need to be healthy, you need to be cultural, which very often we are not here, and we need to be even more educated than we are here. We need a country for all of this. When I listen to the right hand today, especially NSI, I think you would be more radical anarchists than those of my anarchists in Maribor. You want the state to die. In this country, we are all citizens and there is not one person in this country who would not participate in the fact that we have a country and that we are collecting taxes. Let's stop playing dumb. And just for the end, because he doesn't have much time. Tuesday I was at UKM - Maribor University Library. The central library of the University of Maribor, in Ljubljana, this is slightly different because it is managed by NUK, and they said that after the tour we can buy a thousand 200 books a year at the mandatory copy. I almost fainted. Every year I buy, dig up in an antique shop, give me a gift, make a review, there's 200 books. I also read most of them this year. They're only six times what I am. This is a matter that we need to discuss. And the minimum wage is that bottom ceiling. I would very much like to say that 30% should be increased, but someone is spending 27 years, and all four investigators in the previous term have said and shown how and why, of course, the cost of what we call a country in a narrower and broader sense should be viewed here. [[…]] Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The next word is Joseph Lenart, and Dr. Darius Krajčič is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u98	Thank you so much for the president's word. Dear colleagues, Members and fellow Members! A raise of minimum wage – of course I am for or most of us are for. The fact that anyone who works, that is, a worker, will be able to live a decent life. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have a good programme to improve the quality of life of a worker and a small farmer. These two are also often connected, if not in one person. Yesterday we tried to keep proper taxes after the cadastral income, but you were mostly against it. So against actually doing something good for those who work maybe own a little land, a small farm to make something worth it. If we are actually going against the fact that the minimum wage is abnormally low, in my opinion, but my personal opinion, it should be 800 as soon as we have done that social assistance is 400 almost, and that we are all aware of that, therefore, that what is being put on the table today is quite a good thing, and our proposal is slightly different. Why not distribute a little bit of the burden of these funds needed to raise the minimum wage, something for the employer and something for the country? Given that we also have a strong coalition of 60 votes, it is likely that the proposal is going through today. But I also see some disagreement, for example, here I have in my hand the statement of Minister Restoration from yesterday's summit, saying literally: "The growth of minimum and average wages in recent years has not followed the growth of gross domestic product. People deserve a fair pay for their work, but it is necessary to consider what is possible and what is sustainable for all in the long term.” So, the minister is slowly moving towards dialogue, he notes that dialogue is needed. And he says, "We have to raise the minimum wage gradually and in several stages, which means that we cannot exclude all the supplements at once and raise them at the same time." He also says: “Successful economy is the foundation of the social state.” We are very well aware of that too. The following are a few sentences on how we are coordinated, and then: "As they point out at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Association of Employers, the above raise would have an impact on reducing the competitiveness of companies which are already so uncompetitive due to high labour costs." These are not high due to high net wages, but due to inadequately high taxes and wage contributions. Poorer business competitiveness means less business for businesses and less business means fewer employees. That's what I think, if I understand, the market economy. Then what? This further means fewer employees, means fewer payments of contributions and taxes to the Treasury and more payments of social transfers and social assistance. This government and this assembly of parliament will therefore work again on ad hoc, something in mind and quickly more than most so far, without real and long-term solutions, without real social dialogue, because this unilateral pressure on employers has been very negative over the years, and I don't think that was necessary. The representatives of the economy who wrote to all of us, and I have here a letter that probably all of you have received from Members, with over 150 signed companies, small and large, because we have already said something about small and large people today. 121 companies are actually signed and it is unacceptable that such a matter actually takes place without them. This is an open letter that I do not read for a long time, an open letter to the President of the Government, to the Members of the National Assembly, to the Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology and to the Minister for Finance, as they state, there was no hearing or dialogue with the social partners on this important issue for their continued existence between the economy and the social partners, and the applicants raise the minimum wage. Meanwhile, I have a feeling that the unions understand them even better than some in this room. During the session of the working body, when we proposed to the SDS Group for consideration and consideration of the possibility of moving to a minimum hourly wage calculation, even the former union representative and the head of the working consultancy said that it was aware that the excessive cost of work was a major problem for companies and an obstacle to the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. In fact, when the minimum wage was raised, on the other hand, they could reduce contributions and taxes and reduce labour costs for this employer. I am not saying now that this is a proposal from our entire parliamentary group, but I am thinking in this direction. If we were to cut some contributions, we could now have an argument on the table that we would call employers, so, now we're going to raise your minimum wage, every single thing. And then that's going to be the opposite of each other, it's said, of a relative share of the funds for this raise of half of the country and half of the employers. I think everyone would agree, and in fact the workers would be more pleased. But if someone suggested it now, put it on the table, and I'd say no, the country would go bankrupt. And if there is not at least a basic understanding between us of how the market economy works, of course nothing can be changed for the better. And he's really gone. That's not understanding. And sometimes I feel that some of us here are still reading textbooks from the socialist economy. Yesterday in the debate, for example, a statement: The capital is getting richer and the workers are paying more and more. Capital is capital, workers are actually working for employers who are a stronger customer [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your time is up. First, I give the floor to Dr. Duck. Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u100	One of the most frequently used words on the right hand side today was “disagreement”. We also have an obvious problem with the heart of understanding what parliamentary democracy is. Parliamentary democracy is a public use of the mind and views, both in this building and in the government. This is not coherence, this is the heart of parliamentary democracy. And if you have a problem with that, you have to learn that. And my procedural proposal is to warn your colleagues that they no longer insult us in our heart, the essence of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u101	Thank you for your procedural proposal. Since his colleagues heard him, I will not repeat your proposal. We continue the debate. The next one has the word Dr. Darij Krajčič, and prepare for Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I've just returned from the European Capital of Small Housewives. Do you have any idea where that is? It is neither in Austria nor in Germany, although many times they say, especially from one member of the opposition we hear how wonderful everything is there and how it goes there and how wonderful it is to see everything there and how wonderful everything is there. It's simple in Nazareth. And in this country, Slovenia. The European Capital of small household appliances. Today, we opened up a new production facility there. I talked to the Director, of course, and we also discussed today's meeting and today's subject matter, whether the problem is the minimum wage no. We have to raise wages. We can't work with minimum wages, we can't have production in this country that doesn't pay a man. This kind of production just doesn't belong to us. And in this development, they hired not only productive workers, but also engineers. And since we are the third most industrialised country among the Member States, this is very interesting, essentially based this industry on zero more than 20,000 engineers and a circus of thousands of managers. On the inside, the minimum wage at least for the pro-pulsive companies, for the good, development companies, in particular for those for whom we hear from the opposition many times that in entrepreneurship is the most pervasive part of the Slovenian population, must certainly be a challenge to increase wages and to drive businesses in a way that provides higher wages. Increasing minimum wages also, of course, means pressing up the verticals to pay. I expect, however, that the country will also go through this and also reduce the burden of work in the context of tax restructuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u103	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Jurša has the next word to prepare Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u104	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! Let me begin by saying that I will support the law, that it is suitable for further consideration. Some time ago, a year ago, I was in one of the stores of a former big Slovenian merchant, where my shopkeeper, who had been working there for about 30 years, said: “For many years now I have a guaranteed personal income, and I can’t even achieve it in the company, and on the other hand, our company’s manager recently left and received a discharge of just under EUR 300,000.” By doing so, she wanted to tell me what the difference is and how individuals, those who work in the store, and those who manage. I understand that there must be differences here, but I would still understand if the minimum wage were at least for the worker, but not that there was money for such a retirement and there was no money for the worker. I must tell you that I have been on the one hand and on the other, I have been in the real sector, as well as in the public sector. In the real sector, I was both worker and responsible. And I tell you, even responsibility is not simple and requires a great deal of effort by an individual, especially in those sectors where there is little added value. Now, let's talk about the current minimum wage. Look, we're talking about a very low amount, a difference. So far, the minimum wage of €638, if we add €29.11, would mean that the minimum wage would be raised 1. 1st of next year. I think those who listen to us, how many words have been spoken on this basis, have their opinions, but it's good to talk about it at all. Because if we don't talk about it, we won't protect it, in fact someone said it, but there's not a big person, there's no worries, there's small people, and there's big people and little people living on the social side all the time, and that's why politics has to get involved and help them. You know what, I have a feeling, and now I'm going to try to say, at least I hope you understand that the minimum wage will only exceed itself. Look, this lift simply and simply won't hold, because our employers, our companies simply and simply don't have, have a huge industry that no longer has people to hire. And if they don't pay them, people will just walk away. Slovenia is so small or narrow that the borders to the west and west are significantly better wages. Here I mean, in particular, northeast Slovenia and, of course, close to Austria. And employers in our area now have serious, very serious problems in certain sectors. I'm not going to talk about the formula and I'm not going to talk about eliminating all the voluntary supplements. I will say one thing, however, that this is the subject of social dialogue and that social dialogue must be conducted at this level. And I think that it will also lead and that in January, when we adopt the law, we will also take into account those proposals that will come from both sides. I would also like to remind you of some statements. And these statements were today by employers that certain raises of minimum wage were shocking. My dears, this amount I mentioned earlier is not shocking. A shocking statement on this subject is given by individuals. Thank God, there are not many in Slovenia. In comparison, I would like to provide some more information, but this information has already been said in the Chamber today. Some vary slightly, but in fact they are on a certain scale, so that no one in particular deviates. The poverty threshold 2017 was €636. The minimum wage is EUR 638. My dears, 638, 2 euros above the threshold of poverty. The average wage is EUR 1000 46, the average age pension is EUR 620, and the cash social assistance is EUR 392. We must say that it is not too stimulating for some individuals to seek employment and serve bread. The minimum pension in 2017 was EUR 500. That's what they say. Those people who have a minimum wage today are going to retire tomorrow. Can you imagine what their pension will be? No one will have a higher pension than the minimum pension for retirement. So, at a time when a person with such a low salary, the minimum wage decides to go to retirement, meets all the conditions, will enter the poverty threshold. And these things really aren't right. We need to fix these things, because if we don't fix it, then we're going to become a simple and simple force force of poor society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u105	Thank you. The next word is Mr Igor Peček, to prepare Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear fellows! For some time I worked in an economic company where they were employed on minimum wages and represented a relatively large proportion of all employees in the company. Given that it was a service industry, this is a normal fact for our market environment. The company has been successful in business, but not only at the expense of those employees who are on minimum wages, although we must bear in mind that these employees have brought a huge share to success. And that's why they were appreciated. The management of the company demonstrated this to them in one way or another, as far as possible in accordance with the business criteria. By the way, let me say that profit in a business that is successful is measured with the fingers of one hand and there are too many fingers on that hand. I also valued them for this and respected them. Even because I used to wonder or admire them for how they could survive with such a small amount. But even though we have lived in hope and are still living in the hope of cultivating a good business policy, we have not made a significant leap in the reward system. Perhaps also because of the fear for the balancemaker, but what Dr. Krajčič said earlier, and with what I absolutely agree, the amount of the minimum wage can also be an incentive for the growth of other wages and for the production of a successful reward system. And the fear of a balance sheet, with which we are also threatened by economists, in this case, personally, I think is superfluous. In view of what has already been said today, and I must say with the majority that I agree, I would say out loud, yes, the amount of minimum wage is too low. Too low and too long ago should have been higher. But we didn't make it here either. It's probably not about looking back, I think we should keep looking. For a worker who works 40 hours a week, payment is absolutely too low. I also believe that the difference between social transfers and the minimum wage is too small to deal with passive employment or labour passivity, as we say, and what Mr Jurša said earlier, yes, the situation in particular sectors is critical because there is a shortage of workers on the market. Let's hope this move starts moving this thing for the better. But like a stick, it has two ends. The other side should also be understood. The fact accompanying companies in the labour-intensive sectors is that in the so-called secondary or tertiary sector, the cost of working in the structure of all costs is also around 80 per cent of costs. And when these maximum costs are changed, the company must act and reduce the remaining costs. When this does not work anymore, the final price should be increased, whether it be a product or a service, and this is sometimes difficult. I hope that today's debate will help to change understanding on both sides. I have to cut back a little bit because I'm running out of time. Mr Šarec stressed this in his statement, which was mentioned in the debate today. I can't quote her, even though I think we've all read her. I would also like to mention that many of the economists who have been listed as unsigned because I think we need to talk about the facts mentioned in the open letter are members of the employers' association. At least I didn't see a document where their signatures were. And quite a few of them stressed that the minimum wage is too low and that it needs to be increased or thus achieved by stimulants to raise other wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The next word is Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. And get Yuri Leprechaun ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. In today's debate, we have heard what I am pleased to hear, something of support. Many of the findings that actually attach to what we have been saying in Levica all the time are that the minimum wage is significantly too low and that it needs to be lifted immediately. However, we have also heard some debates looking for leasings, looking for those at the end of sentences, and in some ways also looking for a way to throw things away. There were three main things. The first was social dialogue. If we go beyond the fact that social dialogue is something that is a fact and something that needs to be served, two must also be found. The first thing is that no concrete rise in minimum wage is going to happen, and it is very likely that social dialogue will not happen. The second is that we are talking about minimum wage. We're talking about what's below the threshold that we can't go under. So something that basically cannot be the subject of social dialogue. Here we have an added 20 percent, which is supposed to mean about the appropriate amount that a person can spend a month with. Of these 120 per cent, social dialogue is wide open. And I think we need to be aware of this and not fool ourselves into closing social dialogue with the law. The other thing was the load. That's what we heard most from the NSI. According to them, the country is ugly, of course, because it will take or additionally burden employers, but in the same breath it forgets that the same country also subsidises the economy, subsidises people, not least, those who cannot survive through the month, subsidises the construction of roads, our children's school, raises them in kindergartens and takes care of them in hospitals or in nursing homes. So this objection is also a bit declassified and, of course, means drilling a hole in the budget for those few euros more employers. The third thing, which is also very important in my opinion, is so-called predictability. See, the law as proposed, as it is written, has a very precise and highly defined timeline whereby anyone who goes about planning work processes in his company knows exactly what point he will be at in the next three years. He knows that he is waiting for him, which is really fast, with January 1st, an increase of 4.5 percent of the minimum wage, another 4.5 year from now to go out in those years, and with the third year in force of this law he will pay the minimum wage per formula, says 100 plus 20 percent. And that, more predictable than that, is probably impossible to pack. And here's what I want to point out is that the issue of minimum wage should not become a question of finding chamois or other obstacles. The question of minimum wage and raise is a matter of basic human dignity. Today we have also heard a lot of debates that I agree that we are also facing the dilemma of what kind of development model we want in this country. And what we now have, which is often based on the exploitation of workers, social dumping and, of course, the low added value of work, is not what we want. And with such a measure as raising the minimum wage, we can start changing this model and also turning the trend in a positive direction. Finally, we must remember who paid for the crisis. It has been paid by workers and workers, those who have lost their jobs during the crisis, those who have reduced their salaries with Zujf, who have taken away their entire set of rights and for whom, in fact today, although we are in one of the most record economic growth, these measures still persist in some way. We know that wages are stagnating and are nowhere near where economic growth is and where the profits of companies are, as has been pointed out several times already today. In fact, the phenomenon of the so-called poor employees, to which humanitarian organisations remind us every day, is also a matter of basic human dignity. In the first place, let's say Bohrvo. If you listen to Val 202 every day, you'll hear stories that are shocking. And these are the people who work, they're employees, and they can't survive with their salaries. And these same organizations have also invited us to support this step. This step, which not only means raising minimum wages, but should also start to be understood as a step towards raising all wages, because we need to slowly start pushing for a different development model. And if I paraphrase the sentence from this very letter of these NGOs, humanitarian organizations, the view of the empty wallet has never been, is not and must not be a matter of chamois or extra aces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. But get ready for Mrs. Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Since we have said a great deal today, and because I think that we are thinking very well of people, I am sure that we all feel an obligation within ourselves to help those who deserve this help. But it's interesting that we have different paths, which is nothing wrong. Even in all democracy, it is important that we be different in life. There's something new out of the diversity that can give some added value, some new value. We talked a lot about minimum wage. And as we have already stated in our position, in the Desus Group we support it. Like I said before, we're a social party, and someone said there's no minimum wage for social transfer. That's not what we said. We have said that part of the social state is also a minimum wage that shows how good or bad society is; or how it helps or how it cares for its people who are the weakest. And someone also said, a very good statement was that if the minimum wage is so high that we can all live normally, I don't mind saying that half of the Slovenians are on minimum wage. Why would that be wrong? Then the minimum wage is so high that we have no bad conscience that people can't live. And that was also said, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, we lost our mandatory membership. I was personally against it. And as my fellow moon has said, I fully agree, then some additional associations have formed themselves for their local interests. And that is also the right, and that is the right, because we have nothing, we are in a democratic society and should organise and fight for their own rights or other rights. And it is likely that employers who have some interest in some major capital gains are legitimate rights. The right and duty of Parliament to the people we are in Parliament is that this minimum wage, as has already been said, must be determined by Parliament. However, all other situations can be identified among the social partners. And we are always talking about economic and social dialogue. Of course it will come, but it has never been said unanimously – yes, such is the minimum wage. All that matters is that we're talking. And if we give another a chance to express his opinion, even if he is not heard, but we must listen to him; in any case, it is good that the dialogue runs out. We used to work by setting our own price for a product. And we were counting the material, the work, the cost of directing, were summed up to some value that was one. We said we can't go below that price and under that value. And that's why I think it's also my own price as a minimum wage that you just can't go under. And if we determine that this is such a value, which is now the goal of €700, and that all the supplements should be eliminated in the long term, we also agree that I am in person for this rational path, so that at least a few extras can be eliminated slowly, so that all people get used to it. And that employers will also get some sense that they are not alone. And that we are also co-deciding the country together for our future development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words and a very good greeting to the Members and Members of Parliament! Perhaps I would start by hoping that viewers will ever be watching such meetings in front of television screens. Sessions such as today, or perhaps a point that was on the table yesterday when we discussed Roma issues; and that they do not only follow those meetings when we are fighting and confusing with sometimes inappropriate words. The point yesterday, and today too, is a point that I personally think is very important, the point where, in the most important representative body of our country, we are talking about very important issues. And I also agree with someone who said just before that that we are discussing, among other things, a key ideological issue today. And from this very point of view, this debate is very important to me. Many of us have spoken in the same way here today. Most of us supported the proposed change. However, we may differ in how to make some changes or how to achieve some goals. Here to the right of me today we spoke very similarly and even to the left of me they supported the proposed solutions, but the differences between us are, and this is some great. I would touch on two more questions today, because many of the dilemmas have already been raised. One question is crucial to me, and I have already put it in my position, is it a question – a country or a market? Who should regulate our lives, the lives of our citizens, the people in our country? Are we leaning more towards a market model where we trust that the market is the smartest and will manage everything, as the NSI party advocates? Whether we stand for a strong country, as we stand for on this side, perhaps in this order as we sit. I was inspired by the article by Dr Rudi Rizman in the last Saturday annex, which thinks very deeply and deeply about these issues. If I touch on this dilemma – the market or the state – we may find in a concrete situation that the market has not reacted properly, at least if we are talking about raising the salaries of employees. At the time of the crisis, in Slovenia and elsewhere in the world, the countries again saved entrepreneurship and the economy; and that entrepreneurship and the economy, which is usually the loudest in their thesis, should the country withdraw because the market knows everything. This is not only about businesses in our country, but also about huge companies and companies around the world, including automobiles and so on. Even in Slovenia, the economists received a number of solutions, and I voted for many of them, and many ratings, in particular facilitations. And these reliefs need to be taken into account when we look at their actual tax burden. If the market has reacted properly, I don't know about the following. How many years has economic growth been sustainable and how many years has Slovenia been above the average of the European Union after economic growth? And for so many years, the pay hasn't gone up. And I'm not just talking about the salaries that are being discussed today, about the minimum wage, but about all the salaries. And if anyone is concerned that the minimum wage will also raise wages further, I absolutely hope that is the case and that all wages will be raised. And I absolutely agree with the fact that the role of the State is to regulate and prevent market excesses through its interventions. I absolutely intend to read on the first occasion the book by international relations researcher Susan Strange, who is in my book Mad money: When Markets Outgrow Government wrote: “To lead societies in which money dominates politics and to reduce state control over the economy, taxes are not collected or drastically reduced, inequality and greed is constantly increasing, leading such a society to corruption.” And I absolutely agree with that. Many economists, as well as entrepreneurs, would already be able to raise wages on the basis of economic results and perhaps not. With all due respect to those who have done so, some among them may need this extra effort to do so. At the same time, this is also a reflection on what the role of employees is and how many employees contribute to the development of society. And since much has been said about this today, I will not lose words. I would also like to draw attention to the second question I wanted to raise. This is the relationship between politics and the economy. During policy in terms of governance of the country and business, economic operators, economy. The author of our constitution, Dr Bučar, has already warned that in Slovenia countries have not led politics for some time, but others, especially economic interests. Most probably winked at this knowledge with their shoulders and said thank God for the reputation of politicians. However, this is an important philosophical question: are we advocates of a democratic society as some of the highest institutions in human development where people have elected representatives, where these elected representatives appoint a government and where this government leads the country? Or have we acknowledged in this area that a country or government or some important decision is directed by someone else? And in this sense, I keep asking myself, in the context of corporate governance and its freedom, what are these relationships? Are they strange in our country alone, or is it so everywhere? Nothing can be done by politicians, governments and ministers to influence the management of companies, but they are sovereign, and it is a matter of independent corporate governance. But when some important economic society is sold, and everyone is saying, say, the government of Janez Janša sold this and that, the government of Alenka Bratušek sold this and that. At the end of the day, we're all guilty of politics. No wonder we have such a low reputation. And it is precisely this discreet person between the actual power and what is actually happening and what is written in our constitution that I think about and wonder if we are going along the right path and where the limits of what is once the exercise will be completely taken over by businesses and markets in this area. I conclude with a recommendation, read an article that I have already mentioned twice today, and I hope that it will in all of us encourage some reflection on what kind of society we want to live in, where we want our country to go, and that we will also be able to talk patiently about it in this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We've got two more interviewers reported. First, Mr Miha Kordiš gets the word and then Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the introduction to my debate, I would like to respond to some of the arguments raised by the right-wing tribunal in this Chamber. This opposition has been quite something, but it has been nicely packed into a variety of circuits, such as the lack of social dialogue, such as that all those who are not hard right hands do not understand the market; and similar stories. But in fact, it makes only two sense to respond. The first argument is that it is the market that now the policy by raising the minimum wage illegally interferes with the market. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, the situation on this market is such that despite record profits, despite the conjuncture, economic growth, even the lack of labour pay has not risen. And the minimum wage institution still exists today. Therefore, we cannot expect any fictitious market management mechanism to actually make sure that the growth in productivity, the growth in living costs, the growth in employment and all others will automatically increase the well-being of workers. This doesn't happen on its own. This only happens through concrete measures. And one of the basic tools that politics has at its disposal is the minimum wage institution, which is also the only wage to which the National Assembly has a direct impact, and is cemented in this law, which we are now amending. Another sub-point to this claim that we do not understand the market is that it is not really a huge reduction that would lead the economy to kneel. This is a reformist measure which refers to one of the most excluded categories of employment, which has not received a reward for its contribution to the economy since the crisis. It is not about changing the economic model, it is not about questioning property relations in production. It is simple to raise minimum wages without actually changing the power ratios of society in any way; but at the same time they refer to the urgent hardship of the worst paid segments of the working class. And this is related to another statement that we have heard from the right-wing tribunal in the debate. Some subtle of the right is kind of in terms of – Yes, because we are also for higher wages, but, her, this terrible country should lower taxes, and then poor capitalists will also be able to pay higher wages. And that “as” the low level of Slovenian wages today is due to the fact that Slovenia has again, like, too high taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, €3.6 billion of net profit in the economy in 2017 alone says otherwise. Wages do not hold low taxes, they are held low by capitalist greed. Just like that. The room for increasing wages also exists within the framework of Slovenian capitalism and is, but will not mobilise itself. It is necessary to ensure that legal changes are made in order for this to happen. And the alleged tax burden of the Slovenian economy has absolutely nothing to do with this. It's absurd, abominable, not to say an insulting claim. Not only the amount of profits from last year, this profit increased by 19 times over the period of the transitional five years; 19 times. Have wages been aligned at this rate? They weren't. Only trading chains, in which a large proportion of employees work on minimum wages, turn EUR half billion a year clean. These are trades in which products are at roughly the same price as those found in the more developed countries of Western Europe, but in these more developed countries of Western Europe we also find wages once or more. No one's gonna convince me that the problem in the kubajag is overheating the country and in high taxes, something like that. It's simply that the employer side, the wage capital side, doesn't want to raise it, and that we have to force it. Marriage change is one way; union mobility, for example, as we are witnessing in Koroška today in the steel industry and so on, is another way. Come in. Quite a few sharp words were made at the expense of the lack of social dialogue. I have two answers to that. The first answer is that, in a somewhat special way, this social dialogue has already taken place, in fact, at the moment that Levica entered into the coalition negotiations where she brought her demands to work. And in these negotiations, there has been an indicative agreement to raise the minimum wage that we are dealing with today. One part of this agreement, which went into the coalition contract, is not one that is minimal, which remains our demand and which we will continue to strive for in the future; but in a way, the representatives of the classes represented by the political parties of the current coalition plus Levit. This is a kind of social dialogue that has already taken place. And my second answer to this is, this morning before this meeting, we had a work committee where we discussed the employer's proposal that, for the purpose of sending workers abroad, the conditions should be abolished so as to be accompanied by a contract of employment for this journey abroad. This is an open, uncompromising attack on the labour rights of migrant workers or posted workers in foreign countries. Has this been through any mechanisms of social dialogue? No, no, no. Did this go through the Economic and Social Council? No, no, no. As employers, they voluntarily cancel collective agreements. Is this a social dialogue? Those who scream at the position of capital about social dialogue, please be at least so consistent as to point out this to employers as well as not that you normally raise your hands on anti-work measures that come through social dialogue. Come in. It's a question of development. The minimum wage performs a very important development function because it forces the least profitable segments of capital to increase their productivity. Instead of breaking their working backs, they have to start investing in development, investing in technology, their market penetration, building on creativity and so on. Why this has not happened in the major segments of the Slovenian economy, but it is as follows. Companies are organised in several segments with the political representation only having the least viable capital – where the intensity of work is highest and where wages are lowest. This is often recalled by economist Franček Drenovac. The result is that the most creative high-tech breakthrough sector is excluded from the debate on development between the state, labour and capital. On the other hand, development policy is dictated by those capitalists who can't do anything other than extort employees. Law on minimum wage for the social benefit, for the benefit of the workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. As the last debater, Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President. Yes, in fact, my predecessor, Comrade Kordish, gave me a very nice point. Today, he has again said some words that do not hold the most, and that is why it is nice to argue them, especially when we are talking about minimum wage. First of all, we don't have capitalism in our country. My friend Kordish, don't break him! We really don't have it, I hope capitalism is in the background, in history, where it started. But we have other things, a second period, which is not the most nice, but I would agree. We're not in an industrial revolution, not breaking it, please. But I understand your concept of pretending to be the worst thing in the world. Second, when you talk about consistency, you be consistent. This morning we have not supported the proposal of the economic representative and we are consistent. I'm talking to the entire National Assembly. And I think it's fair for you to say that out loud. Therefore, it is necessary to be assigned in spirit and to talk about what is yes, what is not, and how we view it. Yes, indeed, we all agree in this Chamber, as has been said many times before, that the amount of minimum wage is wrong, especially if we see that in fact it is only 2 euros higher than the threshold of risk of poverty. And that means it's time for something to change, but and it's always this but. [[...]] And unfortunately, my friend Kordish won't like what I'm about to say, but I personally agree with social dialogue. And I do not agree that we are working on social dialogue within the coalition, or coalition negotiations, or that even a coalition treaty is the basis of social dialogue. I'm asking you nicely, but it's not. Because if so, we have missed goals or concepts about how and when someone is making a deal. The other thing that seems important to me before we talk about minimum wage is that I always feel bad when we talk about minimum wage. And all we ever talk about is minimum wage. This applies in particular to all those who say that the simple economy will no longer function. Managers and managers talk about the need for such salaries and such rewards because they have success and results, they should look comparatively from the bottom, not from the top down. And to see whether all their workers are also happy or happy at home because they have a job; not just because they have a job, but because they love to go to work, and because they know that they have contributed to the fact that the whole pyramid will live up in the long run and will have a vision and development. I'm afraid that's not the case. And that's from the Japanese way of keeping the economy going. This is the period for which I do not agree that it is capitalism, but it is a brutal Japanese breakthrough, when they see no more man, but see only the curves, see only the profits and see only the owners who pressure them to see success on the control councils. And then it creates the problem that those who have the lowest wages are most often forgotten. Nor is it true and does it hold that there is a debate in Parliament today, because it is a bill of departure, that it does not need any social dialogue, because Members are not committed to it. Only one of the three social partners is involved, unfortunately that is not true. It is true that a number of parliamentary laws, which spoke of topics where social dialogue should have taken place, did not happen, were adopted. That's right. But it didn't excuse it to repeat itself and to keep doing it. And that is why I was not satisfied with the basic proposal we have today to say in a kind of silent way that we no longer need social dialogue. I therefore very much expect and hope that the government will succeed in bringing this social dialogue and this agreement to an end; and that when we come to the final stage of the proposal that we will find all the common language, that is to say, all three stakeholders who must continue to talk about it, and all of us who will decide at the end of this bill, as it will be, in line with the great majority and, I hope, with some serious acclamation. But the result must be that I will not return to the National Assembly in a year's time and repair something again. Because if that's the result, then we didn't do anything. Then we threw matter into the hands of the National Assembly, which is wrong; and this I kept repeating and will always repeat, because today we are in some kind of paradox. We reject the way we talk without social dialogue in this way, and we say, on the other hand, that the law must be adopted in order to make the lowest wage decent, worthy of man. It's the ones that have the least. There's one more thing I think is important about this subject. When we talk about social dialogue and when we talk about all three sides – the government, the union and the representatives of the economy – I have been terribly disappointed lately that the fact that one or the other does not want to talk and boycott this dialogue is constantly emerging. Once they're unions and once it's an economy. I'm sorry, social dialogue or those sitting there need to talk so much time, I'm not saying I have to make a date in 24 hours, I'm not saying they have to meet in one week, but they have to talk all the time. These are owed to all of us in this country because we have adopted certain rules of the game, that we have social partners and that we are negotiating. These hurtful stories and some protest – if, but now we are not going to boycott, and then we simply force the boycott into something that doesn't suit anyone – the union or the economy, depending on who it is, because they never reach what they originally built, but always come with some compromise and then they all accept it with a sour bite, either one side or the other. I never blame just one side. And that's why sometimes I wonder what the whole point is. Members, not just now, we have always asked in the past whether the social partners have agreed. And if they did, then we never had some serious problems in Parliament for discussion because we supported what they agreed. And that's the key. And I hope that the proposal will be made in such a way as to preserve a longer period before we meet with such material again and deal with it. I liked the discussion of one of the Members who also talked about when someone was talking about something. You know, economists sometimes laugh at us when they say that the president of the state, the president of the government sometimes has a salary of 20, 30 percent of that salary that the economist has, I'm talking about managers, I'm talking about leadership. And they just can't understand why we can't fix this. But when we talk about minimum wage, of course they don't talk about their salaries. And I'm not up for their pay cuts. Absolutely not. Far from it. But I am putting myself in the role of what would happen if we sitting here today are in a situation where we have to receive this minimum wage. It's the easiest way to talk. We who decide whether we agree to this or not. Another sentence was said. This was said by his colleague Kordish: “We have influence and therefore it is right to change that too.” That's not true, and I'll argue. We can have an impact, but I wish we didn't take advantage of it. If you understand what I'm saying. Yes, the easiest thing to say is that we have influence. No, we can, but I hope we'll only get in when we see someone play a certain topic. In the end, I would ask, the coalition treaty really has nothing to do with social dialogue. But if we're going to sell it successfully to the people, then we've really mixed pears and apples. And with all due respect, Comrade Kordish, you have said a lot of things, you are quite right, I agree; but there are many things you have kicked into the darkness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Comrade Kordish, I will listen carefully if you make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u118	Thank you. But if you don't like what I have to say, you can always give me a reminder. There's been a fundamental misunderstanding. The critical reactive part of my debate was directed at the duty-holders from the right-wing tribunal and not at us, who are standing in the same or at least related positions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u119	And your motion of procedure is? I didn't understand him, okay. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and the proposer will be given the floor. Therefore, first of all, I invite the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. As stated at the outset by the Minister and later in the discussions, the government supports the objectives of this proposal and the proposal; but also points to the importance of the time required to adapt the economy and the country at the same time. And in this regard, the appeal has also been made to give some thought to any change in the dynamics of the elimination of allowances from the minimum wage, of those left behind. And the second is that it may also be considered a little bit in relation to the formula as to the possibility of determining the range. I would also like to continue with the fact that, as soon as the proposal was tabled in the National Assembly, the government has endeavoured to ensure that social dialogue is achieved as soon as possible. For this reason, the Minister also took the initiative to join the Economic and Social Council. Although a shorter discussion was held there, it was not about the content of the proposal. In the coming days, given that I understand that this proposal will today be supported, we will try to step up this dialogue, we will ask the social partners once again to accept us in their midst, so that we may still have this substantive debate, we will see their additional concerns, proposals and so on, so that we can then gather them in an appropriate manner and probably present them to you as proponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u121	Thank you, too. Now Mr Luka Mesec, the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u122	Thank you for saying that one last time. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for the constructive debate. I must say that today's debate has been one of the most cultural until now in the National Assembly. And I am also pleased that many common points and consensus have been exposed, we have been looking primarily for this and not for the differences. However, I will answer some of the questions that have been raised in the debate. First of all, I would like to point out the fact that, at the same time as today's debate in Ravna, Koroškem, there is a sentence in all SIJ companies where, above all, the worst paid workers, those on or even below the minimum wage, require an improvement in wages. And in their demands, they are significantly more radical than today's proposal for minimum wages. They do not discuss whether wages will increase by 2020, 2021 and so on; no, they require an equalisation of the minimum basic salary to the minimum wage on 1 December, that is one week from now. They would cut off all wage classes in the collective agreement, which are below the minimum wage, within one week. They further require that all salaries be raised by EUR 120 gross by 1 February 2019 or that all salaries be raised by 5%. In this respect, my colleague from Desus is right. The minimum wage in Slovenia is the prevailing situation, and although the letters of employers' associations came mainly to us, the actual situation in the field is this – people see 3.6 billion profits in companies, people see what rewards some managers, tourism workers, see how the industry flourishes, shop workers know how to turn sales; and wage relationships will have to be fixed. I think the minimum wage in this sense comes at the last minute. This is also my second reading reference when we talk about the things the Secretary of State has highlighted today, especially the rate of elimination of additives and the potential ceiling on the 20% formula. In addition, I would say this: in 2019, the minimum wage will increase by around €30 net and roughly the same amount will be reflected in gross. The reason for this is that in 2012 the Pension and Disability Insurance Act was adopted, which from 2016 onwards provided that the basis for calculating contributions and taxes on the minimum wage was higher, although the minimum wage could be stagnated. At present, we are in a position where the basis for calculating taxes and contributions to the minimum wage is higher than the actual minimum wage. In this sense, too, we must catch up, and in this sense it is in the following year, because it is only a 30-euro rise, a huge space to also eliminate supplements, headed by the one for the working age that is the most unjust. All employees in this country receive an allowance at work, we get it from Members, we get it from teachers, we get it from all the employees, except for those on minimum wage, who can be counted and can work for 10 years, 20 years, 25 years; they are still on minimum wage because the allowance is included. I think it's one of the first things to eliminate. In response to the objection that this could make the employment of older people worse, the following would be answered: for an active employment policy, which is more or less a subsidy to employers for the employment of more difficult groups, 94 million per year. And a lot of these subsidies are about subsidising jobs for the elderly. We should not, not in such economic circumstances, seek excuses here, why we should not especially reward these older workers and give them what is theirs, at least a work-life allowance. And the third point I wanted to put to the end is this dilemma, how to pay higher wages. I think that 60 of us Members agree that the path outlined in the law is correct, but today the right-wing tribunal has said that higher wages must be achieved through tax relief. I've got a lot of objections to that. The first is that if we reduce the burden on wages, you need to know that there are more or less contributions to health care, pensions, social insurance, disability and so on. And if we lower that, it will be known somewhere, we must always work in trade-off mode: we lower our contributions, but it will be less for health care and it will be a longer waiting line; we reduce our contributions and it will be a worse pension. I don't think that's a solution unless we agree to this narrative logic, which the right-hand man likes to repeat -- let the country be a little bit less devoured. Today we heard a lot about the swallowing state. But it's not our country that's being devoured. Look at the statistics we use, and you will see that we are about where the Czechs, Hungarians, Poles and so on are. The Austrian state is much more devoured than ours if you look at how much tax it collects and consumes. The French state is inappropriately more devoured than ours, not to speak of Scandinavian or Iceland. And if we want to move on to the developed, we need to think about how to strengthen the role of the state, not shoot the countries in the knees. That's the first one. Secondly, from the right-wing tribunal, which has tried to bring the whole debate back to the tax debate today, I am a little lacking in a slightly fairer approach to this issue. Last time I read the analysis that goes like this. In the 1980s, in the socialist economy, residents or employees in Slovenia carried about 35% of GDP in the form of wages. Now that we have capitalism or Japanese capitalism, as Jani would call it, this share is still the same. Workers take 35% of the wages home. But the difference occurred in the rest. In the past, the public sector was controlled plus accumulation and so on, and now around 30% of everything is controlled by capital. And this one is the least taxed in our country. Again, look at the European comparisons and you'll see where we are. On the tail at property taxes and on capital. And this is well known for the development of this country and for the health care we can afford, the infrastructure we can afford, the development we can afford, how much support we can devote to young scientists who are going abroad. These are key development issues. And if we want to break into a club of more developed countries, we're gonna have to start thinking here. However, I am pleased that the proposal will be adopted today. We're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u123	Thank you very much. You've got your word. However, since the time set for the debate remains, I ask whether you wish to discuss it further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. Yeah. Then let me just warn the proposer and the representative of the government that they too can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone key. In this case, you'll have the last word. Now I'm opening the application. I find that Mr Andrej Šushmelj has applied and I give him my word. You have 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u124	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dearly esteemed colleagues, dear colleagues! In listening to today's debate, I would like to start with an introduction with a story that sheds light on Slovenia's attitude to work and wages. And I'd start with a graphic job as a postman. Slovenian mailmen carry shipments in cold, snow, summer heat. We all know their work, their painting profession. And what happens to the Post Office of Slovenia? She's threatening to lose her mailman. And colleagues from my left remember the story when the Post Office of Slovenia called on Serbian citizens to come and deliver their mail to Slovenia. You probably remember all that story that was causing a lot of dust. Finally, we read how one of the Serbian mailmen really came to Slovenia and in a few months he has been returning with a statement that such bosses for such money also have a home in Serbia. And he came back disappointed. Well, it's not the end of the story. At the end of the year, the Post Office of Slovenia proudly reports that it has about 6 or 7 million euros in profits. Respected colleagues and respected colleagues, 6 million and 7 million are a lot of postal wages, and this shows us how we feel about employees. Maybe we'd come to work with the Slovenian boys for a higher salary, but not at all. Costs of work, also pointed out by Comrade Trček, that people are not labour costs. If we start to view people as costs of work, then we can remember that this May was only 153 years since the end of a war on the other side of the Atlantic, which unfortunately gave some a tremendous increase in labour costs. Indeed, the American slave owners did not have the great cost of working with their labor that they bought on the market, then even propagated themselves, producing food for themselves, so that there was no great cost of work. At the same time, child labor in the mines was awakened in Britain. Children who work with their parents also do not represent high labour costs. Is that right? In short, these labour costs continued to rise and rise. Why? Because of the social sense, because of humanity, which is also at the heart of this debate today. Why the minimum wage? We can reduce everything to the balance between greed and the sense of humanity. I have also noted in the debate earlier that not all European countries have a minimum wage. When I did a little digging after that, I realized it wasn't true at all. Virtually all European countries have a certain minimum wage, which is always consensus, but it is not necessarily a consensus with the government. A typical case like this is Scandinavia. In Scandinavia, Parliament is not concerned with this, but with such a strong social sense, so strong is the union movement that virtually no one can work under such exploitative conditions beyond union knowledge. The minimum wage in Scandinavian countries, I searched and looked at Sweden, is always a consensus, a collective agreement between trade unions and employers. The government doesn't interfere. When Austria was mentioned, where there is no minimum wage, I also noticed a very fresh news online. In early 2017, a debate began in Austria, and the Austrian government instructed the unions to adopt a collective agreement and threatened – if you do not accept the employers of a collective agreement with a minimum wage, we, the Austrian government, will introduce it. I would not comment on Italy because it is a country of great difference. In Italy, too, this minimum wage is regulated by a collective agreement. However, you need to understand, for example, Milan or Calabria, that it is impossible to introduce one national agreement that will apply to the whole territory of Italy. And Switzerland, too. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your time is up. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, fifteen minutes after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law to supplement the law on the death and disability insurance. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I therefore give the floor to Mr Tomaž Lisc to the representative of the proposer for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u126	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, one nice greeting at a time! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have already observed two very unfair or discriminatory situations in the past mandate, affecting lower pensions, which we want to correct through the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance. The first objective of the novel proposal is to eliminate the discrimination that has arisen in the alignment of the period from voluntary non-compensation pension insurance. The second objective of the novel proposal is to eliminate the discriminatory nature of the different scope of the entitlements for the same amount of payment in former insurance undertakings from agricultural activities. The Novela thus proposes solutions for two groups of insurers or pension beneficiaries. As it is said, the first group are insured or beneficiaries who have acquired pensions under the applicable pension and invalidity rules and are in an unequal position with those who have been recognised as retirement periods without a purchase. The second group, on the other hand, were farmers who in the past paid the amount of insurance for the full extent of their rights and who were granted insurance for a narrower range of rights and thus a lower rate of pension when they met the conditions for obtaining a pension. The law proposes an exemption from the accumulated period after the ZPIZ-2, in such a way as to allow for this period to be accumulated before 31. 12. 2012 treats the same as the non-compensation pension period and as the period of voluntary insurance under the condition of payment of contributions. It is also proposed that a solution be made for pensioners who have been given a lower pension in order to take account of their non-compensation pension only to a new pension on the basis of their request. Pursuant to a proposal from the law, the Institute of Disability and Pension Insurance shall inform the beneficiary of this right within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. We also propose to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that a new article be added in the law, which will equalize the rights of former agricultural insurers according to the amount of contributions paid. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance shall issue, in accordance with a proposal for a law, a decision on harmonisation in a procedure established under an official duty. Ladies and gentlemen, since five minutes is not enough time for the real presentation of both solutions, allow only a few more facts. Today we have spent almost five hours discussing concepts such as discrimination, injustice and justice. In this law we have the opportunity to remedy the two unjust solutions that have emerged through the history of the adoption of the law on pension and disability insurance. Secondly, there has been a lot of talk today that no matter how much it costs, rights must be guaranteed to the weakest in our society. We're saving two groups here with one law. Thirdly, we hope that the debate on this bill will go in the direction of who is in favour of a solution or who is in favour of a new right; and not that we will discuss who is in favour of the proposer and who is against the proposer. We proposed a similar law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group at the end of 2017, but since the then President of the Government, Miro Cerar, resigned prematurely, there was no hearing in the National Assembly. It is true, however, that there is a lot of talk after the elections about improving the status of pensioners. We have a client in the National Assembly who has the name of a pensioner. We have a new client who wanted to take over the primate in due course with regard to the desire to provide better solutions for pensioners. We have a client who always, at least in words, advocates social weaknesses. We have a client who, in the past three mandates, should solve these problems as a social party and did not solve them. Therefore, respectable, whether you are the left, centre or right wing of this National Assembly, today we have time, place and space to resolve the two discriminatory and unjust solutions that Slovenian pensioners have. That's why we're asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u127	Thank you very much. In order to introduce the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Mr Tilnu Bozič, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u128	Dear President, honourable Members, welcome again! Let me begin by saying that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not in favour of the proposed law on supplementary pension and disability insurance submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, the first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to the proposal for a different non-compensation pension scheme, in order to take account of the period it has reached, we explain that PIZ-2 sets 65 years of age and 15 years of insurance as the primary or basic condition of retirement. At a lower age, only individuals who have worked effectively for 40 years or more can retire at a lower age, which is covered by the concept of an uncompensated retirement period. The provision that periods of voluntary entry and acquisition should not be taken into account in the period of retirement without a purchase has been harmonised with the social partners, and that is to say, 40 years of work is sufficient. The proposal refers to the new ZPIZ-2, adopted in 2017, which was the ZPIZ-2E, if you remember, which is for individuals voluntarily involved in compulsory insurance up to 31. 12. In 2012, this period of voluntary back-up insurance was taken into account as a non-compensated retirement period. We stress that there is a significant difference between the two cases. While the period of voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance, together with the period of compulsory insurance, has already been taken into account in accordance with past legislation as a so-called working period, the period accumulated has never been counted as a working period since the previous legislation. The proposed regulation would therefore constitute more favourable conditions of retirement than were also applicable under the PSIZ-1, i.e. the previous law in force, and at the same time more favourable than those agreed between the social partners, as already mentioned in 2012. Voluntary entry and acquisition of time are therefore two different institutions based on different bases and assumptions, and they have not been equally regulated under previous legislation, and we therefore consider that the current regime is appropriate. It was also confirmed by the Constitutional Court. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also opposes the proposal to equalise the scope of the insurance rights of farmers and other insurance companies under the 1983 ZPIZ, which has classified farmers in 2 categories, namely joint farmers and other farmers; and has created two different possibilities of pension insurance for farmers. In that case, the Government considers that there was no unequal treatment, since the legislator had legitimate reasons for different regulation. The obligations of the combined farmers were not comparable to other farmers and the legislator justified this category of insurers from other insurers by varying degrees of rights. The Joint Farmers combined personal work, agricultural land, labour resources with other members, and other farmers did not have to do so. Therefore, these categories of farmers were not in practice the same. The Government also considers that it is not necessary to change the regime which expired with the first Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted in a State of its own, namely the 1992 ZPIZ. For further clarification, as usual, it is at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek, in her name Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The proposed law before us addresses two areas of pension insurance, a way to deal with the accrued pension period before 31. 12. 2012 and the rights of former agricultural insurers. The proposer thus proposes to regulate the exemption of the accumulated period after ZPIZ-2 in such a way as to collect the period before 31. 12. 2012 treats the same as the non-compensation pension period and as the period of voluntary insurance under the condition of payment of contributions. It also wants to equalise the scope of the rights of former agricultural insurers according to the amount of contributions paid. The topic under consideration certainly highlights the challenges of ageing, which will increase if we do not address them properly. We must be aware that the period of voluntary inclusion in a pension insurance policy is still being taken into account. It is true, however, that these periods cannot be equated with pure working hours, which some consider to be deprivation and interference with acquired rights. This issue was also examined by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which found that the regulation which the applicant is concerned with is not inconsistent with the Constitution. Individuals also bought up a period of time before they could meet the conditions for obtaining a retirement pension. This includes the risk that these conditions will change over time and may therefore not be as favourable as they were when they decided to purchase. The determination of the conditions for the exercise of an individual right depends on the legislation which is in force at the time of its application and not at the time of its creation. With regard to the rights of former agricultural insurers, I will point out the following: the possibility of insurance, either for a narrower or wider scope of rights, was based on the different scope of the obligations imposed by the Joint Farmers and other farmers. Everyone thus had the opportunity and opportunity to decide for a wider or narrower scope of rights. I can definitely agree that this option of deciding was one of the major shortcomings of the system at the time, which was abolished or suspended only in 2013. At the same time, let us agree with the government that the proposal for legislation does not regulate the area sufficiently, because the problem is not only in low-income pensions, the problem is in low-income pensions at all. And the situation we've come up with will have to be solved in a different way. Maybe with a comprehensive change in the pension law or the demographic fund law, long-term care and the like. The government has promised to open a debate on the law and amending the law on pension insurance. In the Alenka Bratušek Party, we feel that the right way of solving this is a systemic approach to the problem, so we cannot support the proposed novel at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President; the Ministry. This time, the proposal to amend the pension law tabled in the procedure by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group refers to two, namely the acquisition of the age and rights of farmers. In view of the mass investment of individual substantive novelties in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the applicant could prepare a comprehensive reform of the pension system. In 2012, the Slovenian Democratic Party reformed the pension system as a leading party, which was certainly a successful project, but none of what it proposed in the past and this mandate to change was then attempted to correct. However, the alleged injustices that should now be tried to correct with regard to the acquisition of the age and also with regard to the rights of farmers protected for a narrower range of rights existed at that time. In general, we all know about the pension system that every reform seeks to exacerbate pension conditions. This is also necessary in some way in normal and gradual steps, as the population is ageing and the working conditions are improving from all innovations in technological processes. So it's kind of logical that people work longer. This was followed by pension reforms in 2000 and 2012, since, unlike the 2000 law and 1992 law, they were more divided into periods that are taken into account for full pension conditions. Thus, the totality of the period since 2000 is no longer included in the required full-age pension, i.e. domestically, it was not counted as an active period and voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension insurance had this property. The argument that the variable distinction between the acquisition of the period and voluntary inclusion in the compulsory pension insurance is in fact that insured persons involved in voluntary insurance are insured, whereas the persons who have acquired the period are not included in the insurance and have not taken on a regular basis the risks of insurance, but have accumulated for the fulfilment of the conditions or for a better rate of retirement of the year. Most of them did so after calculating what was more beneficial in their case. Of course, it is also clear that buying an age was not equally available to all for economic reasons. That we have taken a negative position in the proposal before us today, we are also convinced by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has not established the contradiction of such a regime of distinction between these periods. The Constitutional Court has decided that the implementation of PIZ-2 has not led to a deterioration of the situation of those who have acquired the period. It assessed that the expectations of the insurers that their situation would not change in any way, unrealistic and unfounded, irrespective of any changes to the laws in more than a decade. Similarly, the Constitutional Court has pointed out that the fact that these individuals have also accumulated a considerable amount of time before they could meet the conditions for obtaining age conditions also entails the risk that these conditions will change over time and that they may therefore not be as favourable as they were at the time they decided to purchase. Of course, this does not mean that their pension period thus obtained has been evaluated, or that it has been extended to their right to private property, since they still have certain rights in terms of purchase. In public, it is often misinterpreted that this period has gone to waste for the insured. This is not true, therefore, since the funds paid to them are taken into account when determining or determining the amount of the pension. In addition to the second proposal to equalise the scope of the insurance rights of farmers and other insurers according to the amount of contributions paid, regardless of the administrative category of insurer, Desusa’s position is also negative. A variety of pension and disability benefits between different categories of farmers, which were valid for a short period of time, is justified in our view. By virtue of the 1983 law, the legislator classified two categories of farmers and other farmers, and on the basis of their status and accompanying obligations, he created two different possibilities for pension insurance for farmers. In this regard, it was crucial that the insurer could decide for himself to join agricultural organisations and, as a result, also decided on the manner or extent of the insurance. Farmers who opted for the cooperative cooperation established with a view to encouraging agricultural development were thus encouraged by the possibility of a greater scope of rights, as they and the other members of the Joint Organisation were obliged to combine their personal work, agricultural and other land, labour and equipment and money and other resources. Since the cooperative claimed certain obligations from this group of farmers, it is understood from the assessment of the Desus Group that the legislator has given them more room for manoeuvre within the pension system than those who have not decided on such a form of farming. According to the Ministry or the Government, such an arrangement has never been disputed, nor from the point of view of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, nor from the point of view of the case law, therefore another reason why we do not agree with the proposal for a law in the Desus Group in this part. Members of Desus will therefore not support the bill or vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u134	The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will, of course, support the proposal for a law supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure. The law proposes solutions for two groups of insurers or pension beneficiaries. The first group shall be the insured or beneficiaries who have acquired the pension period in accordance with the applicable rules on pension and disability insurance. These insured persons and pension beneficiaries have accumulated the pension age in the belief that it will be considered a full retirement period. Since we have unanimously amended pension legislation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in such a way that the period of voluntary insurance has been recognised as a non-compensated retirement period, there are now persons with an uneven retirement age. The purpose of the law is therefore to eliminate the different treatment between the period of purchase and the period obtained on the basis of voluntary insurance, since both groups of insurers had a reasonable expectation that the purchase and voluntary insurance would be considered as conditions for retirement, as laid down in the law in force at that time. The law proposes an exemption from the accumulated period after the ZPIZ-2, in such a way as to allow for this period to be accumulated before 31. 12. 2012 treats the same as the non-compensation pension period and as the period of voluntary insurance under the condition of payment of contributions. It is also proposed that a solution be made for pensioners who have been given a lower pension in order to take account of their non-compensation pension only to a new pension on the basis of their request. The second group, however, are former farmers who in the past paid the amount of insurance for the full extent of the rights and who were granted insurance for a narrower range of rights; and thus a lower rate of pension when they met the conditions for obtaining a pension. On the basis of the discriminatory legislation in force until the end of the 1980s, they could not be protected for the full extent of the rights only because they were not united farmers, i.e. farmers who merged into cooperatives. This is despite the fact that some groups of insurers have paid the same amount as if they had been secured for the full range of rights. In this case, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance shall issue a decision on the harmonisation of the procedure established under its official responsibility. The law follows the principle of trust in law, the principle of protection of expected rights, the insurance principle, the principle of defence of social security and the principle of equality. As I said in the introductions, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposed law and we are ready to continue working with all parliamentary groups to improve the law in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Member Aljaž Kovacič shall have the floor of the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Before us is the novel of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which exposes two groups of insurers. A different arrangement of the non-compensation pension period is proposed and the unequal treatment of individuals who were up to 31. 12. 2012 voluntarily involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance and individuals who have acquired a pension by the same date. The applicants consider that both categories of insurers were in the same position, which should also be based on the new regime and that the two categories should be regulated in the same way. They therefore propose changes to the concept of the accumulated period. In order to regulate the situation of farmers, they also propose to supplement the previous provisions of the ZPIZ-2 in order to align the scope of the rights of those who have been protected by a narrower scope of rights with those which have been secured by a wider scope of rights. The pension system and all its specificities are sometimes difficult to understand. It is also difficult to adopt a broader amendment to the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance without creating a regulatory anomaly or perhaps an unfair position for some individuals. In order to remedy the injustices caused by the ZPIZ-2 on voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension insurance, Members tabled and adopted at the end of 2017 the amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. With the latter, those who have acquired a period of voluntary contributions and have been treated as working hours under the old law are considered to have fulfilled the pension conditions in the pensionable period without a sum. This saved those who paid according to the old law, since under the new law this period is not considered to be a condition for 40 years of uncompensated retirement, which allows retirement at a lower age without reduction. So no little ones. The basic rule of the pension scheme is that the rights of insured persons are exercised at the time the insurance case arises or at home — when the insured person retires. The system remains the same over the years. However, the conditions for retirement are changing as demographics, labour market movements and consequently the amount of funds available in the pension register and so on. The Constitutional Court has also decided that a different legislative regime is not disputed over the years, so today we cannot know what the conditions will be when we retire in 40 or 30 years. We do know, however, that the pension period we have earned will certainly be taken into account and will not go to anything. It should also be pointed out that the period accumulated under the new law is taken into account during the retirement period and that pension and disability insurance beneficiaries are granted rights on this basis. We can agree that individuals in the past have not acquired a pension right but an insurance or retirement age, which is one of the conditions for obtaining the right to a retirement pension. Moreover, there is no reason to take these periods into account or treat them differently from other periods sharing the same fate, especially since this would result in a more favourable treatment in relation to the previous arrangements. Even in the case of insurance undertakings from agricultural activities, there was no unequal treatment as the legislator had reasonable grounds for different arrangements based on the different scope of the obligations imposed by the combined farmers and other farmers. On the basis of the proposal made by the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc, we do not support the amendment of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Group of the Social Democrats, on her behalf by Member Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u138	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group notes that in 2012 the Act on Pension and Disability Insurance, known among people as the last pension reform, caused certain injustices which did not give rise to entitlements on the basis of contributions paid, while those rights were granted to other persons insured on different pension grounds. They believe that the amendments to this law adopted in the past year have not sufficiently corrected these injustices. They also note that different levels of rights are recognised for former farmers, regardless of the contributions actually paid, but in view of the different insurance bases that were once in force for farmers and their family members. For these reasons, they propose amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which would also recognise the pension age of the insured persons who acquired it before December 2012. At the same time, in the case of farmers, we would like to amend the scheme by taking account of the contributions actually paid, irrespective of the type of pension insurance in which they were included. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance would account for a new amount of pension for all these insured persons after the law has been enforced. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the correction of the injustices created through a series of pension reforms is certainly necessary. Despite all the corrections, our pension system is still extremely complex and imprecise. As a result, many often feel that the system is unfair and that the individual is unfairly treated. Due to the short average retirement age due to the rapid retirement and the low wages, as well as the history of finding ways to avoid paying social security contributions, pensions are low in our country. This has been the case for decades. The correction of wrongs is therefore an extremely sensitive area, because we can quickly create new ones, while we must be aware that all additional rights recognised, even though they are charged on the basis of the contributions already paid, must be paid from the current common funds of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. Placing in these funds reduces pensions for all or deepens the deficit of pension funds. It is therefore important, in addition to fairness, to base the change on clear calculations and assessments of the financial implications. This is the only way to make changes without new injustices and financial loopholes. We know that all that is said is also the awareness of the proposers, whether or not they would expect to define precisely the changes they are proposing. Unfortunately, this part of the bill is missing. The financial implications have not been assessed or assessed exceptionally flat-rately, so it is not clear how many beneficiaries there are, how many pension increases could be expected and the financial implications for the pension. All we can understand is the general contention of the applicants that the total annual cost would not exceed 20 million. However, such flat-rate estimates cannot justify amendments to pension legislation. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the correction of the injustices, including those caused by the other Government of Janez Janša through the last pension reform and the infamous ZUJF, but this must be done thoughtfully, on the basis of calculations, in dialogue with the government and the pension institution. We certainly expect the government to have a reasoned and well-founded proposal to remedy pension injustices. Support for this proposal, which has no financial implications, and we do not favour the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, in its name Ambassador Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u140	Respected and respected! Today's debate on this item on the agenda will be another repetition of what has already been seen and what has already been heard, which will show that in all previous discussions on related topics we have not listened or listened well enough or wanted to hear ourselves. However, it is right for all of us to express once again our views on the proposed solutions. First, a few words on the solution by which the applicants wish to supplement the transitional provision of Article 401 of the current pension law in order to equalize the scope of the entitlements from the insurance of farmers and other insured persons under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of 1983 according to the amount of contributions paid. We're talking about two categories, a group of farmers and other farmers. The Slovenian Democratic Party Group estimates that the current regime is discriminatory because two different administrative categories of insurers – farmers received different levels of rights for the same contribution, in favour of so-called united farmers. But the story, as always, is not uniform. The review of the legislative history shows very quickly that almost all the laws governing this area from 1972 to 1992 have separated farmers into two categories within the individual regime and have thus enabled them different rights and benefits. However, it is essential to conclude that, already in 2015, when the applicants proposed this solution for the first time, it has clearly demonstrated that the principle of equality means equality in the treatment of equivalent factual situations, not the different situations that we are witnessing in a particular case. We are talking about injustice, which is not really, because we are not talking about two different categories, which would have been in an unequal position from the very beginning, but about two categories that were in different situations on the basis of their own and, in particular, a voluntary decision. Each freedom of choice means a certain type of consequences, for the insured has decided to merge into agricultural organisations and consequently the method of insurance. The obligations of the Joint Farmers were so great that the legislator also separated this category from those of the same insurers with different levels of entitlements in the pension and disability insurance scheme, but were not prepared to accept these obligations. It is interesting that the current regime has so far not been successfully challenged on a judicial basis or before the Constitutional Court. Changes to such arrangements until the first attempt in the previous term were also not proposed in the National Assembly, nor at the time of the government, when it was led by the motioners of today's novel, although there was quite a bit of opportunity to remedy the alleged injustices. In the sting of last year's novelty of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which otherwise regulated the period of voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance up to 31. 12. In 2012, we are also faced with new attempts at different arrangements for the acquisition of pension periods, especially those individuals who have accumulated by the same cut-off date. Here, we must agree with the motioners that it is in the discretion of the legislator to amend a particular provision, even though the Constitutional Court has not established its possible unconstitutionality. Therefore, the proposed solution to the acquisition of the age of study and military is completely legitimate, but it is not our opinion that we hold a more serious professional opinion. This was also found by the Constitutional Court. Individuals who have been involved in compulsory pension and disability insurance until the end of 2012 and individuals who have accumulated a certain period before that date are unfortunately not in the same situation and therefore the same regime is not correct. The first fact is that already with the old pension law, namely ZPIZ-1, the accumulated period was not counted during the working period but was counted as an insurance period. It is an indelible difference that has led to different periods of influence on the amount of the pension and they still have them today. Another important fact is that by adopting the proposed solution, individuals would not be given equal treatment but would be able to provide for a more favourable treatment of the period of purchase. Retirement conditions would be as mild today as they were under the old legislation. And the rights granted would be higher. And let us not forget that insured persons who voluntarily entered compulsory insurance were actually included in it. Individuals who bought up a certain period of time did not, and thus did not regularly take the risk of insurance. Unfortunately, we cannot go beyond the fact that the financial consequences of the proposed law are unrealistically assessed. It should be stressed that, with any increase in already recognised pensions or future pensions, there will be a direct higher burden on the pension allowance and, indirectly, the budget. We will not support the proposal's modern centre of the bill in the Group of the Parties, as we estimate that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u141	Thank you very much. And last but not least, the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – has the floor, on her behalf, Member Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u142	Honourable Vice-President, Government Representatives, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In many areas in our country, we still have first and second-class citizens. Such injustices are most often brought from the previous system when some social groups, such as independent entrepreneurs and others, were undesirable. Among them were farmers. Speakers, colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, have reiterated this amendment. The legal arrangements for pension and disability insurance have in the past enabled the integration of farmers on different bases and the payment of different amounts of contributions. Other farmers were able to pay as high contributions as the combined farmers and were granted only insurance for a narrower range of rights. Thus, despite the same amount of contributions paid, they are recognised for different levels of entitlements in pension and disability insurance. Christian Democrats agree with the motioners that such a distinction between those in the same situation is unacceptable and must be addressed without delay. In Novi Slovenija we also support the proposal to regulate the exemption from the accumulated period after ZPIZ-2 by collecting the period before 31. 12. 2012 treats the same as the non-compensation pension period and as the period of voluntary insurance under the condition of payment of contributions. It is the duty of the State to create a level playing field for all citizens. Christian Democrats are constantly working on this. That is why we will support the amendment under consideration. We believe it is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Since there are many changes or cancellations, I would just like to point out that the first one to be discussed is Mr Jelka Godec, Member of Parliament Jani Möderndorfer. Now I give the floor first to the representative of the proposaler Tomaž Lisc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u144	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Apparently, the coalition doesn't believe its coalition contract. This is the first conclusion following the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In particular, the distinguished representatives of the coalition who oppose this law would remind you of certain provisions of your coalition treaty. Six customers, listen up! »Deaths must ensure a decent life for pensioners and pensioners. The State must endeavour to provide funds for this level of expenditure.” Furthermore, “assurance of a decent pension for all, prevention of poverty among pension recipients”. I've only told you a few key lines, respectable and respected. Now, let me just say that there wasn't enough time in the introduction to explain exactly what we want with both things to say a little bit more broadly. As far as this sumup is concerned, it has been said several times today that the PIZ ruined everything in 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall dare to do so. 23rd Extraordinary Session, 4. 12. 2012, vote on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, full vote on the law: quorum – 76 Members, for 76, against no one. The unanimous decision of that composition of the National Assembly. So please stop talking about how Janšev's PIZ did the damage. All in the current composition, including members of SD parties, Desus voted in favour of that law. And why we voted unanimously for that law. I am one of those who confirmed the "for" key, because I have confirmed the law in good faith that we are adopting good solutions that have been previously coordinated among representatives of the Ministry, i.e. most people at the Ministry of Finance, and especially at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where there are now the same officials or officials. For the marriage, the Association of Retired Slovenian Associations, the union, one and the other, employers. I think there were 5, 6, various organisations, collectives that said the PIZ was harmonised. Any deviation during the parliamentary debate – except with the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service – will be considered as a departure from the agreed proposal and the law falls. Therefore, only myself or on behalf of those Members of the current reference, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, may I apologize to all those who have been harmed by the current PIC. But once again, we voted in good faith that the law is harmonised and that it will be good and, above all, equal, fair and non-discriminatory to all. Because we trusted officials at the Ministry of Finance, officials at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, officials at those ministries, pension associations, unions and employers. That's why we unanimously adopted that law. But since we soon realized that the law was not purely just, so that officials and officials led us a little overboard, there were several attempts to change the pension law. One of them was successful. I think that in January of this year or last November the procedure was so called, I will dare say, Han’s law – Matjaž Han was first signed – which made a change in this sum. But the acquisition before 2012 was not taken into account at all. And that is why today I understand the representatives of the Ministry of Finance who say that it was different. Of course, a little terminology changes and they say, "Oh, before it was a different terminology, we can't help you. But that law, which was passed in January, was also approved unanimously. But that marriage saved only a thousand chosen people, and he forgot about 55,000 other people who met with the concept of getting together. And believe me, I know the story very well myself. I come from the municipality where the textile industry used to be established in Slovenia – Sevnica. Morning, Fox. It took about three, four months for people to see what we accepted. Since I was a Member, I had the order in front of my parliamentary office when the appalled ladies, as well as the gentlemen who wanted to collect or have bought up the working or military age or the student years in order to retire earlier, found that the law was unfair. At that time, it was my promise that we would correct the injustices sooner than later. But then it does not hold the conclusion of the SMC Member that the applicants had time. Only in 2012 was the so-called second Janša government, and we tried in 2014, 2015, 2017 and we are trying to correct in 2018 what was found during the implementation of the law that it is not as great as we accepted in good faith. In short, if it was the political will of January 2018 to correct the injustices of thousands of people, why is it now unwilling to correct the injustices of others. These beneficiaries are supposed to be $55,000. But not all who would take advantage of it would. Allow me to quote Mr Pope from the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which was on Turnout, RTV Slovenia, on January 5, 2018, where he gave quite some important information. Firstly, in his broadcast, Mr Pope said that 90 % of those who had bought up the era, of those 65 000, had already retired. So it is not only in retirement that there are 5,000 600 insurers who have reached the age of 31. 12. 2012, and this figure should only be added to the number of persons retired in 2013-2017 who have bought up the period. And if they had retired about a thousand, as has been said, that would mean that this law would have financial implications with about 10,000 600 insurers who have accumulated up to the age of 31. 12. 2012, which is much less than reported in the media. Furthermore, Mr Papež, you have said in the broadcast, and this is what we also differ today, that the acquisition of the period was much more expensive than voluntary inclusion in compulsory insurance. Today, we hear that those who bought it did not take any risks and were in a better position to do so. Look around you those people who have recently retired and have been thinking about buying what amounts they have given in the hope that they will retire as soon as possible, that there will be no marriage, accident and make them perhaps a new discrimination, a new injustice, as we accidentally did in 2012. As for what you said most of the time today, for the first time, since the Constitutional Court said there was nothing unconstitutional. Does this mean that we will now save only those laws that are unconstitutional in this mandate? The Secretary of State also said that there was no need to change the law. But I can, but it would be the will of us 90. We had previously passed the law when the government said – hop, boys, not like you introduced the Minimum Wage Act; slower. To change. Now we have listened to the views of coalition parliamentary groups based on this government response, although the current situation is not contrary to the Constitution, so there is no need to amend the law. I can do it. If today's first reading is to let the law pass; and then, like the Minimum Wage Act, which we have dealt with today during the second treatment on the labour force, or then in another, perhaps even the third treatment in the National Assembly, we will let one over to suit all those who have been wronged. Of course, with the knowledge, once again, that we will not do any more injustice. The other thing is about farm pensions. Don't think people can make their own decisions, please. In my opinion, the 1983 law even deliberately distinguished between first-class farmers and second-class farmers and even distinguished between a male member of the cooperative family and a woman who was unfortunately not a member of the cooperative because she was such a system. That is why we are talking today about women in these rural pensions. And so once again, we do not agree, the SDS had the opportunity to arrange, and I will tell you how we proposed: "Request for a joint emergency meeting of the Committee on Labour and the Committee on Agriculture. The problem of the social situation of the older rural population. Proposal for a Decision: The committees shall propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within one month, to carry out an analysis of the social and health situation of farmers and to prepare concrete legislative proposals to improve their position, which the National Assembly may adopt by the end of 2018." The coalition – SD, Desus, SMC – was against this decision. And we came up with a bill in 2018, SDS. We have already tabled a similar law at the end of 2017 and it has not come into procedure. We had already announced a similar law in the so-called Han Law, when we proposed an amendment that would solve this in terms of getting together, there were excuses: You didn't give her the right article, but when you put it in the right article, we will, of course, support it. Even the Members of the House of Desus said, "Bring the law, we will support it." Members of the Left were then in order to remind them how they would vote today. Two SMC MPs voted against the law because they said it was wrong because only a thousand people give something better, and 55,000 people are still worse off. But apparently something has changed, and today you will not support this marriage. I do not agree with certain flat-rate matters, such as: For the law is not against constitutionals, people have paid less and so on. Don't hold it. And about the financial effects. It has been said that the removal of wrongs in return can be problematic, we can commit new injustices. Be honest, with the Minimum Pay Act there will be new injustices because there will now be a new group, which now has more than a minimum wage, and now they will have a minimum wage. Once again, this range will be reduced to the detriment of someone, but here we have the possibility of first-reading, second-reading on the committee and then at the meeting of the National Assembly. And that there will be no financial consequences, we do not have the data and therefore we expect to bring the law first to the mother's working body and then together with the people from the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance we get the exact numbers. [[…]] You know, we can ask the question of a letter and you get some weird answers. And with the ministries, they say, contact the Department of Disability and Pension Insurance. And we expect, I think, that it will be necessary if you change your mind until the vote, that we get all the data, how many of these people who have the opportunity to collect, and how many of these farmers who have still paid more than was the basis, and the system has made them second-class and have a lower pension. And today there were talks about numbers: 600 — that is the minimum, 600 — so are the minimum conditions for normal survival. Your Honor, do you have any idea what kind of pensions you're talking about? I hope you won't say that these poor farmers, especially older farmers than some ugly capitalists who are doing something bad in this world. For pensioners who have been recognised solely on the basis of the pension period for the purpose of carrying out agricultural activities, the average amount of pensions is the table: two-thirds of them have a pension of between 150 and 300 euros. Where you are now those advocates, how the minimum wage of €700 must be, how the minimum amount must be for survival of €680 and several more. We have over two thirds here. Or more than 600 euros – one, two, three recipients of nearly 2,000 farm users. Where are you now? One to six hours ago, you were all – social, justice, elimination of discrimination, poor people, new marriage, wrong candidate, forget about social, go to new injustices, go to new discrimination, because – once again – there is a wrong law. There was so much again in this pre-election time of June speech – a different policy, a policy of consensus, a policy for citizens. Today you have the opportunity to press "yes" in this vote and take one step in what you said in the pre-election period and even now that individual presidents of coalition parliamentary groups are knocking, who will do more for the pensioners. Many words, misdeeds, this apparently led these policies and more further.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word is Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u146	My friend Lisec asked where the fighters are now for the elimination of injustices. They're gone. Not because they failed, not even on the left, but because they failed at the previous point when they fought for political points. Because if we were to fight for the elimination of social differences, the elimination of discriminatory matters in our pension system and society in general, we would be sitting here today. We'd be sitting here right now, but they're gone. Apparently, it's time they can't take it anymore. My friend, it's an honor to have you sit here right now. But I suggest to the government that you do two samples of the government's opinion. In the first sample, write – the law is not systemic, the law has a flat-rate assessment of the financial consequences and the law is not consistent with the social partners, so we will not support it. In the second sample, write – the law is not systemic, we could solve better, the law has flat-rate or has no assessment of the financial consequences and is not consistent with the social partners, but we support it. If the investor is SDS, New Slovenia or SNS, it is the first sample, you understand. But if they're coalition candidates, then they're a second sample. Because what we read when we get the government's opinion for our laws is the same thing. The previous Minimum Wages Act has an estimate of the financial consequences of zero. Zero. However, you find that there are very large, more than 7,000 people on a minimum in the public sector, but the result will be zero. Yeah, it's in the law. Today, however, we are told that our marriage has a flat rate, but it has a flat rate; and that is why it cannot be supported. Government, please, if you want to be innovative, because you have one customer new with you, make such patterns, and then add that text, because no one, because the model for the coalition, the ones you support, and the coalition MPs read it, is the same. [[…]] Be the same for everyone because you are not, you do not act discriminatoryly to political parties who suggest something. As far as the bill itself is concerned, the best statement is that Desus said that the SDS had a chance to correct this injustice. They've been in the government for years, and they're the ones fighting to eliminate the injustices of pensioners, that is, the peasant pensioners. A colleague also said that the committee was rejected by coalition parties to eliminate these injustices; and then they tell us that we are going to do something to repeat ourselves. That's one thing. Second thing. Today you've all said well how unfair the previous system was. But you didn't say it in words, but you said when you explained that they were one of the first-class farmers and the rest of them were second-rate farmers. Why? Some were united farmers and others were farmers. And another thing, farmers had green health books. When they came to the doctor, the doctor knew exactly where they belonged and how much they could treat him and what services they could give them. That's how fair the previous system was. And don't say they could have made their own decisions. In 1983, a number of people decided to join each other because he was, in fact, rewarded and left alone. That's nice of you to say. But he who was not a companion and did not choose to do so was punished, and today he is punished with a lower pension. And you don't want to end these injustices. And there's something else, like my friend said. These were women, women of farmers who were operators and were united farmers. However, a woman may have paid the same as him, but she was not granted the same scope of rights, i.e. a smaller scope of rights. As my colleague said, the greatest injustices have happened to women and they are still happening today. And then comes the lady who sells at the market. Ask them how many pensions they have. 275, they show a copy. He says – I paid the same as my husband, because I have such a low pension. I believe that in the coalition you have the answer that you will be able to answer these women who will come to your office because you will say - because the previous regime has been fairer, we are even more just and think that this is the right thing to do. 275 euros. Sir and lady of my district, I won't tell you exactly where. He has 325 euros in pension, a farmer, she has 275. And then he says, "Yelka, how do we survive? Social assistance is 395. Is that justice in this world? In the previous regime, we were struck by the fact that me and her were paying the same, that they recognized smaller rights, and now they don't want to fix these injustices. Even that's what I have to watch. My son's in social services. That's what he tells me. What does that have to do with anything? Oh, it's got a lot to do with it. And there were also mistakes that some have paid as much as they have, but they have been seduced as other farmers, not as cooperative farmers. Once again, you've all told us today how the previous regime discriminated against farmers, not to speak to the rest of the population, but today you don't want to fix it. And people paid for it in the pension box. I had seen earlier when Comrade Tomaž explained that some in the middle were sneezing. I think they agreed to this sneezing. I want to know what the vote will be. Do we have another party that are somehow, thinking with their heads people. [[…]] I hope so. They nod and see that there have been injustices; but not because it is necessary to vote as they are called. In 2010, Svetlik's Law, which was adopted in 2010, came into force in 2012, abolished state pensions that had at least slightly corrected this injustice or had at least a few people in that state pension. Then Svetlik of the most social party stopped it. And again today we hear — no, it's no injustice, that's how it was, they had a narrower range of rights, and so be it. I hope, once again, that you have at least a shred of conscience and that you know it was a mistake; and that you will come, a government, with a system law, because obviously we can't write anything. With the system law, with a real financial assessment, in line with all the social partners, along with Desus, let them be the proponents for a new pension law, and that you will fix all of this in this mandate, all of this. We expect this from you because if the obvious opposition is unable to do so, because you are so smart in the government that you will do so, because you are saying this, at least as far as I am concerned, since 2014, when was the first term. To this day, one and the same giggle: We will make it more systematic. Now do it, because you've only done a little jurying around the ministries, and you know how to do these things. I will not focus on those who have paid, but today they cannot retire as they thought they would; because they have paid, they have given money to the pension fund, today they do not have the same right as the others. You know what people say? Then let them give me that money back. Where you put that money, they tell me. Did you eat it in the National Assembly? No, we didn't; because some don't want to eliminate these injustices. Yeah, it was 2012. And now that we want to correct the injustices, it's obvious to us that you're not already 2012, I don't know what you're doing. However, when the Minister of Labour comes to remedy the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds that you have adopted in the previous mandate, he fixes it, and today, state grants, child allowances, kindergarten payments are delayed in this area; everything is fine. Fighters to eliminate discrimination, social poverty and so on. These farmers, these people live below the poverty line. Yesterday we listened to how you fight, today we listened to not how many hours that everyone there has failed, but now there is no one else and you will all vote against – for only one reason, because this is the opposition's proposal. And don't ever say coalition again: let's do something together.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u148	Dear Members and Members, good evening! Today's debate shows two characteristics that have emerged in this new mandate. The first feature is that if a law comes from the opposition, then simply a coalition is not interested and it is agreed in advance that it does not support it, does not listen or does not care about the arguments. That's the first conclusion. And as I said, my great disappointment, because I expected from these new parties a different, new policy that dialogue would be a more important thing, so that we can agree on something, and even talk, and eventually take things together. Even some posters showed up: the country, the community, the man. This would also apply to the practice of working in Parliament. That's one point. The second conclusion is very interesting that when the right part of the political space finds a mistake, it admits it and tries to remedy it. On the other hand, I can't feel that desire. I know it's sometimes hard to say the word sorry, we've made a mistake; but this House would have a much more human expression and face, if that word were to be forgiven, we've made mistakes, we've used it many times and we've served it. What does the law offer today? It's the elimination of some injustices since socialism. Today in the southnostalgia, a lot of people say how great socialism was, but then on such occasions you see that maybe everything wasn't so pink that they were more alike than each other and so on. And today we have a case of farmers who have paid for their pension or, say, a pension fund. And, interestingly, socialism has made a difference between those who were ours and slightly less ours. The system was such that two farmers could pay the same amount for the pension, but those who were slightly more ours, I speak in moderation, had more rights to pay this payment into the pension system. For the same payment of different rights. This was true in socialism or, as they called it, the united farmers and other farmers. So much for how equal and happy we all are, or everyone should be happy in the former regime. That was a mistake. I think that this was an ideologically conditioned system error that caused huge injustices – for the same payment of different rights. And where was the error of the right hand or government in which we also participated in New Slovenia? When the second pension reform was adopted in 2012, this correction of injustice simply escaped us. We did not properly arrange it in the then pension reform. Today we acknowledge this mistake. There's a marriage here to make up for this mistake. It is a clear, transparent, just thing that should get equal pay of equal rights. Very simple, equal pay – equal rights. It's a bill, the coalition says no. I am therefore returning to what I started, which is that it is a shame that at the beginning of the mandate we started in such a way that everything which is opposition must be rejected by definition, even though the opposition serves regular procedures, although the opposition allows the government coalition to adapt our laws, correct them, because the opposition does not have a majority, the coalition has it. The procedure for the adoption of laws in the National Assembly is such that the opposition is likely to always or always come with a first hearing, which is general where we talk about principles; and then, if the law is adopted at first reading, the second hearing, where we are specifically discussing articles and where the contribution of the coalition would be crucial in order to obtain the systemic law you want. But the problem is that then, you stunk when this law was passed, someone might say that it was proposed by the opposition or that it came from the opposition. And that's the key element that bothers the coalition that it's not ready for dialogue. I have no problem and no problem if by the coalition we hear that what you are proposing is a problem, we do not agree with that, the ministry can give you a full list of the problems you have. But since we are open to dialogue because we want to talk and come to common solutions, we will sit at the same table between the first and second readings of this law and try to find as many common denominators as possible. In the end, he has the crucial word of a coalition that has a majority. This would be an inclusive approach, an approach based on dialogue. But today we are far from it, and most likely those who warn us about these things, we are lonely, we call in the desert, because virtually no one hears us, the coalition has decided and things are moving on. I feel bad about political culture, I feel bad about the political system and generally about the future of Slovenia, because if politics is not based on dialogue, but only on an argument of power, then unfortunately we will not go far.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Carmen Furman.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The current regime is unfair and discriminatory; and this is the only reason why we are applying for a change of law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the positions put forward by the coalition parties, you touched on the Constitutional Court's decision, which allegedly allows for a different legal regime and that the Constitutional Court does not see the contrary in such a regulation. But here let us not forget that the Constitutional Court, in its decision on the measure of pensions, has also taken the view that the principle of equality must also be applied to the recognition and assessment of pensions, that the recognition and the assessment of pensions in substance depends mainly on the contributions paid. Here I am talking about the principle of equality that the scope of rights is determined according to the amount of contributions paid by an individual and not only to an administrative category of individual insurer. And here, legislation in force is certainly inconsistent with the principle of equality. You must admit this, however, because the same cases are dealt with differently. Under the current legislation, pensions are treated differently by insurers irrespective of whether they have paid the same or the same amount of contributions, and today they are recognised as having different levels of rights. And this is the criminal regime that we want to correct in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The next is Ambassador Franz Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Pensioners are always part of a population that is interesting to all political parties, especially before the elections. We know that there are 600,000 pensioners in Slovenia. The fact is, in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we defended the view that it was necessary — and that this is enshrined in the coalition contract — to regulate the regression and the percentage. The fact is that this has failed in its entirety because of such or other facts and that the regression has been paid out differently than we have proposed. Today we are talking about supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act covering two segments of this pension population. Although this area needs to be regulated in my opinion, the fact is that our position is that these matters should be regulated systematically, in full, because favouring one part of the pension population does not bring global solutions, and this is that this needs to be discussed as a whole, for all pensioners equally. I'm sure the law will be passed in the future. I would like this to be an amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, where all wishes, if they were financial real wants, would enter into this law and actually solve the problem that seems to me with this change and addition is really very partial. Favoring one pensioner structure is not intermediate, and therefore I will not personally support this change and supplementation. Once again, however, it is possible for the government to start drafting the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which will solve matters in full and will bring a better position of pensioners in Slovenia, as the current pensions are lagging behind my assessment. A large part of pensions are below the standard of normal living and this struggle of pensioners with a cruel reality is difficult. That is why I stress once again that I will not support this law, but I will be awake and, together with the Party's Group of Alenka Bratušek, we will strive to reach a new, modern law that will treat all pensioners equally and will go to their benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u154	Thank you very much for the words and the opportunity to talk about this subject as well as in general about all these social trends that have taken place and are taking place in this mandate. First of all, to all those who say that the law has no financial implications or that they are not good enough. The President of the National Assembly shall be the one to determine whether or not the law is appropriate for the application of the procedure. And if the President of the National Assembly defines this as a suitable law, then today we have it without any reservations on the table and treat it as such. It's a rule in this national council. Any law that does not meet the conditions is rejected at this stage of the investment, goes to supplementation and then reinvests from there. That's not what happened in this case. And all those criticisms, when you say that the law is incomplete, that there are no financial consequences, are depressed. And then the right address is the one who signs the law to invest in the GP, as we say. Secondly, I think it is also extremely problematic for you to face the underdefined or defined financial consequences. You have passed laws already in this mandate, which have been less defined by content, less defined by financial consequences, worse produced solutions; you have not had any reservations at all. None. Not the coalition party, not the one who makes the fate of coalition parties, no one. I would like to remind you, however, that I am surprised that this policy of rejecting any proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party has been going on since 2012 or 2013. This isn't about substantive issues. This isn't about me not knowing any things right now. But the moment a bill with the SDS is introduced, it is rejected in the coalition. This happened with Bratušk, this happened with Cerar, and this is what is happening in this mandate with Sarc. And the Priors. Neither of you there can reasonably explain why this is happening, or explain why you will reject the law, but it happens to a priori. And you all refer to the last or the last paragraph of the government's opinion and then you trim something and talk about it. Nothing else is going on like it has been. I would like to remind you that a few days ago you confirmed the law on so - called unemployment benefits or whatever we call it. In the amount of 392,75 euros. The moment you accepted this solution, 75 thousand,592 pensioners fell below that threshold. 75 thousand 592 pensioners have a lower pension than your social income of 392,75 euros. This is government information, the answer to parliamentary questions. Now I'm asking you if this was the right solution. Because in this part of the relationship between unemployment and paid pension, it highlighted such a mistake and so different. You've helped 50,000 unemployed people, and you've wronged 75,000 pensioners. You have not dealt with all social groups in a proportionate and appropriate manner. When it comes to pensioners, you are talking about decimals and 1% of the harmonisation, and in that unemployment measure you waved and gave 95 euros a month more. One or two per cent of the reconciliation of pensions, ladies and gentlemen, does not come to an annual level of 30 euros. With this compensation, which you accepted a few days ago, you raised this difference by €95 a month, without in any way interfering with the pension structure. And you put it in a significantly poorer position, although even from the work of the pensioners creating added value, social transfers pay. Those who have made advances, all of us who pay our contributions are essentially paying advances to the pension fund so that one day we can benefit from these things. And these people are in a worse position than those who are unemployed, but they have paid completely all the contributions to health and pension insurance. I'd say so much about that act. The next thing regulated by our law is to correct the injustices of the period prior to the independence of the peasant insurers. My colleagues explained the problem very well earlier. There's nothing to add. Double criteria of socialism, double criteria of socialism, even for the same categories of insured. For farmers in cooperatives, one criterion for non-cooperating farmers is another criterion. For those who were in cooperatives, for one member of the family, one criterion, and for those who were not in cooperatives, he is a member of the same family, another criterion. They said it was mainly women, because agricultural operators were men and were generally men. And although we have repeatedly warned of this error, even now, there is absolutely no hearing to eliminate this discrimination, absolutely no hearing to eliminate this discrimination. I must say honestly, I also miss the response of the Minister of Agriculture, the current Minister of Agriculture and also the former Minister of Agriculture, who is currently holding the meeting. No one once stood up for these injustices committed by farmers, not once, not in this national council. And there's no other way to explain it than to continue this ideological battle between the towers and the proletarians. You can't explain it any other way. The average Slovenian farm has about 3 and a half hectares, a thousand 500 per year falls or 3,000, now I don't know exactly what the data is; but it certainly falls. And there is no one in this country who would try to establish an appropriate policy and correct the injustices that were knowingly committed in the previous term; not the mandate, even during the period of socialism in the previous country. He's not here. And now I ask all those who say they don't belong, they can't, and so on, why is that not possible? Earlier mention was made of Svetlik's law, the time of the Pahor's government and the abolition of state pensions, a large part of these state pensions were affected exclusively by farmers. Do you have any idea where the money from these state pensions was going? For the widow's work after the insurance companies of JLA. That's what Potts suggested here. This was the case, for payment of rights and changes in widowing work by JLA officers. It happened, it's a fact, you can look it up, you can check it out. And now someone here is talking to me about justice, social justice and justice. No wonder there's no one here on the other side, there's no SD, there's no Left, they're all quiet and they're not saying anything about it. How can you have within you the obvious violations, the obvious irregularities, not rectified? How can you be like this? Here it was said earlier how much a farmer's pension was, Jelka said 270 euros, man 300. All these farmers have a substantially lower pension, and they paid something in a pension box such as this aid that you have now legalized – 392,75 euros. Do you think that's weird? Don't the marbles react to you so that it doesn't work? That someone who may not have paid in the pension register has received more than the one who regularly paid in the pension register. Don't you think something's not working here? You're graduates like us, you're masters, you have other academic titles, and that's not good for you. But if you're drawn to it, then you don't act and you don't do it and you don't fix it out of anger to these insurance companies, or you can't explain it to yourself. Because so many times this topic was in the National Assembly that someone with a healthy mind would have to react. The question is, here we have these insurers who have paid for a larger and smaller amount of rights, they have paid. They probably do not have all the rights, not those who paid for more rights, not those who paid for less rights. They probably don't have a properly calculated pension either. Are you prepared to return money to those people who have not paid it — by valorization, by late interest, and so on? That's the next question. If they haven't already been granted pension rights, what they expected, why doesn't that come back to them? We have paid many injustices, I think it would be fair, responsible to the responsible country and responsible authorities. Don't do that, and just say that the law is non-systematic. We have a system law, we correct the anomalies of the system law with these solutions. And it's the most normal thing to do if it's found out that it's over. If you find EUR 6 million, you now have in you to develop civil society, give 2.3 million to correct injustices to farmers, those who have for decades denied them the right to an honest pension. If this farmer makes an application inadvertently for a social security claim, you will enter a mortgage on the property. Will you do the same to everyone else? Those to whom you proposed 392,75 euros for the unemployed are also mortgages? Why are we leading an ideologically guided, shameless social policy? There is no problem for some social groups that are in the interest of a left-wing sphere, or for the development of a civil society that is in the interest of a left-wing sphere, in which many, including from the Left, participate in a fifth-party work as Members, and that is why this money is collected there so that additional money can be collected. Where there is a real problem, you simply do not find the source of power, willpower and thrust your head into the sand, establish and hold these injustices further. What's the point? I'm asking you all here. We have another solution where it is proposed that those who have paid and bought certain things before 31 December 2012 be corrected there too. There's even a definition of how many of these people there are and how much money there is. Before 31. 12. In 2012, almost 56,000 people did not take these additional amounts into account. They weren't taken into account. Why wasn't they taken into account? We all know that. They weren't taken into account, and now that we're proposing that these people too, these 56,000 people get fixed and taken into account, you're up against, again. What's the reason? Is this a group that doesn't deserve this? This group paid and paid and bought by high amounts what was offered, student and military years. And when they retired or earlier, they couldn't make it happen. You are prepared to provide them with a refund of these paid bought-out years and military student years, with valorisation and adequate late interest, because this is the next step. That makes sense. Because if you go to the store, you pay for something that's wrong, you advertise. This applies to insurance farmers; this also applies to these insurers. They paid one and the other in the pension box, they didn't get the services, they didn't get the benefits. The advance's gone. That's an advance. What we pay in the pension box is an advance. You spend your whole life paying for the advance so you can end up using something. Apparently, some groups that have been scribbled by legislators and law enforcement officials and are not ready to admit that they have been cheated; they are not even ready to return. This is the situation we're talking about right now. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, we are not talking about giving some social transfers to someone, but about correcting what they paid and not getting properly accounted for when they retired. That's all this is about. We're not saying that we're going to give someone something for the development of civil society, now that you've got 6 million in the law on the implementation of the budget. We give nothing here, we give nothing there, and the question is, what will come out, three or fifteen revolutionary societies where Members will execute and draw out money with a fifth part. That's it there, that's not the problem. This law on the implementation of the budget has been confirmed by an urgent procedure, because otherwise the system will collapse in the following year, but these 6 million for the development of civil society must be in there. But there will be no money or injustice for these people who have paid their money for their insurance, either as farmers or as those who have bought things. That's perverse what you're doing. You deny people what they paid for, and you reward some so that some who are close to various civil society can get there professionally, pump out as experts, counselors and do not know what else is a fifth job. [[…]] All the way to the end. Demagogue to the end. You're talking about minimum amounts for survival, and here someone gets 275 euros because he even paid his pension, maybe even 40 years. You can imagine what that is. But someone who hasn't paid anything in this system, and I know that he needs help because he can't get a job or he's threatened otherwise, he needs help, but he gets more than the one who paid. That there will be no misunderstanding, I am not against social assistance, but I am opposed to those who have paid 40 years in a system worse than those who have not paid anything yet. If a few days ago, when this law was passed, you raised all pensions for 70 euros, it would be acceptable, but you did not. And because you didn't do it, we now have 75,000 pensioners who are worse off than those who will accept from 1. 1. forward monetary compensation because they are unemployed. It's a fair measure. Let those pensioners we're talking about right now do what's minimum. You can cover everything in there, and for those 75 000 who have now fallen below the border, you can fix pensions for 95 euros a month. These are measures that are proportionate because at the expense of one group we do not sink another group. Because you saved one because you saved 30 or 50 thousand unemployed, you're 75 thousand others. This is not a social policy and this is not a policy. It's a jigsaw. It's a jigsaw. It's a jigsaw. And because that's what they tolerate in finance, then there's the rainforests. In this way we cannot lead any social policy and you will not carry out any reform because such reform is impossible because you are not able to do it; and that is why it is not. There has been no reform for six years. That's why they're not here because you don't work on them. The last serious reforms were in 2006, 2007, which meant reform of systems. From then on, it's like a bakery, one's done, the other's spoken, and the system's nothing. And it's just a new disproportionate. I suggest you, my dear colleagues, support this law. If the law is now adopted, it will not be until January at the next reading, it is necessary to know this, because it will not be at the hearing in December. Until then, all the relevant criteria and data necessary for the implementation of this law, including the comparison with all these laws that you have now adopted, as it is unacceptable for farmers to have EUR 270, 275, and the social assistance for the unemployed is EUR 395. 120 euros gets less. He's already gotten less of this farmer, and now he gets 120 euros less per month. And these anomalies, the people of God, must be repaired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, you have the floor, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Even when I'm not sitting here, I have this ratings as chairman of one committee that I have a TV and I can listen to what they say. That's perverse what you're doing. I agree with the speaker in front of me. It's perverse because of two things. This issue should definitely be addressed, but not by blocking the implementation of the budget, ZIPRS, and not by insulting civil society, which has actually mirrored politics in a narrower sense. And part of this civil society is also that civil society, which is often overly patriotic. My procedural proposal is that Mr Tanko apologizes to us and apologizes to civil society as a whole. And someone who is 18 years in the National Assembly should not have such a double conscience, especially if Mr Tanko is Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u157	You suggested Mr. Tanko apologize. Mr. Tanko is going to continue to hold the meeting. He will have the floor so that you can continue the dialogue. Does the government representative want to answer the question? Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. This debate, which has now been last, has gone far beyond what is today a proposal on the table. It's a little difficult to comment on everything, but on a few basic issues, it's still worth warning about. Farmers are a special social group and this country, and the company recognises them as special status, special regime and special rights. They, like the others, are also subject to the social state, the social security system and the network, which is also envisaged in this regard. At the same time, if we are talking about the pension system, our pension system is based on actuarial logic, depending on how much you contribute to this system, you draw as much out in the end. Social corrections will then improve if this is not enough. If we look at the current situation in pensioners, about €40 per month is paid for a narrower range of entitlements, almost €80 per month for a wider range of rights. If we recalculate a little bit what happens in 40 years, let's use the same amount he's going to collect, at a lower level, that would be about 19 000 euros, at a wider scale of around 38 000 euros. It has to be taken into account that there is about 17 years in retirement, which means that it draws around €40-50 000 out of the system, depending on the range, depending on the pension it has; which means that some corrections are already installed here. No other social group, even if we look at espies or employees, has foreseen such contributions that at the end of the day, after 40 years full rights or those rights that may somehow be achieved by employees can also be achieved. If we look at any of the figures listed above, say if you are insured for a wider scope and have worked 40 years, I currently have the information that the farmer has about 450, or more, euro pensions, which were foreseen by that adjustment, say the EUR 515 per month. Their payment to the system was disproportionately lower than, say, to someone who was espé, employed or otherwise. This special status and the social importance of farmers for processing, for the self-sustainment of the country, is reflected in different layers. We are also talking about how they have established, say, a tax regime in terms of the law governing cadastral income, and some of the solutions were also in the previous mandate, which led to certain intensive crops being considered as flat-rate taxation. I've already mentioned the contributions. Of course, they also benefit from the social security system of certain transfers, and from here on out, which is not negligible, everyone is likely to know very well the power or weight of the European agricultural policy and the fund envisaged for it. And there's a lot of available resources. From this, Slovenia is also relatively successful in drawing and establishing certain programmes that make life easier for farmers as far as farmers are concerned, this is about the acquisition of funds and so on. It's a comprehensive perspective. That is why I say that when it is on the table, we are talking only about one partial proposal, but it is always necessary, in my view, to take into account the situation of the farmer in general, which are also the other measures and solutions that our legislation provides in terms of the whole system. Here I would also say that there are also other options for farmers in terms of some solutions that we already have from the point of view of dual status, as well as those solutions that allow partial withdrawal of the pension when the conditions are met; although I agree that pensions are low in this case. I'd like to bring this up. At the age of 40, which has been paid, I would say this: the law also states that if someone has paid from those 40 years 20 years and one day the full amount of rights and the remaining time for reduced rights, it is recognised as a full range of rights, which means that a correction factor is also envisaged here. From here on out, maybe just a few more things. You mentioned more about pensioners and money for social assistance. The raising of monetary social assistance also indirectly affects certain other transfers, such as a security allowance, which is adapted to this. It should also be pointed out here that the change in the level of financial social assistance has also been taken into account by the Government that certain relations have changed, and this is essential. And this will also be addressed in the future by the government, in order to ensure that the social consensus and some relations are respected. One of the issues was also on the table today, this is the Minimum Wage Act, which deals with exactly what the relationship is, among other things, between cash social assistance and the minimum income that someone should receive for full-time work. In the coming year, as far as pensioners are concerned, you already have ZIPRS in your house, this is a document that is prepared, usually for a budget that is set for next year from the point of view of the supplement and from the point of view of the raise, if we look at it this way. Moreover, regular harmonisation, which is difficult around 3%, is exceptional on the other hand only in December – 1.5%. I would point out, however, that when we talk about percentages in relation to the pension allowance, 1% is about 50 million euros. Since the pensioners are now almost 620 thousand, each number we mention there or every euro we add is multiplied so many times. It is, however, a fact that these changes will actually affect all pensions, so that everywhere it gets a little better and knows what is actually happening in our economy or in the country, that we are slowly coming to the green branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The replica has Jelka Godec. Only Marijan Pojbič is registered for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u160	Thank you. Secretary of State Christmas, did you read the bill? What you have just said – farmers in Slovenia must be happy and happy to have such a country because this country allows them not to know what rights, European funds, I don't know what. Have you read the injustices of this law? Not for those who paid full and were granted full rights; but for those who paid full, their rights fell. Why was that? You're still young, you don't know that. I was young too, but my parents were telling me, and only now do I know what they were telling me, what my old mother was talking about, or what she was talking about in the market. Now I get it. The husband of the farmer was in charge of the activity, he was in charge of the business, and he paid full. And he was recognized for the full extent of his rights. The wife could not be a carrier, could not be a united farmer, but she paid full, just as her husband did; but she was recognized for lower rights, so today she has a lower pension, even though she paid the same as her husband. That was one thing. The other thing is, there was an administrative error, which happens, yes. Even today, in the information age, you get one wrong, let alone then. And some of them paid full, but they knew them as other farmers, not as united farmers. We want to correct these injustices; not those who have paid full and now have low pensions, and I don't know what. That's the difference between what you just explained and what we're dealing with. Now explain to me how you will correct the injustices of those who have paid full, and they have been recognised by a smaller range of rights and therefore have lower pensions now. Now explain that to me. Do you even know there have been these injustices? Don't you even admit that there have been these mistakes? Because if you don't admit it, then it's clear that you won't do it either. However, if you admit that these errors have occurred or that you have been misled, then I wonder how you will eliminate these injustices. And don't tell me again about those who paid full. But those who paid full and did not receive full recognition of their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Our last discusser is Ambassador Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What was said here by my colleagues at that time is difficult to add. I think that, in relation to this law, we have been alerted to all that we want to correct with this law, which we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure. However, I would like to highlight some of the issues that have now been raised as the dilemmas of some of the groups. Firstly, I am sure that this law will not go through just because of this, this is already known in the National Assembly because it has been proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party or New Slovenia; regardless of the content of the law. And today there were many excuses why not support this marriage. However, I heard very little of the arguments that would have been given as arguments why this law did not go into the next parliamentary procedure. Among other things, it has been said that the correction of wrongs backwards can be problematic. That's one argument I don't think he can handle. Guilts have been committed, and if we are to drive this society under some democratic rules, they must also be corrected. We are all responsible for this and there is always a way to correct injustices. There's always a way. All we have to do is want to do it, step together, scrape the species, and the results are safe on the palm. I'm sure those wrongs that have been committed have done the right thing, and that's what bothers me terribly. And if the real ones do the wrongs, there's no problem. Then this nomenclature, which controls the country, will never correct these injustices. It's an indisputable fact, and it makes me terribly sad, and it also bothers me terribly. How is it possible that someone at this time still lives in an ideological belief? When the injustices were committed, it is clear. The law is written down, accurately defined, and this law has been introduced for the fourth or fifth time precisely because we are convinced that these injustices have been committed to the weakest of all. Just the weak ones who live on the edge of our country. And today it has been said what kind of money these people are living with; and on the other hand, we are doing everything we can to talk about being a social state. And if we don't help these most vulnerable groups and privilege a narrow group of people, then there is something very wrong with this country's policy, something very wrong about the foundation. And I want, I expect, and I believe that we are able to overcome this ideological battle. Today, among other things, it has been said that it is a class fight. Do you know what that means? I hope those who talk about it know what that means. This is incredible at the present time, at this moment and when we are talking about a democratic state. That's amazing. And then the third thing, the claim that such a solution to injustice would burden the pension fund or the budget. If someone can weigh this injustice and take it as an argument, then a truly sad story of the present power. It's a really sad story. Then someone took the liberty of saying here today – whether the opposition or the SDS prepare a comprehensive pension reform. Please, coalition, tell us why you are sitting in this House; and government. Why are you sitting here? Don't go to parliament, don't spend your taxpayer's money. That's why you're here. But in the opposition, we will help you. If good solutions are prepared, good pension reform, as was the case in the past, when the consent of all the social partners was reached, the whole policy of adopting a pension reform. And who proposed it and in what time, you know. And such inadmissible sentences being spoken here by the coalition and the coalition Members, because everyone will see, will read which Member is saying this is unacceptable. That's why you're a coalition and a government here to prepare solutions, solutions are needed. Neither the previous government nor this government has prepared any important solution for the future of Slovenia, nor one alone, can I list it on this hand for the last five years. This is amazing and the state is sinking, from day to day, the tax is increasing or remains the same. And we pay big interest instead of investing that money in development so that this country can go any further. And we don't do anything where the key questions are. Then today someone from Alenka Bratušek said that the pensioners were interesting to everyone before the elections. Is there an electoral campaign ahead of us right now? After a few months, when this coalition has power, it is already talking about an election campaign; and this is said by someone from Alenka Bratušek, who around brought most of the elective bodies of pensioners and thus came to the National Assembly. And they allow themselves to make such statements. That's really sad. Those directors back there who directed the fact that Alenka Bratušek came to the National Assembly together and got the election base on their side, which went for a key that controls most pensioners in this country. And you know exactly which organization, because instructions were falling that they should vote for Alenka Bratušek; and that's why Alenka Bratusek is in the National Assembly today. And it is right that this Slovenian public knows nothing wrong. They've been used to talk about pensioners being interesting to everyone. Not that pensioners are interesting to everyone, we are obliged to ensure that pensioners can live decently in this society, in this country, this is our job, because they paid because we gave them nothing, we gave them nothing, we are obliged to make sure that they can survive normally from month to month. This is our absolute primary task. However, it is very unfair and unfair to abuse a pensioner in such a way that he takes a new party to the National Assembly through a story, which is extremely inappropriate. I will conclude slowly because my colleagues have mainly said everything, really argued qualitatively why we have introduced this law and what injustices we want to correct. That is why I will be happy to support this law myself, I believe and please, and also in the position of the Group of Members, I have made it very clear to you that I am asking you to agree together and find an appropriate solution. The proposal is here, and we can complete it in the next reading so that in the end we will all be satisfied, especially those who have been wronged. This is our mission and our responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Gradually, Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Chairman. Please, I have a procedural proposal to ask that you instruct the Member to discuss the Pension and Disability Insurance Act today and that he should not abuse his deliberations under this item to deal with other parties who did not have a seat in this debate. Moreover, I demand that the Member explain who was in this Chamber, because I was mostly present, said at this point that it was a class fight. Because if that's not true, then the Member of Parliament is deliberately deceiving. And I am making the following procedural proposal to require Members not to abuse discussions with false arguments. Please explain who said it was a class fight at this point of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, do you have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u166	First of all, I have to say that's not true. I didn't say at this point. And the other thing that I discussed as I did was one of the Members of the Party, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Ducky, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u168	Let me get this straight. Warren Buffett, the most famous realtor in the U.S., said: "It's a class fight and my class wins." I've abused a little, but my colleague knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tillen Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u170	I'd have called before the closing statement again, but it looks like we're already there. Good. First thing, I'd just give you a little bit of a response. We're talking 1983-1993, that's ten years. I repeat, it's ten years. The fact that someone then has problems relating to a lower level of rights means that he had to pay later for a lower level of rights. Because to a lesser extent, you have the right to an old-age pension, but it is still the solution if you are protected for several years for a higher level of rights, you are overcome. And if you were ten years of age at a lower level, in this case you might be on a higher scale, but then if you've paid for another ten years and one day at a higher scale, it's up to you. That's one thing. Another point that I would like to stress again may not have been clear enough before. The contributions paid were never paid, but some contributions were paid for that group. It is true, however, that we then operate with tummines on the other hand, where the rights we are talking about paying for the full range of rights or for a narrower range of rights, but if we compare them with employees or compare them with entrepreneurs, this is not even roughly the same amount, it is significantly lower. And this should be taken into account because here we are discussing this subject from the perspective of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which has this relationship in its core, how much was paid and how much rights are on the other hand. And since I've also received an already concluding word at the same time, I would say so with regard to the conclusion. Under the government's first position on the acquisition. The current system of taking into account the accumulated period is appropriate and this has also been confirmed by the Constitutional Court. Voluntary access to insurance and age acquisitions are two different institutions based on different bases and assumptions, and also under previous legislation, have not been equally regulated. It is true, however, that they are often involved in public debates. Secondly, the Government does not consider it necessary to change the regime of the scope of the insurance rights of farmers and other insurers under the 1983 ZPIZ since it had already expired with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 1992. The 1983 PPIZ, for justified reasons, developed two different possibilities of pension insurance for farmers, and there was no unequal treatment, as the difference in rights stemmed from a substantial difference in obligations and obligations between those groups. For these reasons, the Government does not support this proposal, as has already been said on several occasions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u172	Thank you. If I have correctly understood the Secretary of State, which I thank him for being active in the debates, there was no injustice between 1983 and 1992 and, as a result, there is no need to correct it. It is great to know that there will be a debate on injustice and justice. I will also thank Mr Kramar, who was the only one in the coalition who had the courage to debate. Today's non-controversy of coalition MPs reminded me of that fact – new faces, old patterns. As an expert member of the 2004-2008 mandate of Janša's first government, I must say that sometimes I miss Mr Miran Potrč's faults, which was considered a hard left core, but he was a gentleman who was a advertiser, who read something and even said something. Many times as a professional associate, I flew to him when we had a partnership for development, and he said: Young colleague, the marriage has only five members, wait a minute, I'll take a look, and you'll get one cup of coffee in between. Or he said, "Wow, go to Mr. Tank as leader of the task force, and come back three hours later." In short, he had the courage to face and had the courage to cooperate. Since then, every term has been worse. New faces, new policies, and more clearly, we are in the hard core of socialism. If I understand the representatives of the coalition, especially the representative of the Ministry of Finance, who said – What we want now, the Constitutional Court said that this law is not unconstitutional, and we move on. Dear Mr Tillen Bozič, you will not believe it before the Ombudsman took two years for her to move forward, there were ten initiatives in the Constitutional Court concerning discrimination in terms of acquisition. One of the constitutional complaints was written by my brother, so at times we had at home debates, me as an ugly duck, which I received from ZPIZ in 2012, and on the other hand my brother, who is for, as I said, ladies who went from Morning or from any other company to retirement. I'm not letting anyone tell me that I have no idea what I'm talking about. I understand that the law is not unconstitutional, but the law is still unfair and discriminatory. And that the law is discriminatory and unfair, you yourself found in January 2018 when you filed a coalition, and we also unanimously confirmed a piece of the amendment of this ZPIZ-2. But only for a thousand apparently right people. Nor did they find that the law was inconsistent with the law, but we found that the law was unfair and discriminatory. And for thousands of people, political will has been found, and for everyone else there is obviously no injustice or there is no desire to fix it because he is the wrong proponent. The next thing is systemic solutions. Once again, ZPIZ, the first-signed Han Matjaž, was not a systemic solution to the law on pension and disability insurance, but you had a wish in the previous mandate and you corrected it. We have listened to the entire previous mandate – No, the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposals, as well as the proposals of New Slovenia, which have also been active in law-making, are a non-systemic solution; we will propose systemic solutions. Come on, you've been three parties before, now six customers have come from this, let's give systemic solutions. And don't say that you need time if people, ministers or secretaries of state, and especially ministers, are the same. 85% of people are the same and 10% are additional employees in the last five years, according to official data. Knowledge, I hope, is enough; if there is no political will, tell me. If it were political will, today, precisely by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, who has much easier access to numbers, together with colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and the Department of Pension and Disability Insurance, they have bought so much earlier, so much now, it would cost so much. And it would have cost nothing retroactive since the law was passed that some would not have any anti-constitutional problems; but there is no systemic solution, the finances are not known because he is an improper proposer and so on. This is a picture of a new policy of new faces, not to mention that certain parties in this House have been one new authority and that since 1996 there have been only five years since 1992. Some have been in Parliament for 8 years, but they are still the same advocates for the rights that vote for injustices if the drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Once again, what's not clear to anyone about this law regarding the acquisition? People paid more than those who were insured. Mr. Director of ZPIZ said so himself, but they'll get less. On the other hand, the farmers of the pension, they paid the same, but they have a certain part of these farmers, especially the farm owners have less, because only one in the house could be insured for a wider scale and the other for a shorter one. Let's not even talk about these administrative problems when farmers don't hope or get laid. We know the stories from the field of those who walk a little, even though we are a little younger, but we have one parents who have had old parents who have told us how it was – all the same farmers. And in this 1983 law, it turned out exactly that a certain part of farmers is real, but the vast majority of farmers are wrong, but they are the class enemies who are supposed to have special status and special rights. But only in this law, if we leave the rest of the legislation alone, will we find out what this special status is and what these special rights are — worse, more criminal, more discriminatory. But the wrong proponent, discrimination and injustice will remain. Most of all, I refrained not to mention it today – yes, they paid a little less, but they didn't pay a little more, and when they bought it, they put something in the pension register, but nothing. Do you know how much we give per year for the rights of pensioners who have paid so many contributions – nothing but “nothing”. Nothing, they have special rights, they get special status. Do you remember perhaps some who have an EMHO a little bit larger than me, the first term of the first Members? They themselves conditioned the best law in the world for retirement – two terms in the National Assembly, importing a pension, a super pension. Can you imagine now 90 of us suggesting this? What do people do to us? Otherwise, perhaps some would applaud — leave as soon as possible, but they realize that they will come with new faces even worse Members than they come to the National Assembly. In short, we have pensioners without paid contributions who have top pensions, and here we have 2 proposals to end injustices and discrimination for people who have paid either in one amount or on a wider scale, but will not get what they deserve. Let me finish because I see that the fighters for justice today are ahead of a difficult task, because they will resume their injustices with the pensioners. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we apologize once again to all those whom we have unanimously discriminated against in this National Assembly, once again, inadvertently. A harmonised law came in, where it was said that only the ZPS could fix it editorially, leave everything else alone. I was alone at two coalition meetings and at a meeting of my mother's working body, and that was said. On our part, we have adopted a law in good faith that we will not do wrongs, but not only have we done one wrong about this sum, we have forgotten because we believed that representatives of all ministries, including the pensioners' association, unions, employers, reminded themselves of these farmers of women who paid the same, but who had a narrower range of rights; we have forgotten about them. But we have the pride to apologize and today to propose the correction of this injustice. Since we know that there will be no systemic solutions, we ask you to support the law in the first reading today in the voting and then through the second reading on the working body, and also through the second reading in the National Assembly, we will complete it by correcting the injustices and discrimination that are obvious. They are not unconstitutional injustices, but they are injustices. And I will conclude with the words of one of the former messengers of Desus: When we speak of iniquity, the price is not important. Obviously, we're not gonna be able to see that today. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u173	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? He does. You can login to the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposed Tomaž Lisec law and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the microphone button. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. Each debater has 5 minutes available. The first one gets the word "Anja Bah Žibert." Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. In the so-called regular debate, I was not reported, but I applied this time because some things really hurt me. I'll put it in concrete terms. I am glad, however, that Secretary of State Tilen Bozič has, today, actually, answered the questions in the first law that we have dealt with earlier, and also in the matter that we have put in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But let me refer this not only to him, but to the entire government. Look at this difference, before we spoke to the minimum wage law, there was a speech that the matter was not yet perfect, that things would still have to be looked at, see how the matter could be solved; and then there would certainly be a better solution in the second reading, so to speak. In our proposal for a law, however, marriage is not appropriate; and excuses are sought for why it should not be allowed into another reading. It means we're two-faced. When it comes to a proposal made by one of the coalition parties, I think it is the strongest, because it is the Left who dictates the pace of this government; then we will seek solutions, although the matter is not perfect. But when we propose to the Slovenian Democratic Party things when it comes to the elimination of injustices, as well as injustices, as well as painful stories, as the former Member of the List of Marjan Sarca spoke about serious stories, painful stories, there are also painful stories. We can all be very emotional and find a lot of stories, but here's the thing, and I can't accept it. And in the previous debate, when we talked about minimum wage, some of you said, "Well, what kind of pension will these people have if they don't raise these 20 euros now?" What kind of pension are they gonna have? But here we have people who have paid, and they have 275 euros in pensions. Today, Your Honor! We're not dealing with what happens to pensions tomorrow, but that's how they live today. And you are not prepared to support this law and to release it to the next reading. What can I say about such a policy? Is it really just for sharing? Are you ever able to do something good and say, "It was wrong." It doesn't matter who the proposer is, but let's get her out of here. And it was said how low we have the support of political parties or politicians in the National Assembly. No wonder what they're thinking. Nothing by the opposition in this National Assembly is ever going forward. I think we're even unique. Everything we are proposing is not right, even if it is about redressing injustices — no. Because he is a proponent of the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is about eliminating injustices. This is about people who paid, and today they have to live with 275 euros. Where's the left-wing policy? Where is the voice in the sky of the sobbing and the poor? No, we will not let go because this is what the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing. Now, I hope that in the future no one will move around and talk about how there's some right camp here, I've heard the right half before. No, there's a half here that he cares about these people who do not want to be wronged. That's this half. And no matter where we sit in this national assembly, it would be important for us to hear each other. They didn't listen, they heard. And we don't hear from each other. For when it comes to the largest or the strongest political party in this government, this is the Left, then everything is fine; when it comes to the proposals of the party that received the greatest support in the national elections, the greatest support, and then – we will not – we will not. We won't! And it doesn't matter that people suffer. It doesn't matter if they get blamed. But that's what this is about. And here our policy is still far from what it should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Franz Breznik has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u176	Thank you, Vice President. Those of you who have remained who are at least willing to listen if you have not already actively participated in today's debate, what has the SDS prepared? We have already prepared a second marriage this week, even though he came to this extraordinary meeting. As President of the Committee on Agriculture, I must say in particular that we want to give signals to the market in these crucial months, when we are preparing for a new agricultural perspective, before us, are major changes. On the one hand, it is a generational change, a generational renewal of Slovenian agriculture; and before we make this generational reconstruction, we must give a signal to the young. For the first time, farming pays off, that a farmer is an important factor in Slovenian society, that we appreciate the farmer. Today, when we explain these categories of people, we give clear signals, everyone who has been good in this society. In the proposal for our law on pension and disability insurance for two groups of people, we propose. The first to pay off those who have paid or paid back are in an uneven position, especially in the second category, where we are talking about farmers' insurers, and I would like to say at least some of this chronology. First of all, today you were talking about what happened only from 1983 to 1993. We don't need to know it was a class fight. It was a class fight from 1945 to 1983. They couldn't have been protected before. In 1945, the killings of the larger farmers, the dismemberment of the land, the thefts and so on. Then those who have survived, mandatory shows, hunger, imprisonment of people who have hidden anything, a chicken or a pig, God forbid, another piece of meat. There was even one film about it, you could see it, this real socialism, especially in the countryside. But when this crisis came later, I was talking about it with one of the biggest political, communist officials who said – in 1983 we were afraid, the country started to collapse, there was no money, there were electricity cuts. And we said - let's give farmers something to pick up. Let's at least make it possible for them, and we'll have a little more money. Even then, in 1983, they went with a fig in their pocket. I think today my colleagues well explained, colleague Godec, Pojbich, everyone else, Fox, colleague Bah, what happened. It was total discrimination. What did the party want then? They wanted to have full control of the common sense farmer in the countryside, at least to get him into a cooperative, because there will already be a political official who can indoctrinate him. Or destroy him to come to live in a city, a block where a local suitor and a political leader will brainwash him and prepare him to become a communist. That's all this is about. That's all it was about. That's why that sane, independent farmer shouldn't have had the right. And let me go on, they had green health books, while everyone else, children or older, had oranges. They were discriminated against when they got to the doctor. Do you imagine?Oh, my God! And now it's barely debated whether it was a class fight or discrimination against these people. We do not need to talk about this because colleagues accepted state pensions in 1993 as part of the correction of injustices. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this has already been established, we do not need to talk about this at all. Now it's just a matter of your humanity. Jožeki, Pepeki, and Jožica along these shores — who are now 80 years old, burned, 60 years old, have never seen the sea, have never been near Graz, Vienna, London, where you can travel today, who have worked, preserved rural areas, vineyards, tried to keep their farm, their home, their own law, which their ancestors had for a hundred years – do not have 270 today, but have 190 euros in pensions, dying proud, lost faces in their homes. They don't even have water. They don't have electricity. Today you say at this time that you do not deserve it, you support people who have not done anything in life that exploits the Slovenian social system; and you are going to some false solidarity. It's a society that leads to dissipation, my esteemed colleague. Here's the test again today. Even these people who have a means of transport have registered those bicycles with an auxiliary engine that can even reach the first store or post office. If I said at the time that the cadastral income test was an idiotic test, today is a test of your humanity. Whether you're on a Murgel joystick because you're just nodding; whether you've still got a little bit of your sanity; or if you've got absolutely nothing more humanity; or if you're going forward this ideological and classy fight to this group of people. These are sane Slovenians, proud and working people, right hands. So please, at least support this law for these people who will not wait until morning, die new and new each day. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Today, we have heard several times a hand of cooperation offered to support this marriage because it is the right one. I have to say, when I was elected as an MP, my mother, who is 91 years old, told me — be dressed nicely, solidly, appropriately, and behave appropriately when you are a Member. And that's how I'm going to act. I accept the offer and that we will cooperate, but I do not accept all these insults, all that you have hanged me and my colleagues. I'm new here, I don't know about back; we're creamy, we're incompetent, we're perverted, and we're still a lot of words. Do you think it's normal to say that to one person when you get to know one another when you're with him, when you're talking about how this is a way of dialogue?Oh, my God! I don't think that leads to dialogue. I made it clear in my initial speech that we cannot take the matter this way. Now we have a 15th special session. From the very beginning, when these extraordinary sessions were held, I listen to insults and try to hold on. And I will linger, I promise, I will behave properly, and I will respect every Member individually, and I will not go to this level. And we were ready, we told the Ministry when we went to talk about supporting the law systemically and starting work. We also asked them to start but also to approach them in such a way that we would not do partial work and do new wrongs. I accept your offer, we will support you, just let this government approach. A little over 60 days barely exists and we're already destroying it. We meet with the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour of Tilno Christmas daily because we have to have committees. I'm telling you, you're creating impossible conditions for work. You ascribe to me, you know all about me, who tells me what to vote on, where to turn, what to do tomorrow, you know everything. It's not working. But I'm going to put it plainly, I've been a CEO my whole life, I've had to do things, I've had to do things, and I've never, never, never, never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, never, ever, This is not how we can conduct dialogue, so I would ask you to try to really conduct dialogue, dialectic, real, not erotic. As I have already pointed out, after Plato this already exists from Greek democracy onward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in 15 minutes in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 15th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which we shall continue by vote at 19.50. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 7.37 p.m. and resumed at 19.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u180	Dear Members, I continue to hold the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the voting devices. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Minimum Wages Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Minimum Wages Act is suitable for further consideration. We have a report. Mr. Moon on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u181	Thank you for saying this one last time today. Once again, thank you all for the constructive debate this afternoon. I am also looking forward to another hearing, which we can now safely say will be confirmed by the law today as suitable for further consideration. This is, in my opinion, the first step towards finally making economic recovery in Slovenia is for all those who make the most of it, workers and workers. As we discussed this afternoon, we have had stable economic growth for five years, profits are booming, they were already 3.6 billion euros in the private sector last year; however, in the pockets of workers and workers, even the least paid ones, this statistics are unknown. A minimum wage raise is therefore a necessary correction of the current situation, which will already improve wages for more than 70 000 people working for less than 667 euros per month on 1 January 2019; and more than 120 000 people in this country still earn less than €700 per month on 1 January 2020. In addition, in 2021 a formula will be put in place, after which the minimum wage will never slip to less than 20% above the minimum cost of living, which ultimately ensures that work in this country will be paid and that decent work will also be paid. We will, of course, support the proposal in the Left Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-11-29-SDZ8-Izredna-15.ana.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the disabled as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance is suitable for further consideration. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I therefore note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. That concludes this point. I conclude the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Good night! The meeting was closed on 29 November 2018 at 19.55 p.m.
