ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 63rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Roberto Battelli, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Jan Škoberne, Mr Ivan Hršak from 17:00 to 13:00, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Nada Brinovšek until 13:00, Dr. Vinko Gorenak until 13:00, but is now here, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar until 13:00 - is also here, Mrs. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Dušan Verbič, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer, Mrs Anita Koleša, Mrs Urška Ban, mag. Bojana Muršić, Mr Matjaž Germany by 2 p.m., Mr. Franc Laj, Violeta Tomić, Miha Kordiš, Mrs. Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mr. Saša Tabaković, mag. Branislav Rajić and Matjaž Hanžek. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome all of you here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 63rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday 26 April 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 57 votes against one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 63rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. / Report on the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2017, EPA 2774-VII - part of the point took place without public presence.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We continue with the 63rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and the 1st part of the agenda, this is by reading the Report on the work of the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2017 under the heading TAJNO. We are moving on to a debate on the Commission's assessments, findings and views and on the proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, as part of the remainder of the time of individual parliamentary groups and unrelated Members, the Government and the proposer. I inform you that the amendments to the draft decision have not been tabled. The text shall first be given by the representative of the proposer, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u3	Good-bye to all of you! Security is alone, indivisible and security is the value of which becomes clear to everyone, unfortunately, only when it loses. It's like health. When we lose it, we're sorry. Of course, when it comes to safety, it is vital that we act in a timely, reasonable, and responsible manner. Responsible to all those who trusted us in the elections, to decide on their behalf to control and to make decisions on their behalf that are in everyone's best interests. If there was any surprise at the closed session, it was that the largest government party had announced that, otherwise, a unanimous proposal for conclusions and conclusions which were public would not be supported by the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission. If this is what SMC wanted to give the public a very clear signal just before the elections that it is extremely irresponsible to trust new faces, because they do not understand what responsibility means or understand what the security of their citizens and citizens means, then, of course, they have succeeded. If there was anything else, I just feel sorry for them. The Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services has devoted most of its time to the topic of migrants, illegal migration or, if you would like, the invasion of radical Islam into Europe, but also in the past year. Only one topic is, ladies and gentlemen, which forms a new Europe, which forms a policy of individual countries quite differently than it has been so far, which transforms the political arena of individual countries, as demonstrated by elections in neighbouring Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, etc., even in Italy, if you would like. This is the topic of illegal migration or the invasion of radical Islam into Europe. And security. Security, which is indisputably linked to this, is a security that is threatened not only by terrorist attacks but also by daily violence and violence against children, against schoolchildren, against women, against all the weaker groups that illegal migrants or those who participate in the network of radical Islam in Europe daily. This is something we should be worried about and we were worried about on the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not something that would be out of the purview of this commission, like a mistake or a false one, because they are not stupid, says the SMC. This is the fundamental jurisdiction of this commission. It's a security issue. The issue of illegal migration and their impact on the territory of the European Union is also a question of how the game of secret services is played. It is well known that those first groups and their leaders were directed, not to say, by the Turkish secret service. Do you know that the Turkish secret service has only in the territory of the European Union, including Germany, if you wish, more members than all German security services have to control constitutional arrangements. I have already talked about this at press conferences following meetings of the Commission for the Control of Security Intelligence Services. This is not a powerful secret information that there will be no misleading assumption. Are you aware that Iran also has the presence of secret services in Europe, which have their own interests and which, of course, also operate on all this crowd and direct it. These people who are coming aren't coming because of the wars, because that's just that old lie we listened to a few years ago. I never believed it. I said there were no refugees. They're just migrants. Today, migrants are driven by political interests, driven by secret services, secret service games, driven by money from financial speculators, and by Soros, driven by Arab sheiks and their money. All of this presents a security challenge for Europe that has not yet been met and to which, unfortunately, it has not yet yet found the right answer. This is the security challenge for Slovenia, within which Slovenia has had to operate for the past few years and where unfortunately the existing Government has fallen on the line, because it has released half a million illegal migrants unverified through Slovenia and thus threatened not only Slovenia, but the entire European Union, as a result of which we now have the border again, control against Austria, because they also insist that they are aware of the moment in which we are located, and this moment is extremely bad from a security point of view, but it is no surprise that someone will say it again, because there are also jobs and I have repeatedly warned at press conferences, that there are two elements that are extremely poor and are alarming for Slovenia and are essentially outposted since then two years ago, so all comparisons from this point of view are very pointless and also stupid. There are two differences, but today migrants who are coming from Greece no longer heading upwards towards Serbia and then towards Hungary or Bulgaria, once Orban has set up a fence, today all this flow has started to shift and is mainly heading towards Bosnia and Bosnia on the shortest route across Croatia, moving only in the Balkans over 50,000 illegal migrants, that is not my conclusion, this is an official statement by State Secretary Boštjan Šefica at a meeting of those who are the holders of the executive branch in the field of internal security in Belgrade, also confirmed by the Minister of Interior. The Balkan flow or, if you want the Balkan route, so not only is it not dead, not only was it an infinite illusion that I have listened to from all sides, that the issue of migrants is solved, it is no longer a topic, Europe is safe, but where, it has not yet started, it has not even started for Slovenia. There are 50,000 illegal migrants coming from Slovenia at this moment, just from this address, they are dripping across the border, the daily influx is now 20, 30, what kind of day more people, or you know that this is calculated at the annual level, 10 thousand illegal migrants, which you are multiplying, and of course the flow is increasing rapidly. But this is not the worst, worst of all ladies and gentlemen, but what should happen as the biggest possible alarm, Slovenia is becoming the target country of illegal migrants, today according to official data, more than 85% of all illegal migrants entering Slovenia, in Slovenia is also applying for asylum, this is something other than what we called popularly, Cerar Express migration two, three years ago, when they just waited for them to go forward when they were told, see Slovenia is beautiful, be here, no, they said, uh is the red star, socialism, goodbye, we are going forward to the richer countries. Today it is no longer a matter of relying, today things have changed, and this is the second element that I am talking about, everywhere around us have been created, or right governments have been created, right political forces have been elected, and what is crucial to us, for our problem to predict that illegal migrants will be expelled in an extremely large number, Austria is predicting 50 000, Italy is talking about even 600,000 illegal migrants who are supposed to be expelled within the next few months, not to think that these people will wait, but will probably try, at least one part of them to go where the borders are not adequately protected. And unfortunately, if we just look at the neighbour of Italy, in France Macron sharpens legislation, at this point, we should also do so by Slovenia, at least equalise it if it does not tighten even more than France does. Switzerland has tanks at the border, there can be no one across, Austria with the army twice already showed that “brenner” closes in a few hours, airtight, impenetrable, only Slovenia remains, and there walk freely up and down, just on Friday I was visiting the Slovenians at their request and at the request of representatives of the Italian police and their trade unions I also accepted them. It was extremely instructive, they said that they were missing 18,000 police officers, that they simply didn't control any more things, that they didn't even know how many legal migrants there really were, even in that area. Some of them are recorded, these numbers are still within reasonable limits, for example, but then there are others that are even more, and they themselves are called ghosts, because they don't even know where they are, who they are, what they are. This is an exceptional security risk related to crime, including the arms smuggler, who is again under the authority of the Commission to control security and intelligence services in the part where tracking is concerned with the use of specific methods and means. This is also what we have been facing, and we have seen in the past that the flow from the Balkans is mainly heading north, towards Sweden, for example, as far as I know, since the new year there have been 37 attacks with hand bombs. Practically all from the former Balkan region and where, according to some data, Slovenian warehouses are not in fact exempted. That's interesting information, but no. Well, there's something else. Worse. Recently, it has been shown that, in particular, along with the Italian Gorica, cars loaded with weapons, military weapons, not with guns, as it would be intended for some sort of gangster accounting, for classic crime, but loaded with automatic military weapons, with kalashnikovs, with bullets, special bullets, with explosive means, with everything you can imagine the worst. This is clearly intended for terrorism. According to some data, this is intended to be addressed to Spain, by others to France, after the third straight to Italy, immediately to the Slovenian border. This is certainly a process that cannot be underestimated, nor is it any way to make a fool out of it. Far from it. Ladies and gentlemen, today Slovenia faces security challenges that are incomparably larger than ever since its independence. Today, security challenges are due to illegal migrants, or if you want to invade radical Islam in Europe, because this is the same thing, intertwined, whether it is separated by someone who can, these security challenges are much greater than they were two years ago. Let's make it sound so different, only then did people see that mass, but that mass wanted to move on, that half a million just waiting to move on. Today, those who come will also stay here. They are playing an asylum role here because Slovenia has fallen asleep here because Slovenia has not sharpened enough legislation because Slovenia has not set up a fence enough because Slovenia has not sharpened policies to illegal migration as it should. The reason for this is a great, of course, fundamental and fundamental absence of political will. But in the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, we have warned about this, we have warned in time, we have warned about what needs to be done, and just yesterday I have seen a sentence from the current Prime Minister, who is extremely important: it is necessary to prepare in time. I'd just clap. But, ladies and gentlemen, this sentence was delivered in the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services in mid-2015, three years ago. Not only did we take it as a decision, as a proposal for a hearing at a meeting of the National Assembly, which was then endorsed unanimously by my proposal, I stress, by the Commission, and by virtually total unanimity, without a vote against it. That policies need to be changed, that there is a substantial need for more resources to be provided for security. Something has moved, the situation is better in the police area today, additional funds have been provided, this task has been largely accomplished, and some human resources will still need to be provided. The situation in all the other parts is much worse. That's what I said at the closed session. I will not reinterpret everything in the open, for many reasons, especially because I want Slovenia only good, but let me point out only one thing. All those who shout: come refugees, let's open the border, remove the wire, which they still require from SD, Marjan Sarec, and perhaps others. If an unverified individual enters the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, here he makes an application for asylum, not only does he live until the end of the procedure, even if he is subsequently dismissed, to the costs of the Republic of Slovenia, which are huge, according to the official findings of the Court of Auditors, it is EUR 1,963 per month, but worse still, it is necessary to control him. To control one very suspicious person, we know that, right now, through the Balkan route, right through the Wahhabi centres in Bosnia, among others, ISIS soldiers, slaughterhouses, terrorists, used killings that have staged their deaths, their disappearances and attempt to return to Europe under false data. So, caution is not just in place, but necessary, unconditional. You need 5 people 24 hours a day, at least 4, and in principle 5. That is to say, if only a thousand of them are released into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and a thousand of them are already here, we would need 5,000 people in these services to keep them under constant control. How many do we have? You probably know from the closed section if you've read the material. It is said that we are at the point where France and Spain were about two years ago when their services were said, look, the number of those we need to control is becoming too large, is uncontrollable. And then there also began to be a lot of things, even very tragic. That is why things need to be changed and prepared further. And today, Slovenia should at least do four things. Step away from the quota system immediately and join that group around the Multi-Citizen Group, which now counts around 10 countries. You should accept that amendment that your minister proposed once in this national assembly, and then you removed it yourself from the law so that those who come to Slovenia via a safe country simply do not have the right to asylum in Slovenia, so that their role is automatically rejected. That would be extremely important. There's no war around us. In Slovenia, we have always been prepared to help anyone who was a real refugee whose life was threatened or potentially threatened or threatened by his personal integrity. Now that's not the point. People come to Slovenia through a whole range of safe countries. Now they are asking for asylum, because, of course, policies have sharpened elsewhere, because right-wing governments have come, not only have they taken significantly more stringent measures, but they are predicting even the expulsion of those who are already there. And Slovenia should follow that, at least because it is. It should, in fact, be proactive; it should be even more decisive than neighbours, because it is in a very sensitive geographical area and is very small at the same time, so it is very vulnerable. Not all those capacities, not finance, not everything that some other countries have. And this should be the third step, to tighten up all migration-related legislation with the rights arising from this, at least to the highest level now in neighbouring countries, where they literally daily tighten these laws and adopt new and new ones. And then there is something else, the border crossing should be properly sanctioned. It's broken now. He was also in France until recently. Now, Marcon has proposed that this crime become a crime because it has a number of other legal consequences. We should also implement this in Slovenia immediately because we have a common neighbour, Italy, to prevent Slovenia from becoming a landfill for everyone who would have fled from elsewhere, not because they would have been threatened there, but because they were breaking the law there. There are whole networks, which unfortunately have been filled by exactly NGOs. It's a special story for myself. There are a number of secret service reports about this. All the organisations of people who are not reported anywhere by NGOs as humane, that I will not comment on this, would be very ugly to speak, smuggled into Italy, even to Trieste, past Italy's entry points, and they now represent the so-called spirits that I spoke of earlier, and pose an extremely dangerous one. But they are an integral part of organised crime today. This is the biggest place for organized crime we have around here. It is important to be aware of the consequences of this. Therefore, the involvement of secret services, security services, all apparatus is so necessary and also justified. This is not only a matter of fundamental security, but with full responsibility I claim that Slovenians and Slovenians have the right to live peacefully and in a safe country and in a safe country of prosperity to raise their children and no right of any foreigner can be entitled to it. But in addition, we need to be aware of the developmental components that these security challenges carry with them. Look, when I was visiting Italy right now, two things I have to admit were me, and I know this area really well, but new. First, how the matter in Italy has already come to be completely insane. The Left Governments there, believe it or not, the Land and then their mayors, take the right on the basis of a constitutional article after emergency relief in the event of extraordinary events of higher fate, for volcanic eruptions, for major earthquakes, floods and the like, but one such article is in the Constitution that, on the basis of this article, if you have two apartments in the house, you live in one, you have one ready for children, you have one ready for children, you have a decree for the other apartment, because it is empty, they move in, say, fifteen illegal migrants, who then break it all down, destroy it and so on. Or if you have two objects, at all. Here is, of course, the question of where the right to private property, etc., has now disappeared, the things that represent the very foundation of the European Union, but this is happening, ladies and gentlemen, here. But you know what's even more important, even for Slovenia, it's clear that where migrants settle, the value of property is zero. Nobody takes those properties anymore, even if they're free. This is a literal indulgence if you want, even our foreign Slovenians, if this is happening to them, because it is a particular question of what the Slovenian Government has done here so far. But what is surprising is that even at the external borders of these areas, miles away, for example, the case is Monfalcone, go ask the mayor, who told me personally, the price of real estate falls by 40% or more and the price of businesses falls by 40% or more. Do you imagine that, just as I claim to be incorrect, even an illegal move, I believe that, according to Europe's constitutional standards, even a counter-constitutional move, one government can actually allow itself to destroy someone 40% on the night of its assets. Therefore, I keep reminding you that the issue of illegal migration is also a development issue and that, of course, security services are also involved here, all within their competences, and that is why this is still the responsibility of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services. Just like the assessment of that fundamental security behavior that comes from the conclusions that are public and before you. To say the latter, the Commission notes that the establishment of border barriers, domestic wires, along the Schengen border was the right decision. We regret only that it has not been fully realized and everywhere. The official information with which we were informed at the meeting is that 85, 95, and in some cases 100 % of illegal migrants go through only where there are no wires, there is an exception to the wire, except that there is only one, it is said that there is still a preventive action, and in some cases there are irresponsible individuals, I have previously numbered them, SD, Levica, Marjan Sarec, leftists who demand that overnight things be removed, that the borders be opened and that Slovenia should bear the consequences, ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia, Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia, citizens and citizens have the right to live safely and have the right to prosperity, not that some of their money, not that some money created by Slovenia gives to them for illegal migrants, and therefore the commission as the supervisory body of the National Assembly has the right to live safely and have the right to have the right to benefit of their money, not that some of their money, not that some of their own money, that some money created by the Slovenian enterprise would be more important for the development of Slovenia, that they have made up to do so far, that they are still have an extravare. Once again, if the message is that there must be no confidence in the elections to new faces, because they are completely irresponsible, then they will certainly succeed in this way. Of course, the Commission has touched on a number of other issues in its work, I point out only some which may have major consequences, but although they are of an incomparable lower rank than I have talked about, only one topic transforms political scenes, the political space of the country, the European Union, affects identity, the issue of maintaining European civilization and national states, there is a question of illegal migration and radical Islamisation, but in addition to this topic, it is important to note that, unfortunately, there are still some secret acts in Slovenia that have not been made public on the Commission, despite reasonable reasons, which are not good, this is something that will be necessary or at the legislative level, if it is necessary or otherwise, once and for all, if there is no effective control, this is not, this is a real exception, and I think this responsibility should all be aware. In addition, we note the protection of classified information, and the situation is now that the Constitutional Court has repealed certain articles of the law which has regulated it, no new solutions have been adopted. On several occasions, we have warned the Commission, wrote to the Government, received assurances from the representatives of the ministries there that this will be settled, unfortunately it is not, it can have major consequences, the most difficult procedures for the worst crimes in Slovenian courts can fall, and you can only ask yourself whether that is really a goal for anyone. The Commission also draws attention to the departures from individual services, security and intelligence services, including unfortunately from the police to the public, leaking confidential data, which then significantly affects the efficiency of these services. We point out that when it comes to making key decisions, it is not possible for someone elected to one function to allow himself to say that one important report has not been looked at or raised, that is irresponsible, that is unacceptable, that this should not happen in a democratic country. And then here is the issue of sanctions, the question of what the competent authorities and institutions do on the basis of our findings, we point out that not in the case of a reasonable suspicion of money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank, but not in the case of an investigation into security, not a crime, but for the security of citizens and citizens. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare for Mr Benedict Kopmajer and Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u5	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. It is important that we trust our security and intelligence services, but it is also right that they are adequately controlled and that the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Committee is also designed to ensure that this trust is not misused. Slovenia is once again considered a very safe country, although we have repeatedly found that the threat is increasing in the world, Europe and probably Slovenia. And it is also important that our security and intelligence services are well-trained, well-equipped, well-organized, properly paid and, of course, not abused, not abused for internal political purposes, nor for external political purposes. Slovenia is a member of the European Union, a member of NATO, and I therefore expect, in the first place, to cooperate intensively with these countries, of course with everyone for safety, and not to abuse these services. And it is usually so that more people, including more employees, are, in my opinion, good than bad. Unfortunately, however, the poor can do much more damage, and supervision of any institution is also needed. And when I read the reports and then find that the findings of the security and intelligence services have not been adequately responded by the competent authorities and this is not acceptable. So if we have these jobs, if they're doing their job right, then we have them to make us safer. And then their reports, their results, of course, must also be taken into account and acted accordingly. As I have already said, these services must be independent and, as in Parliament, no commission should abuse its function for political purposes, but rather that all of them together, that our country works better, and that all of these services work lawfully, that they do not abuse their trust and that they work primarily for the security of citizens and for the welfare of citizens. And if these services have also obtained, and as we read, different data in the field of economics, and our competent institutions have not acted properly, then the question of the meaning of the work of these services is indeed a question of whether or not it is an inappropriate, inappropriate conduct of those responsible if their warnings have not been adequately addressed. Let me say it again. I support the report because I think it is right that these services are also being controlled, that trust in abuse, of course we will feel safer and that we will be safer, and it is necessary that these services are well-equipped, organised, efficient and consequently that their results, including the competent institutions, are used to protect us.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u7	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Now, in this mandate, the red thread was certainly security, precisely because of the events that took place in our immediate neighborhood and also the wider neighborhood. Certainly migration, one such phenomenon, then also Russian hybrid warfare activity, cyber attacks on Slovenia and other countries, violations of international law with the annexation of Crimea, then also with the war in eastern Ukraine, certainly also changing both the geopolitical and geostrategic situation in the world, also dictates that Slovenia have some change to follow. And in view of the situation in which we live, according to the world in which we live, we can only provide more security on condition that we also provide more financial resources for this security. Unfortunately, it always starts and ends with money. And the Commission, which has done its work exemplaryly and conscientiously throughout the entire mandate, has also pointed out the problem, including this segment several times, not least with a vote, that it is necessary for the authorities in Slovenia to provide security to our citizens and citizens, which is one of the most fundamental assets, if not the most important one, besides freedom, of course, to provide more financial resources. Towards the end of the term of office, this somehow started for the Slovenian army, unfortunately we are far from where we were before the start of uncritical, unreasonable taking of funds since 2010 and then beyond. We can say that the situation in the police has somehow improved, as far as wages are concerned, as far as equipment is concerned. Now, what's the situation inside the police, another time, if there's another time? And of course, when we talk about intelligence and security services, we still find out financially, and the financial consequence is human resources malnutrition. We've talked about this a lot. And if we don't rejuvenate these services, then there's no perspective, it doesn't make sense to talk about any reorganisation if the IT people have, say, computer experts when they come from college to work in Owls for a thousand euros and in the economy from two thousand euros forward. Here, if there are no serious changes, the serious organisation of intelligence services, unfortunately, because they are also in this single pay system of the public sector will not be able to compete. And we can take such measures if we don't do the basics, it's true to improve wages for jobs on which the country is dependent, the intelligence services are in the vital interest of the country, then unfortunately there will be no progress and we will go back. However, things that can be done without or at least in the past have been made available, and these services, which are unfortunately not carried out by the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services, have not been carried out. And since the Commission has adopted the report as it is and because we have written in this report whose stories are those still open, the stories to which the Commission has not received an answer, it has not received the appropriate explanations, or it has received some flat-rate, incomplete, all of which is proposed for the next composition of the National Assembly. In connection with these stories, we have also had two open sessions or two of these problems have been publicized and both suggest that the Slovenian police, I speak for its leadership, I speak for the top, but I speak mainly for the criminal police, somehow still have not crossed the ties of the past, which they link to the former country. I'm talking about classified rules. Slovenian police, the Slovenian criminal police, operate on the basis of secret regulations. Under these secret rules, it carries out covert investigations, uses certain methods and means against citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And when the commission asked the police to show them these instructions, these procedures for action, the answer was negative. When we received these instructions, a significant part of these were blackened. That's what it says, darkened, the text was hidden. In short, Mr Špenga, I am interested in what you are hiding in these instructions that neither the members of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, which we are the only body of this Parliament, the only working body appointed by the votes of 46 or more Members, should be allowed to see. Why do you operate on the basis of classified rules? This is not in harmony with the Constitution, and so on. In short, why citizens and citizens cannot know what are the methods used by the Slovenian police against them. And he writes publicly and clearly that no regulation can or must not be kept secret in Slovenia. Here, however, are the secret rules under which you follow and carry out covert investigative measures against citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Another issue that also points out, which we have also discussed at public meetings, is the killings of the former State Security Service. This issue was reopened by the use of poison used against a double spy and his daughter, the case of Screeching in Britain, where this poison came from. In Slovenia we have in the archive, which has been delivered, clearly written documents, numbered with official stamps, with signatures of how many of these war poisons, non-murderable assets, etc., have been purchased in the past by the State Security Service. And on the other hand, we don't have any record of surrender and any subsequent destruction of these killings. In short, we have evidence that this was purchased, that it exists, and we have evidence that there is no evidence of destruction or where it is. And since we've seen where it is in those documents that are in the archive, and when we asked the police what the activities in this area are, obviously, the Slovenian police don't think it's reasonable to go there and see if these things are actually in these depots. It is the security of citizens and citizens. Somebody use some of this to get some of this started. We know that such deposits have also been in the woods, in the woods, etc., which is dangerous of course, and there are records of where this is and I am interested, Mr Spenga, why the police have not done anything in this mandate also on the basis of documents that have come to the public to check whether these funds are really there and if they are not, where they are. You have lists of what's been bought, and we don't have lists of what's been destroyed. In short, these things are still somewhere, and in this mandate the police obviously did not think it would be meaningful to deal with them, but on the other hand this is chaotic, interesting, given that the Slovenian police or the Ministry of the Interior are still working hard to limit the market, to limit the possession of weapons by those who have weapons legally. You deal with those and would complicate and make legislation even more restrictive for citizens and citizens and citizens who possess weapons at home legally, but on the other hand you do not care that somewhere in some villages, forests, lakes, bunkers, there are killers waiting there to be, I don't know what, used or how. In short, you're talking about some dark net and the dark net is where the legal arms trade is also going on. That's what you start to do. Leave the men with the weapons in a legal way. Leave and oppose the nonsense of the European Commission, various regulations, directives, etc. In Slovenia we have legislation that is strict enough and a system that is exemplary in terms of the right to carry, transport and possession of weapons. And I would expect the police to start dealing with this one time, and leave those who have weapons or have them at home legally, and given that we follow all the laws and regulations, leave them alone. The story that was open and which caused damage to Slovenia, which is why today we have a complication about arbitration, is certainly the one that I think came in July 2015 when our agent and our arbitrator were caught in the ear. In short, the story that doesn't have an epilogue, we don't know what's going on with Mr Sekoljek, we don't know how the procedures are going, now I don't know if you've got it or not yet, but mostly here was a lot of questions that we didn't get, what was in the background, who did it and so on. Above all, what is most problematic, given that Owl had “briefing” at the time, or clearly stated how, and in particular how it is not communicated that despite these warnings that we have been generously paying for it, for whom, for what, what, what was the benefit here? We don't know, maybe you know, but you didn't tell us. Now, for sure, an affair that is not a couple, a billion euro washed at the biggest Slovenian state bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, has exposed, exposed, and, in a way, evaluated the deep state, which in fact leads through the puppet lefts of the government. A billion euros laundered for the purpose of proliferation, for the purpose of financing terrorism, for the purpose of building an atomic bomb by the Islamic Republic of Iran is a stain on the Republic of Slovenia that will never be erased. And when we talk about our relationship with the United States of America, with our Western allies, believe me, this thing is not overlooked either. On the basis of what was established by the Commission led or led by Dr Ange Logar and on the basis of what the Commission found for the supervision of intelligence and security services, in the event of a billion-dollar money laundering in the NLB, all control mechanisms have been concealed. It's not random, in my personal opinion. Director Sove, at the time, Andrej Rupnik was replaced with the new director Sebastian Selan just a few days before Sova received information about what was going on at Nova Ljubljanska Banka and when he finished his career at Sova's headquarters, he went where? For Director Terme Catež, a company owned by Bojan Petan, I think he was also Director of Marine Portorož for some time. In short, this was one of the important factors, we also heard Mr Plaussteiner's testimony or hearings, the other responsible for what happened. At the closed meeting of the KNOVS, the Minister of Finance, at the time, Dr. France Križanič, President of the Government, Borut Pahor, we received the report of the Sova, which was or I think was, I don't know, that the report of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering addressed to the President of the Government, where there were several paragraphs and there were, so many and so many, thousands of euros, was transferred by the two spouses to this account, so much and so many thousands of euros were ordered by this, and there, and then in one paragraph, a few hundred million euros were transferred through the New Ljubljana Bank, about that paragraph. And when the then president of the government, Borut Pahor, got this on the table, he looked at the matter and simply put it in a drawer or somewhere else. And when he asks him today, he says, "Well, I didn't think it was important, or I thought that the proper services were already doing it." And he did the same thing here and he did the same thing in the case of TES 6 and is in the same way as the Prime Minister, I believe he did elsewhere. And if the Prime Minister behaves so irresponsibly or has such an irresponsible attitude towards the intelligence offices and so on, I can really ask myself how he does his job as the President of the State and the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, as is the case with the annual report he receives from the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as assessed and so on. [[Incomprehensible]] But I doubt it again, or I believe it wasn't random. The Anti-Corruption Commission, led by today's Minister of Justice of the Magi, was also responsible for preventing corruption. Goran Klemenčič gave her the information she had received, but she gave it to me in a very different way than she should have. The gentleman from the police, who witnessed or who came to the invitation of KNOVS to tell us his own answers to our questions, made it clear, and this is also recorded in the tapegram, if the police received an official document with the head of the Bank of Slovenia and that is how the KPK would get it then we would have done otherwise, so we would have taken this as just one more information that we get to the police every week. And one report has already been adopted in this regard, and another report by the KNOVS has also been adopted. See, the question is what will now be done by the responsible, specifically SDT, Mr Harij Furlan, who is also connected in such and different stories, that the culprits will also answer before the law for the provision of one billion euro of laundry for the purposes of proliferation and terrorism. Or what will happen in Slovenia always happens that no one is responsible for anything. The damage to Slovenia has been done, the international community knows that, as I know, Israel is dealing with it, Germany is also dealing with it, it has gone 100 million euros, and I believe that it is a serious one, and it will be very confusing when it is determined who is actually behind it. Deliberately, unintentionally, this will be determined by the law enforcement authorities, but unfortunately, I know or can only think of what they will eventually figure out. So this is a story that is probably not yet completed, but certainly the thing that we can say is intelligence and security services, here I think only Sovo, partly the ODS, as far as this is concerned, because of its presence in the Balkans, on a mission in Bosnia and Kosovo, and this is certainly migration. And here, too, our country has fallen on the entire line in terms of protecting the Schengen border. And as my colleague Grims has said earlier, the migratory flow will be strengthened, now all the information we received at the last KNOVS meeting is unfortunately not to be issued to you, but it is a matter of concern. And that the reason for concern is, is also fine evidence, a visit by Mr Boss, I think he visited two or three Balkan countries. Now, given that this flow will be difficult to stop, I believe he went to ask them only, hold them until June 3rd. Keep them until the election. Because if we have them a week or two before the election of thousands, 2,000 at the border, then this is a disaster for the Slovenian left on June 3rd in the parliamentary elections. And I believe that this was Mr Šefic's main message, but to the authorities he visited in countries where the Balkan migration route is becoming quite current. There were many warnings, many recommendations made by the Slovenian Democratic Party. If Slovenia were to start preparing early enough if nothing other than the same measures as Hungary had taken, it would also take Slovenia, in short, to protect the border with physical obstacles and to put a physical force behind these physical obstacles, which would prevent these physical obstacles, not allow anyone in, to amend the asylum legislation as proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in order to make Slovenia's legislation extremely unattractive and uninterested for asylum seekers. And because the Minister of the Interior proposed and unfortunately the coalition, which is more on the side of Soros Foundations than Slovenian citizens and citizens, their security that no one who comes from a safe country can apply for asylum in Slovenia. And if the Slovenian Democratic Party is given to form a government, we will do it after June 3rd. Slovenia cannot be a target country, it must not be a target country, it must not become an exotic destination for all those who are now being rejected by the rest of the European countries, but are now being speeded up. And if we don't follow the measures that others are taking, then there will be chaos in this country. But what I have said before is that I will not repeat myself, not with regard to illegal migrants, but also with regard to the considerable problem of those who come here legally, because the law is being broken long and hard. In short, I will support this report. With the report being adopted or not adopted, all these problems remain, many questions, some I have highlighted, and remain open. And this is just a bad trip for the government, which in the next term will have to deal with all of this because this government is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I'm going to focus on some of the points in this report myself. I have some documents before me, i.e. from the first point launched by this Commission at the beginning of this mandate. It is a special asset of the former State Security Service, which has never been committed or what Comrade Mahnic said or destroyed, or we have any lists of destruction. I have before me more than 250 pages of archival documents, on which basis we can determine what funds the State Security Service had in its possession or ordered them, even the prices at which it ordered them. In order for the Slovenian public to see what has not been committed, which is still likely to be somewhere in secret warehouses or with former members of the State Security Service, I will now count on some of these funds, which I believe should concern us in democratic countries. I even have prices here, say, a special asset, so the umbrella as a rifle cost 20,000 dinars at the time. Here I have a special means of batting, so some walking stick that works the same way as a rifle. Then what is worrying then is the neutralisation kits, of course in these lists are normal automatic rifles, silencers, automatic pistols, for these assets, but I think it is some of the normal means used here today by police, military units or also, so some of the assets of the special operations units. What, of course, look at colleagues and colleagues, and the resignations are so-called special weapons and means for a fine diversion, for the liquidation of people, for neutralisation. There's even a description of why they want to use it. What is particularly worrying is that some of these supplies date back to 76, because I would say that the shift is large, that it has been a long time, that perhaps certain toxins cannot work at that time. But we even have orders in the year 88. So, before this regime collapses, which is right to step down with the authorities, we have orders to see what they ordered. So, in particular, they need funds, listen well to why they need them, to kidnap temporary neutralisation of certain individuals or animals with pharmacological means, so the purpose is to quietly eliminate important enemies of exhibitors, so the enemy exhibitors were all who in any way opposed this regime. They speak as enemies of political competition, i.e. collaborators, what some today use this phraseology, members of special forces, living forces with a view to introducing uncertainty and fear into the types of enemies. So they're scaring the enemy. This is where they acquire means of silent liquidation, direct action of the needle, daggers, knives, shock weapons, indirect action, needle launchers, arrows and missiles, so the purpose is neutralisation, you have heard well, liquidation, psycho-effects. Method of use in means of silent elimination by intermuscular injection, i.e. intermuscular moniculation of all these so-called enemies of the regime, various applications, then these are types of poisons, inorganic, organic, alkaloid, narcotics, drugs and everything else. In the meantime, we know almost all the 19 proven Udbov attacks in Austria-Koroca in the 1970s, one ended with a so-called counterattack where it was in 1979, and the other way around, because Udbovski was an agitator, two Udbovian agitators were seriously injured, etc. [[Incomprehensible]] So we have a whole range of resources, which, of course, these orders continue in 1986. Here I have orders for 1988, even talking about chemical, hand grenades, not about smoke bombs or tear gas, but about chemical hand bombs. Talks, orders even went to tromblonic chemical missiles, so we know the tromblo mines, which were mostly part of the M70 rifle, or the so-called semi-automatic parrot rifle with a special adapter. There were also orders for such funds, unusually. We have a 1981 order again, I have orders from 1986, 1988, but we do not know, or at least we have not observed at any meeting, that we have any document that these funds were handed over to new democratic representatives of the new democratic authority, both at the Ministry of the Interior and at the Ministry of Defence. Of course, there's a lot of this stuff, we could say. Here we have the last such order from 1988, talking about about about 263 pieces of special umbrellas, again these sticks, special even tap for firing chemical bullets, etc. So I, as a Member of the State Security Service, as well as as as a representative of the people, am interested in why the authorities did not investigate, which was why a number of former members of the State Security Service were not interrogated, when we know that there was a great tragedy in this mandate in Isola, because a former member of the State Security Service killed a doctor, killed one police officer, seriously wounded another, in his rented apartment later in this investigation, the police did not want to investigate at all, and later they searched this apartment and found a whole range of automatic weapons, bullets, etc. It happened again in Maribor, where a retired member of the State Security Service shot his wife in the head. Again, certain investigations have been made in recent years in a number of members where they have also found more automatic weapons, bullets and other means. Which is why these people are untouchable when a normal citizen himself, when my father, who was a hunter, died, I had to hand over all the weapons that he had at home to Lenart's administrative unit at a time immediately until the legacy debate was resolved, because of course it seemed logical to me, and even though at that time the military person who had it had it, had it safely checked, had a personal weapon, so that was what I experienced at the time. So this is one of the things that, we can say, is scary, it affects, we can say, citizens, that someone can also say some uncertainty, so about this actual conclusion in this term, we have not come to that conclusion. The next thing, what my colleague Grims said, I would only conclude in two sentences, migrant policy, even here in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we can say, not only did we inform that we were giving solutions, that we warned, see, even when the Government was already said to be relatively ad hoc, it always worked when we had thousands of people ahead of our borders, then we just started working and always had urgent meetings, as you know, we could say constitutional law or changes when we gave certain police powers to the military, even then we could say state-of-the-art partner, but unfortunately we were always a step behind it. What is now coming because we have done nothing is, to what we are pointing out, and I will also point out that, after all the safeguards that have been taken by Austria, Germany, Hungary, Croatia, will come, Slovenia will become a member or first member of this Balkan work, a member of Schengen, we can say the final destination of these migrations. And here, see, my fellow Members, here is one reopened question where we should now, in these recent meetings or these extraordinary recent meetings, take some steps forward, give once again certain powers to the military and police, completely close the airtight border and take certain measures. Unfortunately, here too, I think that we have a problem, we have warned of the lack of co-financing, both the military and the police in this area, but above all I think it is very important that we further strengthen the Owl, we also strengthen it, not only financially, but also materially, we also need to complete it with the right personnel, it is not so much an ideological design, it is supposed to be neutral, it is supposed to work, its members in favour of Slovenia, but it is also a particular cyber threat to Slovenia, it is too small and it is very difficult for Slovenian companies that pay well, wherever such experts can get, to the Sovo, also to the Slovenian military and police. This threat is more, these threats are new in nature, with new means and I must admit that one of these points of this report, which would be too long, is also that Slovenia or Slovenia are one of the countries where we are also part of the target of Russian hybrid politics, namely their hybrid warfare, Putin's regime primarily works on very fragile democracies, one of two such countries is Slovenia, the other is Macedonia at this point and we will also have to take one step forward. I think that this matter can also be known to the Slovenian public, including part of the policy, if we can say that it is servile in this Russian hybrid policy, we can say whether or not they see it or do not recognize it or do it hand in hand. We Slovenians have completely moved away, we can say in recent years from the Western Civilisation Circle, from the relationship then, from our original goals for which we can say, the plebiscite majority, or even the referendum victories in this area, we have a lot of people's will to stay in this circle, but unfortunately, the current policy from this has always slipped away and gone into some, we can say completely different circles where democratic principles do not work. Of course, even in this report, a number of things that my colleagues may still open would be too long, I myself have focused on these three points, I will confirm this report by my colleague Grims and the team, I thank both the opposition and the coalition that confirmed this report at the meeting itself, and I hope that they will follow this up today and that we will confirm this report on the supervision of the security intelligence services in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, get Mr. Uroš Prikl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u11	Have a nice hello again. I would believe that today we are considering this report in the National Assembly, in which I proposed only a few weeks ago a change in the law whereby that migrant who illegally crossed the border committed a crime, such as assaulting a police officer, was caught, robbed or undisputedly committed a worse crime, then could not ask for asylum, because that is what is happening, ladies and gentlemen. I've already told you what the current moment is much worse than it was two years ago. Today, those migrants who are coming see Slovenia as a target country, as a country where they then apply for asylum, where they then live at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers for 1963 euros per month, to the detriment of all citizens and citizens, to the detriment of pensioners, to children, to the detriment of Slovenian development. That is why action should be taken now, here and at once. For, positive law, the constitutional order in which we are, always dictates that one procedure, when you begin, is to be completed in a way, according to the law that is more favourable to the one concerned. And even the subsequent tightening of legislation here does nothing to help. But this law that I'm talking about, which is self-evident, if you catch someone who's an I.V. when you commit a crime, you'll escort him to the border, you'll say good-bye, not to say the word with a hit and send him where he came from. But this marriage was rejected here in this National Assembly. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a good signal to citizens and citizens on these forecasts that this report will not even be accepted. I must say, as far as the members of the commission themselves are concerned, we have done an extraordinary job. I say that with all my responsibility. No Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services has ever done so much and has achieved so much and has dealt with so many critical topics as the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services in this mandate. What is of great importance in key matters, even when it comes to the demand for substantial more money to be devoted to security, which is then unanimously confirmed by Parliament as a whole. All these key decisions have been taken unanimously by the position and opposition, so no matter what, even if this report is rejected from political prestige today, I take this opportunity to thank all colleagues and colleagues who were members of my commission for their outstanding and productive work, a work that was not easy, which was sometimes even more dangerous than you think, when we addressed the issue of financing the mosque in Ljubljana, where funds come from Qatar, where there is a Mediterranean, that is a place of learning, even the Arabs are known as extreme and where we wanted to go for additional resources, because at that time the leadership of the country changed. When I was just talking about what we were dealing with at the session, there's a lot more, believe me, I let go of what was said, so I got four death threats, and then one really wonders where you live. Especially if you say that, and then the services don't do anything. One of these, by the way, was put on the air, and it was said that I should bring the footage of what was on the radio. Very interesting logic, I must say. I think the police have to do this on official duty. One of the things that comes out incontrovertibly and where we have reached total agreement on the Commission and comes out of our conclusions is that we must all be equal before the law, so that the service cannot be, neither the security institution nor any part of the security apparatus is biased in any way. It must be bound by public, public good and act solely on the basis of laws and public acts. There was no doubt here among the members of the commission. It would be good if, when it comes to key issues, in particular fundamental security issues, such consensus could always be reached in Slovenian policy as a whole. I have made every effort to do so myself, unfortunately today's forecasts of the SMC and some others do not show in this direction. Although that is because it is entirely appropriate in these conclusions. It touches on the open procedures that we have initiated on the committee and the epilogues of these procedures, what we note is that some things need to be reviewed when it comes to security, when it comes to the question of a child playing somewhere, opening a switch and howling open there, will go to see what's inside and then there will be a disaster. It is therefore necessary to review this, and no one expects the prosecution of those responsible before, I do not know how many decades. It wasn't our basic wish. Of course, if a crime is identified, it must be prosecuted, but the key is to ensure that people are safe. That is also why we have been duly alerted to all these things. Therefore, we also draw attention to all those incomplete procedures. Unfinished procedures when it comes to the issue of banking crime, incomplete procedures when it comes to the issue of an external political affair with the hearings and inadequate conduct of two representatives of Slovenia, Mrs Drennikov and Mr Sekolec, which should probably also be very good and in the field of competent services, but not only again when we have opened up to say that the question is not accessible, that it has not brought electronic appliances, that for such or other reasons things will not move anywhere. You can do anything if you want. Yeah, sure, if you don't want to, you can't. That's a very simple logic. It is similar with other topics that have been read, as with over-responsibility. When it comes to the issue of contacts between illegal migrants and the network of radical Islam, which already exists within Europe, even within Slovenia, it is something, because it is, of course, subject to the supervision and control of secret services. And those who are, ladies and gentlemen. And there is something else you need to be aware of that I have repeatedly warned at press conferences that things are getting very serious in Slovenia right now. In fact, according to official estimates, there were fewer than 10 people a few years ago who posed an objective threat to life, to health, to safety, to property. There are hundreds of them today. It's an official evaluation. Thus, the task now ahead of us is significantly larger, and therefore this task should under no circumstances be further hampered by easy-to-think moves. That is why it is now necessary, and it is high time for us to do everything I have warned about before. To tighten the legislation by making it comparable when it comes to the issue of migrants, asylum seekers and everything, because it is related to security in these procedures, with the other countries of the European Union, in particular those where we have common borders or neighbours with common borders. So we don't become a dump site for those who just get rejected there, not to say trash cans for criminals. That's unacceptable. Such thoughtlessness should under no circumstances be tolerated. However, the rejection of the law I spoke about earlier points in this direction. This should be of great concern to us. In addition, many other things are open. It is a question of who has the right to play the role and then the question of family reunification, which is still at the back of this whole story. And there's something else you need to know. Not only are illegal migrations a problem, but legal migration is also a problem, particularly those in the area of the former Yugoslavia, particularly from one of the former provinces where organised crime of major proportions, where there is also a radicalisation of Islam, is all because it is also typical of illegal migration. And yet it shows that it is also a planned policy for which some administrative units stand, and these, we all know, are subordinate executive branches of power, even unfortunately Kranjska where I come from, where with incredibly easy people get all the powers, all the permits, all the ratings, while once a Slovenian comes looking for something, it's an incredibly complicated process. Unbelievably complicated. One wonders whether this should also be subject to the supervision of these services, for here, I think, all of this is what's going on in the wake of corruption. Corruption, which is to the detriment of Slovenian taxpayers, who pay for all of this, which is in the interest of public interest, the security interest for which I stress once again, is alone, is indivisible. And it is, of course, a question of respect for the law, of dividing it into the citizens of the first and second order, which is totally unacceptable, but which requires that everything be dealt with in the same way and with the same criteria, but of course, when something good is being done, it is also acknowledged that, for the end and thus I conclude, it is said that the construction of the wire, the fence was the only right move, and it is written in the proposed decision of our commission, which I am leading, that it is only a shame that it is not a fence everywhere. I would also add it to the Western border, against Italy, then the Austrians would probably not wait with control, they are actually doing it preventively because they do not trust Slovenia with past experience, that they will defend the southern border under the current authority on the one hand and on the other hand to reject any wave of illegal migrants from Italy, once again or once they start transporting those people from where they came. And for this reason, the Austrians are really insisting on border control, not because of the Slovenians and the Slovenians, because they do not trust the current Government and, therefore, now, once again, I stress, the time limit for these measures to be taken. On the other hand, to give support to all those who have done what was right and who have carried for Slovenia in the past years to sell their health and life, in addition to firefighters and civil protection and all others who were tied up at the time of the greatest flow, are now those who are at the first frontier, namely the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian Police, who deserve our recognition, our support and our consent when it comes to the fundamental issue, the value of security.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Marjan Dolinšek. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me first of all say, of course, that I will support the Commission's report and I am sure that important work has been done. Last but not least, the majority of both coalition and opposition members agreed. Surveillance is certainly necessary, always and everywhere, and, of course, or even intelligence and security services must not be left unattended. I am sure that today, peace and security in Slovenia, Europe, and beyond, are not in their own right and that they need to be kept more than ever in the past. Of course, I don't get to know myself, and I'm going to be very honest here, all of you, and also to the people who listen to us, who listen to me, I could go into some details, because I don't have that knowledge. But what I want to ask, of course, is what I am interested in and what interests many people who are now listening to us here. Is, for the first time, the Republic of Slovenia a safe country and are we citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in our country safe? Another time. Whether the organisation of services, I am talking about security and intelligence services is such, as a result, or whether the human resources are sufficient, i.e. whether the human resources and financial resources are sufficient to enable these security and intelligence services, i.e. whether or not the optimal functioning of these security services is possible, and consequently, the safety of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is most important. We have information, this is an undeniable fact that human security intelligence services are being strengthened, even a few more financial resources are being compared to past years, but either that is enough, whether these are the optimal resources for their potential or not potentially future, that is to say, future action. And thirdly, I ask whether, at the time of the Commission's operation, the power to perceive or to determine any anomaly to this extent that might have had a negative impact on the smooth functioning of the services we are talking about today and, of course, whether such anomalies could also constitute a threat to peace, security, our citizens and citizens, I think that these are the very basic questions which people are interested in, but little less are interested in, cybernetic terms, or whatever you are already calling them, military, us people, citizens, whether we are safe and whether Slovenia is a safe destination, not least of all, in terms of successful economic policy management, this is a condition for successful social policy management, educational and so on and so on, and I will be very happy if I can get very simplified answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u15	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I must say that my predecessor has made quite a bit of a point of reference to me, even so otherwise I thought to start what Mr Pikl has asked questions if we are looking at the entire period of four years, the period of this Government, I think that, but let us be critical of the reality, I think that in our country it has been taken care of in a suitable way of security, despite the various challenges we have faced, but in 2015 we know that although it is not a direct subject, I will say that so much has been said about the migration problem with regard to our Commission for the supervision of intelligence services in some way, yes, it has touched our Commission, but I think that it is a better place for the Committees on Internal Affairs to deal with this subject and I think that normal criticism from the opposition is normal, but I am glad that it has also been to hear praise words. Now we through the spectrum, a very wide range of topics that we have discussed on the Commission, now I would focus on the last year, because we are considering the 2017 report, has been quite extensive and the last meetings have been able to confirm directly when reporting from the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, both the Director of the Sova Intelligence Service, the Agency and the Director of the Military Intelligence Service. Which means that, of course, security is never too much, never enough, it is always necessary to be on guard, to count on the worst, to be prepared, to have plans drawn up just after the assurance of the representatives of these few mentioned, they assured us that they have, even when I say, challenges for the future problems of migrants, I have already warned a few times in this mandate when we have faced this migration problem, not just Slovenia, the Council, but Europe in particular, but also in the coming years we will have to live with this. If we look at certain predictions, certain findings of certain world services, as well as other intelligence, what will happen in the coming years. Migration won't calm down. They won't. We will be able to talk in other migrations, not about refugees, but about economic migrants, because in parts of the world where survival is at risk, people are streaming where they can live and where they see something bright. That's what we need to know. It is up to us, however, that, when it comes to our country, the Republic of Slovenia, in order to protect our interests, we should take appropriate measures to give proper effect. So far, we have to admit to a large extent, they have been giving, even to the unloved, so-called technical obstacles on our border or, if we want, the wire is unkind, but it has proved to have had its effect. Having had its effect and concerns about removal, I think they are completely superfluous, because right or wrong, I think it is an obligation to protect our citizens and citizens in our country of the Republic of Slovenia in the first place. So like it or not, here I personally have no problem and the technical obstacles at the border themselves must remain because tomorrow is a new day and the story will not end. We need to be on guard, ready, and these technical obstacles are likely to come in handy. Now, just work, just work, now that in the part where Comrade Prikl said, I think, of course, a lot of things could be done differently, but I think it also speaks eloquently about where we are on the safe countries scale. We are not alone on this scale, we have been placed by the institutions of the world according to the estimates they have used, so that we can be happy for once and be able to communicate to the Slovenes and to the Slovenes that we can all sleep peacefully together and that we are ready for any challenges and threats that might arise and probably will happen in the coming years or months. Anything's possible. But we can't just keep saying what's gonna happen, what's gonna happen. We need to be ready. I count then before the end, before the vote, that the representatives of the government will also put aside here in the hall what they have often given us in the quiet room on the committee itself, many times that they will also today draw some conclusions from their side, views and also some concerns that we have heard today through the debate that they will give their explanations. I'm sure it's positive, because like I said at the beginning, I think we can be happy with our work. Of course, I am also convinced that if I evaluate now only the work of our commission and the cooperation for those we supervise who are in charge of our commission, that our commission is overseeing from Owo, the police and the military intelligence services, I think that my feeling is, but I hope that it does not fool me, of course, every start after the mandate in early 2014 may have been in some parts a bad year of complications with certain reactions from these services. However, I can say what has been going on for the last three or two years and I think that cooperation has been good enough not to be upgraded. Of course, we must be honest here, and this has also been helped by our intelligence monitoring commission. I'm sure the topics that we've discussed are in most of the conclusions and these conclusions, each point of the open work, I can say that I have no problems and that I agree with them in any other way. There's only one part of me that bothers me, and I have to admit it, I'm talking for myself, and that's the part that talks about the killings. In fact, the thought points me out, before colleague Breznik said, 88 years of purchase and up and down, yes, now we are 2018, there were how many governments involved, how many interior ministers, how many? Here, however, the question arises to me why there is no work around this work, about the killings, and once again, I think that these killings do not fit under our intelligence control committee. It touches on the security aspect, but, as I said earlier, this is my thinking, I think that it would also be internal affairs, the committee, if that is already, that this matter should be dealt with there and, as I said earlier, the Ministry of the Interior since 1991, immediately after the establishment of our own country after 25 June, why nothing has happened through, we know, the ministers have changed and nothing has happened. That's what I'm wondering. After so many years, if it's still supposed to be in some places, I don't know why it wasn't someone, not just asking questions, but it's right when it comes to such things. However, the Ministry of the Interior also led various governments, why no one touched it. I would if I were a minister if I knew about it. And from this moment on, I will not be able to support the full report myself, entirely, just because of this work. I'm the one who said the right thing. This part bothers me personally. The second report, however, I think, has been said several times already that we were very often, or in the majority, on key issues, that we agreed on the Commission, even when it came to taking decisions. I think it is good that this is proof that it goes not only from a political point of view, but also from the point of view I believe that in the coming mandate, however this commission will be composed, that it will upgrade even more, that it will carry out its tasks more professionally, and thus contribute and challenge the services it oversees, to even more activities, especially in those areas that touch on the aspect of our security, because that is the primary security issue. [[…]] I believe that this will be the case and the accounts, if we went back to watch the previous work of this commission in various mandates, has been very different, even very passive in one term, now why this is not the subject of today's debate, but so much more so can we say that the Commission has done its best in spite of the opposition to the coalition and so on, and it is normal that we have also come across, the opposition, the coalition, also on this committee, not many times, but in those parts where it has felt that the political view prevails over the professional or substantive work. So that I wouldn't go into individual parts, I think the point is that it is still being upgraded, that here all representatives of the government are listening to this work being upgraded, in some part of the area of financial reinforcements has been done, especially in the field of police, but I think that even in the field of military, especially in the recent period, so that, and just as the agency of Owa, that normally every service also has its problems, there is no one without problems, but that it goes in that direction to prevent anything that might be possible to endanger us, it is my view, I think essential to prevent. Once something happens that you don't have to know with what kind of intervention, with the measures, when it's a bad time, it's too late and the essence of all of these services, which are being supervised by the Commission, is that through preventive action, active action prevents, detects, detects, detects with large ears in accordance with legal standards, in accordance with legal standards, it's often difficult. We know, on the one hand, that we love human rights, on the other hand, the security aspect, I am a defender of the other, the security aspect, not to the detriment of reducing human rights, but we only have to consider in certain parts what is better, because, as we have heard several times, if we do not have security and peace, then the economy cannot work, cannot create new added value and so on and so on and then, because we can go human rights, and we can cry for human rights, we are free, but there are always certain standards, and I think that we are on the right track so that I will finish, I did not want to go into concrete cases, I touched one and partly migration, I think, four weeks before the elections, although this report has got its place in the big hall and also now what will be the result as regards the adoption of the conclusions, is basically, because the primary task is that I think that the National Assembly is to be aware of the report and I will succeed in any task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Vinko [[…]] Procedural? Ah, replica, here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u17	Yes, I have to rephrase my colleague Dolinsk, he mentioned my name, and he's got things to do with it. I have been explaining about 250 pages of large material, secret killings, war poisons, means for the quiet liquidation of people in numbers some 100 from different periods, even the last for 1988, the last document dates. He was talking about why the government didn't do it. My colleague, if we were to closely monitor the work of the National Assembly, the documents were found in 2015. Look, it says here on March 18, 2015 we got these documents. We've had a special session, you've been a member, and since then, as far as we're concerned, we've been getting information, things have started to unfold. Even in Germany, see, when they discovered a neighbor who was an accountant in Auschwitz, this was in 2017, he was now literally put in prison and sentenced. After what, 70 years? After 70 years, mate! In 2015, March 18 this material came in, you were familiar, you were not at the meetings and a whole series of these secret associates, today I was talking, they are also in the National Assembly. Not yet, Mr Jerko Čehovin said in his previous term that he would sue me and Mr Janš. I said that I have arguments, then he went after Mr Janš, now he has lost at two stages, completely lost everything, and not that he lost, Mr Batagel, who is the tenant of the Postojna Cave, even when he was the director of the Postojna Cave, found a secret room to eavesdrop on during his, his acting as director. And now he's even running again as an MP, look at it in the so-called list of Alenka Bratušek, where you are, your MP has signed the letter for them to make the list. And even the president of the world of Alenka Bratusek is a widower. Udbovek Jerko Čehovin. I'm talking about him now because he can't sue anymore because they're documents, and because this case is closed. He sat here and wants to continue to be in Parliament. There's a whole bunch of them here. Even now in this reference and the whole species, tell me if this is normal. I don't think this country is normal. Today I count the killings and everything and since 2015 we know, and also colleague Gorenak says that they had no idea when things were turning themselves in. We don't have any destruction warrants, no destruction certificates, no surrender warrants, nothing. But there are killings in Isola, see, right at the time of this treatment, there was a murder in Isola, a doctor died, a police officer died at work, a woman died in Maribor, whom her partner, who was a former Udba member, shot in the head, shot in the head in cold blood, and a whole bunch of such cases. And I think this is an alarming situation right now, Comrade Dolinšek. I hope you've been monitoring all these sessions and you've remembered that. So, on March 18, 2015 we were introduced, so it's been three, good three years, since then nothing's happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I wanted to say it myself. In fact, I have been close to the top since 1990 or in the first government. For example, at the time of Mr Bavčar, his advisor, as well as later in 2000, the Secretary of State and in 2004 the Minister of State. But, ladies and gentlemen, this was nowhere to be found. Do you think that there was someone at the handover between Ertle and Bavčar who was not at all, because this gentleman squeezed his tail between his legs and went home and left his keys to the secretary and didn't make a handover with Bavčar? And do you think it was committed? Well, that wasn't committed. And back then, we didn't know about it. 2012 I had no idea what it said in there, I'll say what I know, so many chokers, so many injections to kill and so on. You probably need that for humanitarian reasons. I mean, that's amazing. And I didn't mean anything by it if you didn't know, but I have to say it, I think. Okay. Control of security and intelligence services. I ask the students every year, and I say about that, these security intelligence services, owls, and so on, they control this one, and the ones, and the ones, and the ones, and the ones, and the un, and the ones, and the ones, and the ones who control them. Well, then I tell them, usually, that I'm going to evaluate the one with a higher score, which will tell me which one of these controls is the most effective. Which of these controls is the most effective. Look, between 2004 and 2008, the students collectively said parliamentary supervision was the best. Since 2008, they have not repeated more than parrots, but speak quite differently that it is parliamentary, but that it is, in fact, some other control that these services still know. See why this is happening? Because I don't know if any of you were here, except for Mr Grims in this House, at the time 2004-2008, but look, 2004-2008 we first saw the camera in front of Parliament or behind Parliament, and the camera in front of the Owl, but then the Members walked out here into control, and they were filmed here when they came to Owl, etc., etc. Why? Because the opposition was then with that chairman of the commission, I forgot how it was written, but now the SD State Secretary was in the cabinet for a while, because it was for the press, and then the Members were informed that they were going into control because they were working out of it. [[Incomprehensible]] [[Incomprehensible]] What? Show. They thought it was a show. After 2009, while we were in opposition, I will say that there were no such stories in general, and even in 2012, when we had the Government, I don't know who was running this committee exactly at the time, and I don't know who was running this commission right now. Look, we didn't normally have this mandate to report to the media, that it was controlled there and there, but we could see Grimes, who just made a statement after the supervision. And that's the way it is, and that's professional behavior. So, in this context, I'm going to say thank you to the current commission. Of course, I will also support the conclusions. Now, let's talk about the content of the controls. Look, let me say that I know something about this, as do those who are operating today, or the Owl, or intelligence, or the Ministry of Defense. Let's just say I know something too. But look what I'm going to tell you, there's no commission, there's no commission, there's no parliament at all, which would be up to the task. I can commend the work of this Commission and some earlier, as it is fine, in the given situation is so, but the best description of the work of the parliamentary commissions has been given to Francie Kek, who was a Member I do not know how many years ago. He's real, you know, but I'm a member of this commission, and we come to Owl, and I say, what do you have that machine in the corner, and he says, and here we do ice cream. But yeah, you make ice cream, it's nice to do it in January. What I was trying to illustrate. I wanted to arouse, not this one, but the future Parliament and future parliaments to try to put this commission on a slightly different foundation and a better foundation. I mean, a committee member today can be anyone. I don't want to underestimate, I don't say that my knowledge is better than Janie's or anything else, but I do realize that with some average knowledge, even if you were in a uniformed police department like I was, they weren't grown up. They're not grown-ups. At every step of the way, they'll take you thirsty across the water, that's clear as day. Every step of the way. Look, between yes, of course, yeah. [[…]] Between 2004-2008 we had the so-called Storm Commission and then we came there and we said, OK, but through money you really can see, but here you really don't have anything to hide, money is money, porpoise souls don't, there you see everything, with money. So we said, well, now give us the items, where and why you spent something last year. And of course they politely prepared a computer, a special key and choose all the codes they gave us and I see those numbers like Bolek and Lolek, that's right. Because they're stacking them up for you in a way that you won't find anything. But when you tell him to give me action, I don't know, holy Mary thought wrong, if you use money here, and then you get more, I don't know, then you find out that they cheated like Gypsies don't, but they abused like 300 gods, and I'm talking about 4-8 very responsiblely. A whole bunch of criminal complaints have been filed, and so on and so forth, so I am somehow taking the initiative of the next Parliament to make changes in this area, a) strong professional colleagues who know the issues in the gut, the system of action. And b) of course I will also say the composition of the committee of reflection [[?]] If we don't do what the Germans do, because every candidate who wants to become a supervisor over these services has to get 60% of the majority, the constitutional majority is ours. It seems to consider this matter not. Now I really don't know much about the operation, even for the time being of the current director, because I wasn't a member of these committees, let's say I don't have much, I don't know why, what or how they know more, but I'm going to tell you one thing very responsiblely when we were on the second floor in 1990 on Stefan 2 on the second floor, then called Kidric 2 in the minister's office, and other offices were talking about what to do with these 700 people now, which is what they were looking for, and now their internal enemies became their bosses. [[Laugh]] What do you do now? At that time, given that the war was coming, of course, we decided on a soft option, about 300 people were retired at 25 years of age, and everyone in the economy today are judges, but the prosecutors are not sure what else they are, but now they think as they were before. But we kept the rest because the war was coming, I mean, responsible today, I say one thing, it was a mistake, it was a big mistake, it was a big mistake, we should dissolve that job, classically dissolve it, do the same as the East Germans did, and someone else in the East, which means to put many in court, yes, and build a new job, why did I say that? For a basic reason, because at least for a period of up to a year, at the end of 8 I can say that the operating system remained exactly the same as before 90. Unfortunately, this system has largely been copied to the top of the criminal police. See, if in 1988, 89 things were to be said about secret official papers, no, perhaps the power of the then emerging democracy would have been poured into the streets and demanded changes, if they had known about some secret official papers and it was not known then, today we know that the criminal police, the top criminal police working in some parts of the secret documents, is protected by the President of the Government, we have clearly seen this, so I propose the next commission to write an immediate criminal complaint against all those responsible at the interior ministry, the top criminal police, the top of the Ministry of Justice, of course, and the current top government. It is not permissible, it is not permissible for anything in the world to say today in 2018, I will not give a secret document, I will not give a secret instruction from myself, it has a real secret instruction and does not give it away and it is covered by the President of the Government. I call on those who will come to this National Assembly to write a criminal complaint, of course. Now look, why did I say the top of the crime police? Simply because the samples have been transferred because I have three minutes at my disposal, I will try to take advantage of them, carry them all the way to today, the top of the Slovenian criminal police. He was never controlled until 2000. Never on anyone's side. He did what he wanted. In 2000, we carried out our first control under the tactics of the then Minister, Dr. Jambrek. The Chief of Crime Police resisted and we replaced him, which, of course, is logical and right. But, look, we found there--what--we found there for the first time, which is suitcases, suitcases by the way, the money of a German brand of unknown origin. Before that, I found Koper on the police department - a pile of gold, and we sold 20 blankets, and then we bought this, and we sold 25 deks, and we bought this. This is the work of the Crime Police until the year 2000. It was until 2000, but it is a system of functioning of the State Security Service that we are on the clear ground that cannot and must not happen again. Now, I don't have any information on the criminal police. That's when we legalized this money, but if I hear today that someone doesn't want to and is acting under a secret rule and doesn't want to give it to Parliament, it's an alarm, it should be an alarm, like it was in 2000 or even bigger. On the contrary, 2018. In short, I call on those who will have the opportunity to participate in these commissions to try to change the system of action that will give these commissions more power, which will arm this committee much more to control, let me say, at least n from supervision. This does not mean that the current supervision is poor or that the current commission has done its job poorly. I think she did a good job. But, the situation, the powers and conduct of the Prime Minister's summit with President Cerar at the helm, I mean, secrets. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Rules, of course, prevent better work. Since this is, I suppose, my last performance in the National Assembly, after all these years, I'll say thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u20	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government, Mr Andrej Špenga, gets the floor. Here, Ope, he's not here. [[…]] So, all the debaters got the word. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Good. Then I ask you to sign up, with Mr Grimes, who will be the last to receive his word. I'm asking you to sign up. And also Mr. Spinga, if you want, op [[…]] Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u21	See, when we analyse the work of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, it is necessary to take account of a very unusual start in this mandate. This commission started work six months later than it should. For six months, neither the security nor intelligence services had any parliamentary oversight in Slovenia. That's not good. Why did this happen because the coalition acted like a collective peasant bride? I would if he wasn't in there. I mean, what was it really about? I would like to recall that, at that time, the mandate was first removed, unlawfully, obviously against the Constitution of one of the Commission's candidates, and then again the proposal that Mr Janez Janša was abused by the Commission in order to avoid the appointment being made. Only when the whole story was going on so long was it obvious that it was drawing attention abroad to why it was happening. In fact, since it was clear to everyone that it was a transfer of power, it was only then that the Commission could start its work. In addition to all that we have been talking about today, the Commission has been dealing with many other issues, it is necessary to realize that whenever an extreme occurs, this causes another extreme, and it also raises the issue of extremism, we know that in the past the incredible number of these commissions has been dealing with right-wing extremism for a very long time, and it ended by the fact that in one of the Commission's annual reports, across the page, there was a strong control over right-wing extremism and that they found that they had attended one of the music concerts. Hell, that's extreme. Someone likes to listen to music. But then there was so much press in which it was written that they also perceived the possibility that some money was being laundered, but still in the same breath it continued to be for the Balkans and for some transfers of one of the only funds that were interesting to the military and there was nothing clear from that, because it was thought that this was related to the Balkans, ladies and gentlemen, that there was a billion money laundered for Iran, which was then under the embargo, and the fact that when this happened, to the entire Parliament, I am not just talking to the Commission, but to the whole Parliament, including the President of Parliament, completely silently, because it was not among the recipients of the special report, these are all the practices that this Parliament has already faced, which we have revealed in this mandate last year and which should be extremely clear that these things should not be happening. As it turned out to be, unfortunately also in a number of cases, if you want, from Hamburg to Naples through Paris, through various European cities, that extreme leftists are actually interfering with violence and that is extremism and that with the hands of Islamic extremists destroying European civilization, so this issue, control over Antifo and extreme leftists should be devoted to significantly more space and this knowledge is not from Slovenia, this knowledge is now a European knowledge, in Europe today the list of antife activists is given as potential terrorists to the list on which, of course, potential terrorists, ISIS fighters, various Islamic fanatics and, similarly, some support for security, and finally, those who belong together in one list, that we can only say to the European police and the Europols are all soliciting their support for the situation and sophistication, and those who belong to the list, that we can only say to the EU police or to the EU.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The National Assembly will vote on the proposal for a decision in 15 minutes in the framework of the votes, thus terminating the first item of the agenda and the 63rd extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4 p.m. [[The session was suspended at 3:44 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-05-07-SDZ7-Izredna-63.ana.u23	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the 63rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2017. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. First: »The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2017.« Secondly: “The National Assembly proposes to the Government and the competent intelligence and security services to take into account the Commission’s assessments, findings and views on the supervision of the intelligence and security services in their further work and cooperation with the National Assembly and the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.” We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 12. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
