ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 53rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, Mrs Vojka Šergan, Violeta Tomić, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr. Franz Laj, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, Mr. Peter Wilphan, Mr. Matjaž Hanžek from 17:00 on, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec from 15:00 on, Dr. Franz Duck and Luca Moon. I invited the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to both items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda for the 53rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday 5 January 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 53rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On behalf of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say, before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the law. The motion for an indictment was submitted by a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Defend Grimes for further explanation of the motion for indictment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! One of the greatest achievements of the government, Janez Janša, was to enter the Schengen area. This was not as self - assuming as it may have seemed later or is being shown today, but it was the product of an extraordinary effort. And years later, we all got used to it — the border was gone, wherever you could enter Austria, from Austria back to Slovenia. We were Europeans. Then, under the leadership of Dr. Mir Cerar, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to release half a million illegal migrants through Slovenia. They've been torpedoing for months. Things could have come apart differently if you had to listen to the suggestions to set up the fence in time and to declare the prison of the border, but that was what made the fool of it. The result, ladies and gentlemen, is that, today and in months from then until today, there is again control at the Austrian border. Slovenia is even excluded from the Schengen area in some of the images published by the official European institutions. This is the result of not respecting the law, the rule of law, international acts and playing politics by trying to be liked; in a given case, it is to someone somewhere in Brussels or Berlin. One of those stopped at the border was Ahmad Shamieh; this was February 2016. The Austrians turned him down at the border. Then he applied for asylum in Slovenia. He entered Slovenia illegally, of course. The competent ministry, the Ministry of the Interior – specifically its Migration Office – has issued a negative decision against which Ahmad Shamieh, including with the help of some NGOs and others, has used all the remedies available in this country. All right, even to the Constitutional Court, he complained. Finally, all the courts, including the European Court of Justice and, of course, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, gave it to the Ministry, and Ahmad Shamieh completely lost it. Legal result: The decision of the Ministry to extradite or relocate it to Croatia, which is also a European state, a free, democratic, secure country, has become a legal one. But then what happened in Slovenia was almost hard to believe if the Slovenian situation was not used to – the first action of Members, who took Ahmad Shamieh both by government parties and by the Left and formally by the opposition brought to Parliament, after some data, even past the security review, and the day after or on the same day also reacted to the President of the Government. The President of the Government would, of course, have only one option in accordance with the rules in force: to require unconditional compliance with a legally binding and enforceable decision. For Mr Ahmad Shamieh, the relocation procedure has already taken place following the decision of the competent ministry. But it happened completely different. 14. 11th, early this morning, on his Twitter account, Mr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, announced: "The process of returning Mr Ahmad Shamieh has not started today. Due to special circumstances, I have decided today that the Government will consider the proposal to issue a temporary residence permit. This allows us the 51st Section of the Aliens Act. I made that decision because it's an extraordinary case. Mr Ahmad has been well involved in our society and has made a useful contribution to it, so I have proposed the initiation of a procedure to gain the status of a foreigner with whom he can still reside in Slovenia." In one of its statements, the Government also stated that the procedure for the intervention of the Prime Minister had been suspended. What does that mean, in practice, ladies and gentlemen? Slovenia is a state of law and social law by the Constitution and has the authority of the people who, once again after the Constitution, exercise it in such a way that, according to the principle of division of power, it is legal, enforceable and judicial. And one authority has no right to block another's legal decision. At the very least, the President of the Government has the right to intervene in the legislative decision of the competent authority, which has been confirmed by all the courts in Slovenia. If he does, it is legally only one thing that is the subject of a criminal code. It's called overriding powers. In this case, the Prime Minister has no doubt, and you all know that, he has exceeded his powers. Why did he do that? Apparently in that desire to please, he overlooked that these games are not led by him, but by SD, the second largest party in the government, who, of course, plays the game all the time, that he wants to appear as a solution to the problem of the current government, even though it is an integral part of it. It is a rotten core of the current government and the largest component of the problem, and the President of the Government has completely inherited it. Is this the property we expect from the Prime Minister? Certainly not, for the President of the Government is rightly expected to maintain due judgment even when any important decisions are made and, of course, he always consistently enforces the law, not to fall for political games, which unfortunately happened in the present case. The matter then ended quite tragically at a government meeting, after which one of the ministers simply said that they had studied things and found that they had no legal basis for doing so. Yes, good morning! Ladies and gentlemen, the law is clear. Once such a decision has been finalised, it shall not be affected. Moreover, that article of the Aliens Act, which they referred to – which, by the way, is intended for very successful athletes, for top scientists, for people who can make a special contribution to the State – would, in the event that this would be justified at all, because in a given case it would be obvious to abuse, be able to use only before any other legal decision has been taken before this decision remains valid, but not then, in order to nullify the former. Of course, this does not have much to do with the rule of law anymore, but it has a lot to do with politics when it affects judicial decisions and other decisions. By the way, even then, everything that went on has its own red thread only in this — the pressure of politics or the political computer, which is trying to direct things in one way or another to its own advantage. What exactly did this do to you? It was said that Ahmad Shamieh made a special contribution, he was extremely well integrated. I don't know if shaving and cutting on black is extremely good integration, and then there's a lot more people like that. Interestingly, such a cry and cry did not appear in all those false humanists who participated in the circus when it went on, for example, for a whole family with children from Syria. There was no protest when she was sent back to Croatia. At Ahmad Shamieh's. One simply wonders how, from which end he has integrated himself and what this integration in this case means as an expression at all. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, what is actually the important contribution that it is intended to make in this case. The fact is that, in his own words, Mr Ahmad Shamieh left his relatively large family, wife and more children in Syria and fled to Europe, according to his own words. The war is over in Syria. That is to say, from the President of the Government, we would at least expect him to say, yes, it is nice to meet you, a happy journey home, and we will do our best to help, of course, within our real opportunities to rebuild the country and its institutions. But no, it's said, let that gentleman stay here. I do not see what the cowardice of this escape is about to make an important contribution to integration, because I certainly hope that at least we agree on what human values all those who leave their own families and children in the war zone, where death is threatened every moment in their own words, which is why they then play theater in front of the cameras are rolling on the floor and shouting all kinds of nonsense, about what human values and qualities could be very legitimately discussed and doubted. I hope you agree on that, too. So it's something else. It would be very interesting to know what for. Let us take a look at this from the perspective of Slovenian taxpayers. Mr Ahmad Shamieh has remained in Slovenia throughout this process and is, of course, here today, after all the information available. That's what they say. It's about two years. According to the official findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, one migrant or asylum-seekers per month of our taxpayers is costing thousands of euros due to the wrong policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Which means that, for Mr Ahmad Shamieh, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has spent about 50,000 euros at that time, and this is probably even higher if we take into account the actual costs of judicial proceedings, various legal representations. [[…]] Do not be impressed that they would believe that there are free legal representations, because of course it is also necessary to pay and, of course, it is again the money of taxpayers and so on and so on. In short, 50,000 euros. That's a lot of money. For such amounts, the government, for example, has been negotiating with firefighters for months. For such amounts of money, when it comes to schools through which water flows through the roof, the government can't find and find money. And for one Ahmad Shamieh, it's not a problem. This situation will be even more obvious when you look at it from the point of view of the ordinary Slovenian pensioner. Pensioners now receive — how much? There's 600 euros a month. It is said that one Ahmad Shamieh receives more taxpayers' money in one month than three Slovenian pensioners who gave their lives, health, work, energy to build the state of Slovenia. If we look at what the lowest wage is, we can find that three, four Slovenian employees are working for one illegal migrant, in which the only argument for its continued retention in Slovenia is that it has become well integrated. The only thing we could see on TV was that he was cutting and shaving at the corner factory. As far as I know, correct me, if I am wrong, there is a legal order for everyone in this country and the law should apply to everything in the same way and in the same way. Therefore, if a service is performed, it is incumbent upon an account to be duly certified and to withdraw all relevant taxes to that country. But if he doesn't, he's breaking the law. And so we have a man who has obviously broken the law, also with the knowledge of the authority which considers it a quality, and is subject to completely different criteria than that of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just about the constitutional charge, but about everything else. Then let's see what this government does when it comes to settling well-integrated migrants. Provide them with flats with LED TVs, leather seats, glass ceramic plates, in short, with all that much Slovenian families can dream of. Where are the double criteria here, ladies and gentlemen, that are in the eyes? How is it possible that one government of one country gives priority to foreigners to its own citizens? And let's take a closer look at Ahmad Shamieh's case. For Mr Ahmad Shamieh, an illegal migrant who worked illegally in the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia met and discussed him at its meeting. For veterans of the wars for Slovenia, who had once been willing to sacrifice a life that brought life and health for sale, the same government did not meet. Moreover, Ahmad Shamieh was here last year; last winter was in the final part, as you know, very bad. There have been several cases of severe hypothermia, since people — especially pensioners — with the lowest pensions — have not been adequately prepared. People are used to being green winters, as they're told, and they haven't bought enough just to be hot, one way or another. They didn't even have the money to afford it quickly. The result was that, in at least one case, there was an official death toll due to the bribery of the pensioner. More than that, we have heard dozens of such cases when we inquired about hospital hospitals. Did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia meet for this, for Slovenian pensioners, for those with the lowest income at an extraordinary meeting? It's not about Ahmad Shamieh, but it is about Ahmad Shamieh. Ladies and gentlemen, this is obviously unconstitutional, but also extremely unethical. Above all, it means, of course, in the final consequence, when a procedure that has already been initiated, which has already occurred, has been terminated, in all this part of the story is completely illegal and the person responsible for it is the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. She can't say she's a real ignorant person because she's a constitutional lawyer. It is said that he knows exactly what the rules of the game are and what this country is about or should be about. Even more; it is not just one article of the law that regulates all these matters. He has been in violation – in addition to constitutional principles and articles – of this there is no doubt – of the Law on State Administration, which states that state administration must be politically neutral in its work, must not act biasedly and must not give unjustifiable benefits to individuals. In view of what has been happening with Mr Ahmad Shamieh, we can find that Mr Ahmad Shamieh has no doubt been treated differently, which means that in the legal sense of the word he has received unjustifiable benefits thanks to the President of the Government, who is responsible for this and is responsible under the Article of the Penal Code, which speaks of the excess of powers. The conduct of the President of the Government in this case not only has all the obvious characteristics of the crime to meet all the criteria, but it is also extremely unethical. It's fake humanism, giving priority to a stranger to your own citizen. When you allow or even by your conduct in this case, you make a foreigner subject to other rules of the game than your own citizen. This, ladies and gentlemen, is legally unacceptable and, of course, also obviously unconstitutional. It is unendurable that this story is taking place for so long and has experienced the epilogue that we are talking about here today. It is irresistible that in the last year alone, when Mr Ahmad Shamieh was here, the official budget of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Government for illegal migrants, allocated 123 million euros, but no money was found to help those Slovenian citizens who would actually need it. That's all I'm saying is that it's clearly a violation of constitutional principles. For first the Government is obliged by the Constitution and the law to take care of its citizens and citizens, and then we can talk about being willing to help others in the best possible but reasonable way within the framework of what the state can do. Today, we can see how right we were for those who warned that the only real help would be to help where these people came from. Today it is known that this is an official calculation published by the Oxford professor to provide more than a hundred people for what is spent on one Ahmad Shamieh for one month in Slovenia, where these people come from; the ratio is more than one hundred. That's saying, this whole story isn't about humanitarianism at all, it's not about help, it's about completely different things. However, this story goes so far as to cross the legal boundary. Does anyone have that right in this country? I'm sure it's nobody. Does the Prime Minister have that right? No, it's not. However, the President of the Government has a duty to respect the Constitution and the law. It must be aware – and, of course, as a lawyer, knows this very well – that it is unacceptable to apply legal standards which would allow for an exception, as proposed, in their own words, after another administrative procedure has been completed and decided not only by all administrative instances but also by all courts, including the European Court of Justice, the Supreme Court of Slovenia and the Constitutional Court. This, of course, is no longer humanism or anything else, but political will, which, of course, means an obvious excess of powers, for which he is then personally responsible, even criminally, the one who did it. That is what we are really deciding today. Whether we are all equal before the law, or are we giving priority — even in an unlawful way, in an unlawful way, through a conscious violation of the law — to a foreigner in front of his own citizen, do we find it appropriate to spend four times more years for a foreigner than one Slovenian pensioner or three times more than one Slovenian employee who receives the lowest income? Does it seem right for us to spend mountains of money while there are problems in Slovenia, when we read about how people, mothers and children, are throwing single mothers out of their homes when we hear a veteran war against Slovenia is being waged out of their apartments or when it is planned to do so when it is sold at auction for 150 euros? So when we have clearly for one, for our own domestic, for our own people stricter, for the other criteria, and for the foreigners none. They are allowed everything: illegal border crossing, black work, smuggling, whatever you want. In the SDS, we call that a decisive no. We have one goal to protect Slovenia. To protect Slovenia by adequately strengthening the protection of Slovenian borders, to strengthen the functioning of the rule of law in order to create a real situation when everyone before the law is the same, to ensure the legal and other security of people. All that this government has promised, and with its own political games, even when it is obvious that the government is ununited within one party against the other, or one individual against another gravely violates the rules of the game to the detriment of Slovenian taxpayers, to the detriment of legality, and what is the worst thing when it inherits it, or by doing so, is even further advantageous by the President of the Government himself. [[...]] We want to protect Slovenia from all of this. Ladies and gentlemen, today you will decide whether Slovenia is in fact a constitutional state where the law applies to all in the same way as before the law as the Constitution provides for, and where the principles of the division of power are consistently respected and where the legislative decision is a legally binding decision and it is clear that the person who has the power is obliged to do so unconditionally. You will therefore decide what voters decided four years ago, as you promised them to respect the principles of ethics, morality and the rule of law. In all these stories, these three principles were not only trampled but destroyed. It is not a question of Ahmad Shamieh, it is a question of whether in Slovenia the law is in fact the one that is valid for everything in the same way – that no one can work in the dark, that no one can break the law, that no one can take the right to give someone else the right to break the law, even on behalf of a multicultural or anything else, as it has done in illegal migrants. It is therefore a question of what will be the future development of Slovenia. For only a country that is safe and has the same criteria for all, and which establishes for all the same environment, of course, an entrepreneurial environment, can be a state of prosperity. Otherwise, we live in a country where the only good thing this government has done to build the fences is unfortunately too late. Today, the one who is offered as some self - called deliverer is already predicting that he will remove these fences immediately, which means that he is more left than the present left government. And that is what is so very wrong when so many times in this country, what is a problem caused by too much socialism, is forecasting as a solution or offering a solution to even more socialism. Ali. If you want, Murphy's marriage: if you leave things to the left to run on the natural path, they go from bad to worse. Ladies and gentlemen, by law, by law, by law, you can't play with the constitution. If the constitution falls, if there is no longer a rule of law, then the state cannot function either. This is primarily the responsibility of those who have power, it is said [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u3	Time [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u4	on the government, headed by the Prime Minister of the Government. [[…]] If he knowingly violates this, he is the only appropriate and appropriate measure to charge him with a constitutional charge and to be decided by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which we also propose in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u5	I give the floor to Dr. Mir Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to respond to the motion for an indictment.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues from the Government, representatives of the media, dear citizens and citizens! As President of the Government today, I must defend myself before the supreme legislative body of our Republic that I have not violated the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Slovenia. It is up to my defence and your judgment, honourable Members and Members, whether or not the National Assembly will accept the motion for an indictment filed by 19 SDS Members and send it to the Constitutional Court, which should also decide, upon a proposal, that my office as President of the Government ceases. I originally prepared this answer as the Prime Minister of the Government, but also as a lawyer, as a law professor, as someone who co-created the Slovenian Constitution and therefore very well knows the Institute of Constitutional Prosecutions. With legal arguments, I would like to reject the proposal for a constitutional indictment as unfounded. As President of the Government, I would also like to speak politically about the unacceptable abuse of the system. Such abuses – and submit these constitutional accusations is undoubtedly one of them – want to evaluate democratic institutions. I am doing exactly the opposite for a higher political and legal culture. And with this effort, I will not give up. Before responding in a row to the unwarranted findings of the constitutional charge, I would stop in two aspects of the charge, which concern a somewhat broader context, even more important for its understanding and strong rejection. The first is the refugee crisis, which marked 2015 and 2016. Our government did not create this crisis and even less wanted it, but it had to face it. Today, almost two years later, images of the river of refugees and other migrants may have faded slightly from memory, but at that time they were still real. At the core of our current policy was the weighing of two values – the well-being of our citizens and the well-being of refugees. I hope to say that we have taken care of both values to the best of our ability; we have taken care of migrants where the right required and allowed opportunities. Where it was certain that their welfare would not be compromised, they continued their journey or returned them to safe countries. We have also taken care of the welfare of our citizens — both at the border and of all others — because we have not burdened them too much and at the same time we have taken care of their safety. Your Honor! The key issue raised by this constitutional charge is: Do government authorities have a duty to act humanly when the law and relations allow it? Can they, when they have two paths that are both equal, but one more human than the other, choose the one that more reflects humanity, humanity? Can we, therefore, today, when security conditions allow us to do so and not question the human rights of our citizens, allow a person who is successfully and far above average to join our society to do so in accordance with the legal order? On my initiative as SDS Members tell me, my attitude towards this fundamental dilemma is clear to you. I can't always do it, but that's why I'll never give it up. This makes us, in another important aspect, a constitutional charge this time; not only painful but perhaps even more harmful in the long run. This is a criminalisation of political decisions. The constitutional charge that I am responding to today is not only an eloquent illustration, but a highlight of this worrying trend. It is obvious – and this is further confirmed by the recent judgement of the Administrative Court concerning the fate of Ahmad Shamieh – that the constitutional charge is unfounded, but that part of the opposition has reached out to this institution of our constitutional democracy, which is one of its most difficult weapons. The Constitution allows, in Article 119, a constitutional charge against the President of the Government if he is to violate the Constitution and the law in the exercise of his office. Experts agree that these violations must reach a certain level of importance or seriousness in order for the constitutional charge to be a suitable response to alleged violations. Of course, the government is not only a political body, it is also a legal body. It is clearly legally bound in its operation, including in its political activities. This aspect is not disputed. However, it is essential that the functioning of the Government is not legally regulated until this point, when only one decision is always possible. The wisdom of the legal regime of a modern state of law is reflected in the fact that law in certain places withdraws or leaves room for valuable judgment. Without a valuable judgement, ladies and gentlemen, there is no serious policy, there is no state decision and there is no decisive country. The debate on such a valuable decision, which is not only legally permissible but legally ordered, is the basic message of my performance today. My proposal to study and use the appropriate legal options to allow Mr Shamieh to stay in Slovenia will not be defended by an argument that the Government did not accept it. The fact that we have not taken a decision about him tells us much about our internal relations and about the time we are in. But there's no way he's talking about the wrongness of my efforts. So let me tell you what I'm trying to do. More than that, I think all the Prime Minister should do. For the holder of this function is not and must not be a subject which should not be opened or challenged if only in this case the interests of the community and the State are before and above individual and partial interests. From this point of view, the story of the fugitive Shamieh is much more ours than his story. I have seen it, and I am still taking the opportunity to show our democratic maturity, our distinctive hospitality, but also our political discretion. Paradoxically, saving his fate would not save an individual, but would enrich the community. We would enrich our collective experience with demonstrated solidarity, with an effective concern for human rights. And that's for that twin who tells us the most about ourselves because it comes from somewhere else. By wanting to become one of us, he puts to the test the seriousness and reality of our other words. Not laws, for they are not threatened or violated by anything, but by our commitments: how serious we are when we talk about caring for the human being; how serious we are when we say that the system is designed for people and not the other way around. All this, honourable Members, I had in mind and before my eyes when I decided to give Mr Shamieh permission to stay in Slovenia, we are discussing in the Government. For today's answer, therefore, it has not been difficult for me to take away all the legal arguments that I can justify my proposal. In order to understand my further implementation, I must clearly establish the difference between the two applicable laws — the Aliens Act and the International Protection Act — before each of the points has been individually rejected and any of the provisions of the Constitutional Charge. The Aliens Act in Article 3, paragraph 4, provides that this law shall not apply to foreigners who have applied for international protection and not to foreigners who have been granted international protection in the Republic of Slovenia, unless otherwise specified by law. However, the procedure under the Dublin Regulation should be understood as one of the types of procedure for the recognition of international protection. The Law on International Protection provides in Article 51 that an application for international protection shall be rejected by a decision if, on the basis of the criteria laid down in the Dublin Regulation, another State is responsible for examining an application for international protection. This implements Article 33 of EU Directive 2013/32 into the national legal order. Therefore, the Law on Foreigners can only be applied when an application for international protection has already been decided. The second introductory point refers to the well-known fact that in the administrative procedure, regulation is different from in others, that in this procedure there is no objective jurisdiction under which a legal case is not allowed to be decided in any way at all, as is the case in criminal law, but is subjective jurisdiction in administrative proceedings, according to which it is also possible to rule again on the legal case, but only by not in the interests of the party. Thus, a legislative decision in the administrative procedure does not always constitute a final decision on the legal situation of a particular person. However, the third important introductory point concerns the actual situation with regard to the Ahmad Shamieh case, and from this point of view my direct response to the constitutional charge is already beginning. It is necessary to clarify that the implementation of the Dublin Regulation is for the transfer of persons to another EU Member State or to accession to the Dublin Regulation and not to deportation, as suggested by the applicants. The deportation decision has never been issued by the Ministry of the Interior. Furthermore, I now set my arguments in line, as the applicants of the constitutional charge have classified them according to points and points, in order to make it easier for them to follow and understand the unwarrantedness and legal nature of their own accusations. First, I refer to item 1 of the constitutional charge, which is a description of the actual situation. The constitutional charge was filed on my proposal that the Government decide to grant a temporary residence permit to Ahmad Shamieh. His path, as we know, began in broken Syria. As thousands of his compatriots, the trip began by crossing the Turkish border and continued through Greece, Macedonia, Serbia to Croatia and Slovenia. When the Croatian border authorities entered Croatia, they did not carry out the compulsory procedure prescribed by the Schengen legislation, but for them and other refugees they simply organised rail transport to the Slovenian state border. Ahmad Shamieh entered Slovenia on 20 February 2016 at the border crossing of Dobova, where registration was made. The following day it was handed over to the Austrian security authorities and, since these authorities had found that it did not meet the conditions for entry into the Republic of Austria, it was returned on the same day to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Two days later Ahmad Shamieh submitted an application for international protection in Slovenia. Unlike the vast majority of other refugees who want to leave our country as soon as possible, Ahmad Shamieh also took our homeland as his new home. Among our people he found acquaintances and friends, learned the Slovenian language, found work and began to perform many useful activities. So at this point, his fate becomes extraordinary. In the meantime, he also tried to settle his actual situation along the legal path. His request was addressed by the Ministry of the Interior, but the decision to fulfil the conditions did not take place, as it assessed that the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the treatment of his situation, i.e. the substantive debate – and this information is essential – so it did not happen at all. On 27 June 2016, Mr Shamieh brought an action against the decision of the Ministry before the Administrative Court. On 4 July 2016, the Commission rejected its action by judgment and, by decision, postponed the enforcement of the contested decision of the Ministry of Justice pending the issue of a legislative decision in an administrative dispute. The legal proceedings continued in the Supreme Court. On the basis of the opinion obtained, the Court of Justice of the European Union decided on the appeal in a specific administrative dispute and attached its judgment to the Administrative Court. Ahmad Shamieh then filed a constitutional complaint, which was rejected by stating that all legal remedies had not yet been exhausted in this legal process. In point 2, the proposers of the constitutional charge read out to me illegal and unconstitutional intervention. In paragraph 3, they claim that the “deportation decision” – which is wrong, of course – “has become legal and enforceable.” It is true that the Supreme Court ruled on the case in law, as I said, but, as it is said, it is an imprecise status of jurisdiction to attribute the deportation decision, since the Ministry has never issued such a decision. And, as I have already said, the implementation of the Dublin Regulation is for the surrender of a person to another EU Member State or to accession to the Dublin Regulation, and therefore, I repeat, not for deportation. Since the original assumption of the whole second point is wrong, we should not be surprised that it is also misappreciated in the same indent, so that "the procedure for granting temporary residence under Article 51 of the Aliens Act could be implemented before the deportation decision became legal and enforceable." As I explained earlier, it is totally indisputable that the Foreigners Act can only be applied after this — not before that — but after the legal procedure under the International Protection Act has been completed. Thus, in the case of Ahmad Shamieh, the Supreme Court’s legal decision met the condition that the application of the Law on Foreigners, which confers discretion on State authorities, could have occurred, this is the right of discretion to grant temporary residence permits for a certain period of time — and not for citizenship, as Mr Grims previously mistakenly stated. In this respect, as in all others, my conduct has been perfectly justified and I therefore strongly reject the second point of the constitutional charge. This logical fact that the law on foreigners cannot apply to the legality of the procedure under the Law on International Protection, and it did not prevent the applicants from infringing four articles of the Constitution: 2, 8, 120 and 153 and, at the same time, a violation of article 14 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me first explain that if you are a foreigner who has not yet been carried out after the legal proceedings under the Law on International Protection have been completed, it may regulate the status on some other legal basis, for example, under the Aliens Act. The third paragraph of Article 51 of the Aliens Act provides that a foreigner whose residence in Slovenia is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia may be granted a temporary residence permit in Slovenia, but not for more than five years. The law provides that the Government shall, at the request of the Ministry or other State authority concerned, decide that the Republic of Slovenia has an interest in granting a temporary residence permit to a foreigner. On the basis of a decision of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior shall then, after an official duty, introduce a procedure. A temporary residence permit may be issued if certain additional conditions are further met to ensure that the alien does not endanger the safety and health of the persons or violates the legal order. As Prime Minister of the Government, I therefore proposed a perfectly legal option because I wanted to check whether the Government would be able to act in accordance with Article 51 of the Foreigners Act, under which I would find that Ahmad Shamieh's residence in the Republic of Slovenia is in the interest of our country. In this case, he could be granted a temporary residence permit for up to five years. The Government has not decided that this interest exists, so Article 51 of this Act has not been applied. Of course, there has been no such thing as any violation of the Constitution or of the law. The third point of the constitutional charge must also be strongly rejected – not to say even misleading – as stated in the fourth indent in order to make it a "commitment under an international contract which cannot be dependent on the arbitral decision of the President of the Government." The Dublin procedure is part of European Union law, more specifically EU Regulation No 604/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013. This Regulation is a secondary legal act of law of the European Union, respected applicants, and as such — not as an international treaty — is directly applicable in national legislation. For that reason alone, my conduct could not in any way constitute a violation of Article 8 of the Constitution, which provides for the application of international treaties directly. However, more than this failure by the applicants, it is essential that the so-called sovereign clause referred to in Article 17, paragraph 17, of the Dublin Regulation provides that any Member State may decide to consider an application for international protection lodged by a third-country national or a stateless person, even if such treatment is not its responsibility in accordance with the criteria laid down in this Regulation. It is clear from this that the Dublin Regulation lays down in this respect the rights of the State to deal with applications for international protection, rather than the duty not to deal with certain requests. In the fifth indent of the third point, the applicants stated that it is the responsibility of the Migration Office, which, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on State Administration, must act independently, not “... on the basis of the political instructions of the President of the Government.” This is a rare complaint from a constitutional charge which, of course, can be agreed with; the whole state administration must act independently, within and on the basis of the Constitution and laws, in accordance with Article 120(2). This applies both to Directorates referred to by the applicant in the constitutional charge and to government services such as the Office for the Care and Integration of Migrants. It is also true that the State Administration must be politically neutral in its work, must not act biasedly and must not interfere with legal cases. By no means, however, do they hold to the statement that I, as Prime Minister of the Government, have done anything illegal about this. By opening a debate on the possibility of humanitarian application of regulations, as provided by both Article 51 of the Law on Foreigners and Article 17 of the Dublin Regulation, I did not give any instructions to anyone. In addition, this is a separate procedure based on separate legal bases: under the Law on International Protection it is a matter of decision-making procedures for the State administration, and the discussion of the possibility of applying the legal basis under the Law on Foreigners and the Dublin Regulation is also, and in particular, in the domain of political decision-making, which undoubtedly falls within the working order of the Prime Minister of the Government. With regard to the statement set out in the sixth indent of the third point that in Slovenia “most applicants for international protection have been rejected”, it must be made clear that this statement is not true.In 2016, 96 applications were rejected since the submission of a thousand 308 applications and 170 were granted! By the end of October 2017, 79 applications had been rejected from the thousands of 188 and 137 were granted international protection status in 137 proceedings. In all other cases, procedures have been suspended for leaving asylum homes or requests have been rejected before substantive treatment. In the 7th indent of paragraph 3, the applicants point out Article 7 of the Law on State Administration, where “the powers of the Government to intervene in the work of the State administration” should be laid down, and the President of the Government should have “no powers whatsoever to intervene in the work of the State Administration”. Article 7 above, if we look at it, the truth only speaks of the power of the Government to determine how the administration operates with the parties, so it is simply not clear what the applicants here wanted to tell me. Therefore, at this point, I strongly refuse to state the constitutional charge that my conduct would constitute a violation of Articles 3 and 7 of the Law on State Administration. Both provisions are completely unrelated to the specific case. The constitutional charge in several places suggests that the treatment of Ahmad Shamieh should be different from the treatment of other refugees. This observation shows a complete misunderstanding of the essence of discretionary decision under Article 51, paragraph 3, of the Aliens Act. This provides that a temporary residence permit may be issued to a foreigner whose residence in Slovenia is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore a discretionary assessment, which is therefore not yet arbitrary, as it must take into account the purpose of this legal provision and the public interest. This decision is therefore always to a certain extent valuable and cannot therefore be predetermined. The motions for a constitutional indictment, in the eighth indent of paragraph 3, show that my actions — even though they were solely a proposal for examination and discussion — meant not only a violation of the legal powers, but also a crime of abuse of the situation or of official rights under Article 257 of the Penal Code, with which Ahmad Shamiehu was to gain even a non-profit and property benefit. This observation, respected motioners, is literally pointless. In this case, we cannot even talk about the hypothetical offence referred to in this Article of the Code, because it is not a crime of any kind, but rather a proposal by the President of the Government to find possible legal solutions, which did not lead to the substantive decision that I, of course, wanted. In assessing the conduct of any Prime Minister, the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the Prime Minister shall lead and direct the work of the Government, ensure the unity of the political and administrative direction of the Government, coordinate the work of ministers, represent the government and convenes and directs its meetings. It is clear from this provision that the President has the right and authority to raise such issues as the solution of the Ahmad Shamieh refugee case. This competence stems from Article 114 of the Constitution and from the very nature of the prime minister's function, and it is therefore extremely inappropriate for her to attempt to be challenged or even withdrawn through the constitutional indictment procedure in this case. My conduct was also entirely in line with the arrest I handed out on 25 August 2014 before you, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly. Then I said that I would swear to respect the constitutional order, to follow my conscience and to work with all my strength for the welfare of Slovenia. In line with this arrest and within the framework of the constitutional order, which is also part of our and international human rights law, I have, in my personal conscience, decided to take an initiative, not only in the humane aspect but also in the most sober way, to reflect on the interest of Slovenia. I have therefore assessed that such a proposal is appropriate, legally indisputable and fair. That is why I still accept all political responsibility for him today. However, I completely reject the evidence of its unconstitutionality and illegality, as I have never, nor will I ever intervene in the procedures of autonomous and independent state authorities. Dear Members, honourable Members, dear citizens and citizens! Let me put an end to the political aspect of the whole thing. This aspect points to an extremely large gap between how the rule of law and the protection of human rights are understood by the proponents of the constitutional charge and how I understand these two concepts – as a citizen, as a lawyer and as Prime Minister of the Government. What you consider to be a violation of the Constitution and the laws, the abuse of rights and powers, even a crime, is a legitimate effort for me to realize human dignity, even in the context of public interest. In a valuable world for which, as Prime Minister of the Government, I strive every day for my mandate, and let me say that every day of my term, I am trying primarily – what I see as a mag. Grims – for our people. [[…]] Every day the government works for our citizens, pensioners, those who are in trouble, unemployed, for everything because we are trying to help. So, there is no room in the valuable world that, as Prime Minister of the Government, I seek every day for the thoughts or actions you represent. Therefore, Members of the SDS, I reject your actions, as I reject each of the points of your constitutional accusation! I invite all other Members and Members to reject, by rejecting an unwarranted constitutional charge, a policy which degrades the Slovenian political scene with such accusations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u7	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u8	Nice greeting, ladies and gentlemen! Did Mr. Miro Cerar really violate the Constitution? It's a question for constitutional lawyers. However, our Constitution provides in Article 119 that if the Prime Minister or the Minister violates the Constitution or the law in performing his office, he may be charged by the National Assembly before the Constitutional Court. In our party, we believe that Mr Cerar, who is a constitutional lawyer, has not made a mistake in assessing what he can do as Prime Minister and what would be considered an overriding of his powers. In this case, however, the fact that he acted on his conscience or simply tried to please a certain part of the electorate does not relieve him of responsibility if he really abused the situation. I welcome the awakening of Cerara's human soul in the case of the Syrian fugitive, but let us not forget – Cerara's government has set up a wire around Slovenia and, despite warnings from NGOs and human rights experts, adopted also, in my opinion, an unconstitutional law on foreigners. This unconstitutional law was passed by SMC in coalition with the SDS, which is the proponent of today's consideration of the alleged unconstitutional behaviour of the Prime Minister of the Government. It is sad that Mr Cerar's reaction in the case of the fugitive Ahmad is mainly due to public opinion, but not to his political opinion that people in distress should be helped. It is even sadder that the President of the Government promises something and then the Government does not do it, but for six hours he discusses the matter and ends it without a solution. This is most worrying of all: that the influence of the President of the Government on the governance and decisions of the Government is minor or absent. However, there is a constitutional charge before us, which we will not support in our parliamentary group. Not because the work of the Prime Minister would please us. Most of what Prime Minister Cerar said and promised blew up. Unfortunately, the case of the Syrian refugee is only one of those who show that Mr Cerar has been saying one thing from the beginning and another he is doing or saying something, and then he does not do so. In the government, he has ministers who have illegally received part of his salary. Part of his team was the minister, who was criminally charged, also for the illegal payment of salaries. Part of his team was the minister who copied her master’s degree and therefore lost her scientific title – whether or not she believed it was the Minister of Education and Science. Part of his team is the secretary of state who lied about his education. And I could count it. All of this just to illustrate that there was nothing left of his ethics and morals for a long time. Clearly, respect for laws is already a problem, as is respect for unwritten ethical rules. In the latter, the government of Mira Cerar, unfortunately, laid on the entire line. However, I can say that the government of Mr Cerar deserves to be commended for its actions and actions when the refugee wave in our country was the largest. When this mass arrival of refugees ended, it began. First, the adoption of the Foreigners Act, which would not be ashamed of even the most right-wing government. You have accepted it despite the warnings of most legal professionals, the non-governmental sector and even the Council of Europe. You have accepted it together with SMC and SDS; a coalition which Mr Cerar says is not possible, although it obviously already exists and works. After the refugees no longer came to our country as mass as they did, a barbed wire was being built around our country. This inhuman cutting wire is another proof of how similar SMC and SDS are. In view of their hustling against refugees, the construction of the wire around Slovenia would be attributed to only one party, that is SDS, and then Cerar will build the wire. Apparently it's the same policy, it's about spreading fear of someone who's running from war. To spread fear of those who escaped fear themselves, from those who were willing to die just to escape the horrors of their homeland. And Cerar sets up a cutting wire. During the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we had no problem accepting 70,000 refugees. This is our solidarity, not putting obstacles on those who are in trouble. The explanation by the Government of Mr Cerar that it has set up a wire to direct the refugees on their way is, of course, barren. In fact, there were no more refugees at all. He's not dealing with people's hardships, he's only dealing with how to get these people as quietly as possible and as quietly as possible. The example of the fugitive Ahmad, the adoption of the Aliens Act and the installation of the wire are all givings when Prime Minister Cerar sailed on the wave of the most heard or popular opinion of the public. When he thought that he could gain some political points by playing with compassion for one of the refugees, he was, as some say, willing even to violate the Constitution. Like I said before, whether or not she is, I can't and I won't judge. That's what other people are called for. In all these cases, however, Mr Cerar has taken up a pre-election promise. Instead of being responsible for giving him peace and loving him, he preferred to choose what was popular in public, rather than what was right. The Constitutional Court is likely to decide and judge what we have on the table today, but I believe that the voters will condemn this and such acts. In your work, Mr Cerar, it is not just about constantly adjusting the boundaries of what is also ethical and moral. Unfortunately, the construction of the wire around Slovenia is in fact the only action you have taken and implemented. Before I took over the government myself in 2013, at the time of the biggest crisis, we offered you, Mr Cerar, to take over the government, but you didn't want to. You probably thought it was too hard at the time. Today, after all I have seen in these almost four years of your rule, I agree with your decision, and I think it is better that you did not accept the offer at that time. Only after the crisis, when economic growth turned from minus four to plus three percent, did you become Prime Minister. The worst problems, the big problems were already behind us. The new government could start to regulate things in the areas of health, pensions, public sector wages, social, public finances and also the economy, and it was important for you to build a cutting wire. You donated a multimillion-dollar business to an enterprise that had a blocked account until then and no references to this business, which I believe was, so to speak, your government's most important security project. Who found this company in whose interest it was that a 10-million-dollar business got a company with a blocked account? A company operating at the same address as that of the local SMC committee. But let us leave this to the criminals and rather look at other cases that may not be the subject of a constitutional charge, but they could leave the government to someone else. Let's see what you managed to do in addition to buying hundreds of kilometers of wire and fence during one major economic growth during the period of Slovenia. Health care; not only is more and more people waiting for a specialist examination or intervention, almost 50,000 people have been waiting for this for an unacceptable period. In 2013, when I led the government alone, we had €2.3 billion available for health care. You only have them this year, pay attention, this year alone, €400 million more, but there are still more waiting. Like I said, almost 50,000 people have been waiting for a long time. Do you have any idea how long the line would be if those waiting for you stood up for each other? 40 kilometers from Ljubljana to Trojan is a long column of those who are waiting for an unacceptable length of time. This is a sad picture of our health system after the mandate of the government of Mir Cerar. And we can add to this picture actual catastrophic recruitment in the largest health care establishments and the loss of hospitals, which are more or less due to the increase in the salaries of doctors. This is the real case for the collapse of this government, not for the Syrian refugee. Given how you're always defending yourself with all the evidence, you'll probably answer me, because you were also the Minister of Health, why you didn't take care of it. But that would be another one of your conjectures. When I ran the government, yes, the country was threatened with bankruptcy, so we had other priorities and, above all, much, much less money. If we continued to lead the government after we managed to get the country out of the crisis, we could really focus on things that you didn't, even though you had all the conditions, more money and peace of voters who trusted you. You are also responsible for having managed to lead us to the biggest public sector statement in our country's history. The statement of police officers, schoolchildren, state administrations and more is announced and could be listed. At the strike of the Owl employees, you haven't even shuddered as if that wasn't your problem. And sova is directly subordinated to the Prime Minister of the Government, which means that you are also directly responsible for the strike. You preferred to deal with one refugee because of public pressure, of course in order to increase your popularity, instead of at least trying to provide decent salaries to public officials at a time of high economic growth without austerity measures. It is true, however, that you have employed an additional 8,000 people in the public administration, which is an extremely ethical way of buying electoral votes. There's no money for teachers, no money for cops, no money for nurses, no money for pensioners; it's money for Mrs. Glavina, and it's 15,000 euros a month. Fortunately, under the weight of the public opinion, you gave in at least the idea that Luke Koper's leadership would be taken over by your State Secretary, Jure Leben, but still you replaced Luke's leadership instead of SDH. And in all these cases, you are not playing with the fate of one man, but with the fate of all citizens, with the fate of the present and future pensioners and young people. You are playing with a social state that can only be provided by well-functioning companies. We have been here for three years in the National Assembly to draw attention to the poor management of state property, but nothing happens. You transfer companies from bad bank to SDH, from SDH to country, from country to SDH, as if you were translating pears from bag to bag. Not to mention the cheap sale of the New Bank of Credit Maribor and the management of the New Bank of Ljubljana. At first, you have convinced us for two and a half years that respect for the European Commission's decision is all you can do in connection with the New Ljubljana Bank. After two and a half years, you have found that this decision is still yes and can be changed. Too late. Now you will leave the bank to free management of a foreigner and the decision on the fate of the New Ljubljana Bank to your successor. Therefore, although we will not support this constitutional charge, which is before us today, we are convinced that Mr Cerar, because of all the above-mentioned position of Prime Minister of the Government, should have left it to another for a long time. What we need is not the President of the Government who adapts to public opinion and wants to be liked at all costs. This adaptation to public opinion may not be unconstitutional, it may not be illegal, but it is extremely harmful. And because of this, fugitive Ahmad, unfortunately, is not the first or last person to get hurt.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u9	Let's go back to the subject matter of the constitutional charge. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, the last of which is Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, honored by both presidents, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Above all, citizens and citizens, this initial first appeal to you. Today's constitutional indictment, SDS; I believe that now the camera will show how many of them are sitting here, it seems, have crisis headquarters. I'm sorry to hear a lot of what I'm about to read as the position of the Modern Centre Party. He is neither the leader of the parliamentary group nor this SDS member, who, on your behalf today, performs this main reporting function, is your party president. So I don't know what you're reporting. We'll probably have a clear day's end. We have before us the proposal by the SDS Group to initiate proceedings for the indictment of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court. In your work, the SDS states that the President of the Government is to violate the Constitution and the law, even if he is to try to gain wealth and non-profit benefits for another person by his actions or actions. In theory, worse legal and political charges do not know our democratic system, such as constitutional charges. In practice, however, when this institution fails to apply on the part of the proposers, the political decision will only prove to be the result of their irresponsible move and policy. In our case today as a failed SDS opening move in the campaign for the upcoming parliamentary elections. That's what you're doing today. Literally overnight you wrote a complete, sub-average text, and above all an unfounded text, which you named as a motion for an accusation by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Why such an act of yours has failed, failed, and in all the elements of this text without justification, we will serve my colleagues and colleagues from the Modern Centre Party Group with substantive, data, financial and other verifiable facts during today's debate alongside the President of the Government. Allow me now, however, to tell you again, and especially the people who are accompanying your current political fiasco, how in the SDS, under the constitutional charge of the President of the Government and his development and the resurgence of targeted leadership of the country, you are abusing Slovenian political space. First of all, as far as your relationship with the constitutional tools for controlling the government's work is concerned. After the ease of actual use and even more constant threats with constitutional accusations and interpretations of the work of the Government, you are the world recorders in the SDS. After a failed attempt to interpret the government and a dozen unsuccessful interlocutors of the ministers of this government today, with the proposal of a constitutional indictment by the Prime Minister of the Government, you continue your campaign bitterly. The march predominates fear, hatred and terror against all people who do not blindly follow you. To all who openly oppose your one mind and your dark visions of quarreling, terrified and impatient societies. Instead of helping persecuted and oppressed ones by your work and example, your view of your fellow man and society gives only additional courage to the persecutors and oppressors. You're scared, you're chasing everyone who's not in your image. But, okay. You already know on your own why you make such hatred of people. On this occasion, I would like to take you back to your political history, which is where you always like to go. So much so that we can all freshen up your past misinterpretations of the Institute of Constitutional Accusation. Slovenia is still well aware of your failed proposals for constitutional accusations by Prime Minister Janez Drnovska and of the unsuccessful accusations by the President of the Republic, Dr Danil Türk, as well as some threats with constitutional accusations that you did not then carry out. Whenever you have made constitutional accusations, you have neither the truth nor the argument, but you have faked your reality with manipulations, deceptions, lies, with the friaring of numbers, as you have done at the beginning of today, by showing — deceitfully, of course — the cost for people who are in distress to survive, of course not in your image. Today's fifth motion for a constitutional indictment in Slovenia alone has led your method to absurdity and perversion. You are attempting to impose unlawful and unlawful conduct on the President of the Government only because he has asked all the competent authorities to exhaust the legal process of domestic and international law in his work because he wanted to help a person in distress. Now I could move on to your second part, your second, even more aboriginal part of the content of the constitutional charge, just this part through the eyes or an attempt to obtain the wealth and property benefits of the President of the Government. This part of your text is particularly psychologically interesting; in fact it shows your vision of yourself through the mutilation of the image of another. The long-known constant and guidance of your work is that without any evidence, you read exactly what you are doing on your own. We could all now refresh our memories of the acquisition of the wealth and property benefits of your political action, from hiring family members of your party's leading people further. Who will be responsible for this property damage, nepotism and corruption, for the abuse of citizens' and citizens' money only for the fact that your relatives receive high wages? We will present the following with a number of arguments in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, the facts at today's meeting. We will tell you why the proposal for a constitutional indictment by the President of the Government is unfounded in purely all the statements put forward. We will talk about why it is necessary to cut the knots of deceptions, non-realitys, threats, manipulations and clearly and decisively say not to the SDS policy that leads Slovenia along the path of a radical European right based on fear, intolerance, even hostility to different ones. Above all, Members and Members of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will speak out loud about why a future-oriented Slovenia needs a peaceful, stable, sound and inclusive policy, whose growth and development can be justified only by respect for and exercise of the universal human rights of each individual, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material condition, birth, education, social position, disability or any other personal situation. And why should these and such human rights be specifically and decisively reestablished in these times? This is the only real policy and direction for the future of Slovenia and is the only real policy we believe in and work for in the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u11	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u12	Thank you very much. President, it was clear that today there would be no polite words; this, on my part, you did not expect, did you? I would point out, however, that the Pre-Priest, Mrs Kustec, has crossed all borders. You've crossed all the boundaries, so you're very lucky to be a woman, because otherwise you'd be a lot sharper now.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u13	It has nothing to do with being a woman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u14	President, please calm down over there for your pay phone! When she attacked the SDS, you looked down and signed some papers. And please, we're going to behave as we should. Of course, I'm not going to be very forgiving with you, but I'm going to respect the criteria that you're a woman, and I have to be more polite because I'm just a man. That's why. Now look at the next thing. 1.46 minutes of introduction, the speaker actually spoke – because I have no words about what you were doing – and the President did not warn you at all. Mrs. Bratuškovo has warned you that he must talk about the subject. Now we're going to say this; you say, dark forces, there on the right, you say, intolerance, you say, you scare, you say, you have persecution, you have disrespect for constitutional charges, manipulation, complicated costs and so on. Look, that's what I heard from Cresal in 2009. In 2013, let's say that lady from the court, as she was already writing, I forgot. But after four elections, I'm still here, and these dark forces are still here. Isn't that interesting? There are still these dark forces here. Here before me, every three years or four years you change, just like you will when my colleagues are still sitting here. But we're going to the content. Why are you doing the problem and what are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? President of the Government, I urge you to reject the matter. By the way, both doctors of science, constitutional lawyer, you're a doctor in some other area. Right, then even worse. [[…]] Why? Because you would imagine coming for a pay phone and talking with arguments, not reading letters, as well as the President of the Government. If he's so sure of his right I'm what I'm sure I'm right about, able to say without bricks or with points of support. [[…]] I also ask the President of the Government, what is the problem, but why should Members refuse to do so, President? The procedure is two-phase. The first is here in the National Assembly, and the second is in the Constitutional Court. If you are so sure of your right not to do anything wrong, let the judges decide. The Constitutional Judges should decide that and not your friends that you have here. Why? What are you afraid of? If you are right, leave it to the Constitutional Court to decide the situation. Then what are you afraid of? What's the problem? Yes, the problem is that you will prevent the vote from allowing the Constitutional Judges to decide. Or as I once said about this pay phone, protected persons — and they know behind me what it looks like — when you're in danger of life, they throw one of these sheets of lead over you. That's what you're gonna do with the Prime Minister. Yeah, why would he do that if he didn't do anything wrong? Why, if that's what you're saying? But the content next. See, the constitutional charge is a very serious matter, but if the President of the Government violates the laws and the constitution – in my deep belief, too, a crime under the 257th Article of the Penal Code, abuse of the position and acquisition of the non-profit benefit, of course, the possibility of this gentleman being here in Slovenia – then the opposition must do so. Yeah, then what? What's left of the opposition? Because otherwise, everyone will do such things in order. This is the mission of the opposition, my dears, and I don't know what the President of the Government is so afraid of, and I don't know what he's saying if he says he's done all right. And about what he did wrong, I'll keep saying that. You're trying to reduce the issue to some violation of the law, trying to reduce the issue to hostility towards foreigners. My dears, remember how many you had at home in 1994, right there in Bosnia. Many Slovenians, many citizens of Slovenia have had it – 70 000 here in Slovenia – and the SDS has not given any initiative for any interpretation or anything like that because they were real asylum seekers, for international protection. These are older men and children are women. But in this population, it's almost gone, and you can't talk to me about compassion issues, and I don't know what the Prime Minister used to say. Why should I feel sorry for the man who left his wife in the war and fled? Why do I have to feel sorry for him? I can't and I won't. And this same woman now walks down Syria with a rifle and liberates Syria, and this man is here. And by the way, Mrs. Kustec says you're manipulating numbers. We didn't make it up, the Court of Auditors said, a thousand 963 euros in total costs, a thousand 963; go to the Chief of the Court of Auditors and tell him he's manipulating. You don't think so? Of course not, because the number is correct, but it is a common cost. [[advertising from the hall]] Before, and especially around June 3rd, when it's different. Let's move on to the facts. Look, now you're talking, even Mrs. Bratuškov's knowledge of the fugitive Yes is not true, there are no refugees, because they can come with the parachute from the luft, otherwise they can't technically come to Slovenia; this is the same, I don't know, what kind of comparison they could give. [[…]] In Slovenia there are illegal migrants and whoever entered Slovenia is an illegal migrant because he could ask for international protection in five countries from Slovenia. Yeah, you can laugh, I'll laugh to you on June 3rd. Let's move on. See, this gentleman, who Slovenia, clearly, likes the most in this world and Mr Cerar spoke earlier about registration; that is, he was registered in Dobova. [[…]] Yes, President of the Government, look in the law where you have any registration procedure written in the law – it is not, it is not in the law. Either he has applied for international protection or he has not submitted an application; if he has submitted it, the procedure is known, but if he has not submitted it, it is also known and not to sell the registration because he does not know the law. And then you said the Croats brought him to our border. Yeah, what did you do? You loaded it in the Age, and you took it to Shentyl, because it's the same. What, then, are you Crooking Chimphs? The same thing, at state expense. And, of course, the Austrians rejected him, and then again he liked Slovenia – you can't believe it, ha, but she must be really beautiful – who didn't see it at all because he took the train to Shentilj. Well, only then did he apply for international protection, which was rejected by the Ministry. I don't have any, I guess you'll understand, I'll say, sympathy for the Home Secretary. Politically, I can't throw them away because it's not my political option and it's my job to chimp her as an opposition MP. However, she did her job, she did her job, and I criticize her when she has to be criticized and I don't attack her when she doesn't have to attack her – an example of a water cannon. Now look ahead. Although the Constitutional Court has rejected the case, the European Court has said that Croatia must decide, our Supreme Court has said, Croatia must decide and the Minister must act accordingly. Yeah, what now? And the President of the Government, I don't know, President, how can I say to you, well, if I were greedy, I would be giving your students the recordings of this speech here today -- which, by the way, your Members are proud of, they told me. [[…]] I don't know what the students would say then, I don't know what to say. In the stage when the interior ministry has decided, you can no longer proceed under Article 51, you cannot. The judge is nodding now, but we will make this clear why. See if he's 14. 11. The interior ministry agreed – because it is not that easy and you put it on the van – the interior ministry is 14. 11. A clear agreement, and on this day at this and this hour we will hand it over there and there, and the Croats were ready for it and waited there too. Yes, but how else do deportation procedures proceed? Nothing else. They have to run like that. And that was 14. 11. Ready. And then, of course, the Prime Minister of the Government says, "I have committed myself to holding back tomorrow's decision on Ahmad Shamieh's deportation until all legal options are considered." But please! What's that? At this stage, the interior ministry has examined everything and the court has done everything, said its own, European and ours. And the following day: "The process of Mr Shamieh's return did not begin today. Due to special circumstances, I have decided that the Government will consider the proposal to issue a temporary residence permit, which allows us Article 51 of the Aliens Act...« and so on and so on. Uh, bad! Yes, as Constitutional Judge Boštjan M. Zupančič, and European Judge – at the ECHR, it was said, how much time, almost two decades or how long ago – he made it clear: "This train took you away," he said; "You could have used Article 51 under the legal conditions before you had made that decision, not then." And the president says he can. President, it's not possible. You'll be embarrassed in front of the students. No, you can't. You can't do that. You can't do this, but you did it. I don't know who was talking – but either you or the Prime Minister of the Government – about the human aspects of this act; the legal work that the Prime Minister of the Government was talking about, is that this story is our story and it's the story of Ahamd Shamieh. Yeah! Now I'm asking both of you. Look, you're the one who came to power with a password of the rule of law. We saw your face in all the pictures in Slovenia. I had no idea, I was driving through Šentjur, for example, but I had no idea who was running, but I saw you; only the rule of law was in Slovenia. And I'm warning you about this because this is how you won the election. But now you're trespassing, you're trespassing, whether you like it or not. If you're saying that I'm wrong, then call the Members to vote in favour and let the Constitutional Judges decide, and we'll reach out and we'll say, you were right or I was right. Let the Constitutional Judges decide. But you are fearfully calling for us to prevent constitutional judges from deciding. Why, though, are you afraid if you claim that the matter is legal? And now my famous question that I have no answer to, and so I ask the universal Slovenia for help if anyone knows anything about it — why Ahmad Shamieh? Why Ahmad Shamieh? Why some person who according to our criteria has secondary education and is a hairdresser or what is it called? [[...]] Why not the human aspect of it, why it is lawful to do legal work with it, and why it is our story, not just his. [[…]] Why him? Why not, in the Ministry of the Interior, tell us the exact number — a few hundred of the same cases? We don't have the same hundred cases when they're loaded into that white van and they're taking them to Croatia. And why not a human aspect, legal work and our story in the case of a Christian family with a child born in Slovenia? Why this child, born in Slovenia, and that family was not given your human aspect, and yours, and why they were not legally allowed to do so because they went to Croatia under the same article. By the same article! Same organs, same people signed it. Why not with them? Why wouldn't that be our story? Look, they are Christian religions, this is some average of Slovenia, having a child born here in Ljubljana. No, it's them. Why was there no human work here? And of course, I wonder, so I ask myself, and I don't have the answers to what happened to the Prime Minister at the time. Why would the human aspect, the legal work, and our story not be given any extended family? Yes, one who worked for 40 years in Slovenia, who paid 40 years of taxes and then didn't pay a couple hundred euros, gets – what? The decision and the road. Where is the President's human aspect? The president says he deals with these things in government every day. I'm not sure you and Ahmad are supposed to be together for six hours, that's what the press said, and then later. Why didn't the human aspect and legal work in you, Mrs. Kustec, arise in the case of the Solomon family? The man was looking through the rifle, where the dead were lying, in Trzin, he was involved in that battle. The man risked his life — I will say something new — to change into a foreign uniform to save our lives — the lives of those who worked for the independent Republic of Slovenia and served them for life in the Shantvian army. And he risked his life to save these people, or a specific man, who lives in the city of Slovenj Gradz today. Why, then, does he not have a human aspect? Why did SMC write a negative opinion, or why did your government write a negative opinion on that law? Thank you once again to all Members, including the SMC, except for the three of you, who, for whatever reason, have not been in favour. Why is there no human aspect here? But why are these only dark forces after they stand up, and these are dark forces, with me, not who I wrote that law. You see, these are dark forces, yes. That's what you said. But the answer will be, you know, I've been here for a while now, and there's always someone else sitting here talking about dark forces, and then they disappear in elections. So why not more than a hundred other people who went to Croatia in the same way? President, this is where I end up. I'll say, I'm going to some field where you have to answer yourself; but I don't have to answer the public either. But I'm asking myself who forced you to do this. Who forced you to do that? Who put you up to this? It's obvious you've fallen for it. In view of the consequences of the government's meeting and the statements made by Mr Erjavac and Mr Jew that there is no legal basis, they said, for Article 51 – I do not know who forced you to do so. But I will not ask myself whether anyone has given anything to anyone; that is, in Slovenia there is as much money as you want, especially from any illegal business with any foreign bank. I don't know that because I have no proof. But it's great, you know, you have people among these people, but among these hundreds of people who have colleges, they had to leave Slovenia. Then Ahmad Shamieh, who is a hairdresser, comes, and he receives all the graces, as if God waved with an olive branch. You can't paint me. Article 51 of the Foreigners Act, to which the President of the Government spoke, is therefore clear – it can be used in the procedure of granting international protection, but not after a decision has been taken to go to Croatia. I didn't invent this, it's probably the claim of the first Slovenian lawyer; or, all the Slovenian law students said, when you did BMZ, you did such a law college. Does that mean anything? That this man probably knows something, doesn't he, because he was also an ECHR judge? And another story. The Prime Minister of the Government has so vehemently argued that if, yes, because everything is clear, we can use this, paragraph 51. Yeah, that's not true! The 51st paragraph applies to that Tonček who used to play basketball for us, those black people, how he wrote himself. And thank God we gave him every opportunity to represent the state of Slovenia and if he ever comes to Slovenia again or not, it doesn't matter because he did something for that country. But you will not tell me that it is strategically important for this country — with hundreds of unemployed hairdressers — to give someone named Ahmad a stay. Why is that? You've got a couple hundred unemployed hairdressers. President of the Government, you have held back – if you think I am wrong, let's go to the Constitutional Court – you have said this publicly, an act which has been legally issued by the interior ministry, and therefore I claim that this is a crime, so I am talking about it. I was asked outside earlier by the press, have you filed a criminal complaint yet? And I said, maybe I'll do it myself, because the Member of Parliament hasn't discussed it yet. For example, I warned Fisher-Zalar for two years, and no one moved. Of course, the gentleman has gained an impeccable advantage with this consequence. And now the government's famous session. Look, the President you've done all this nice lecture; in most of the things you've read, I'll say, and you've explained how you can use Article 51, how you can put on a government meeting, how you can decide at a government meeting. Then why didn't you do it? And then why didn't you tell the government at that session, Article 51, here you have it, sure it is, and issue an appropriate legal act? Yeah, why didn't you do that? One day earlier, on Tuesday, you talk about how this is possible, and then the government's meeting will be held to discuss it, and you do not accept this decision. And now you're saying again here today that this decision is possible and legal. Yeah, why didn't you take him? Because you've been taken somewhere thirsty, as they call it, especially gentlemen from SD, I'll say, and also, well, I don't know what the role of Desus was. [[…]] But the fact is, after the meeting of the Government, Mr Erjavec made it clear that there are no legal conditions for the application of Article 51, which we have heard publicly. And Mr. Jew said the same thing, the same thing. But you're saying today that it's possible to use it! Yes, then use it, and put it to the government meeting tomorrow, and use it if you think it's possible to use it. There is something interesting about this; on the one hand, you claim that you can use it and we have been given an entire lecture, which I really have to get for a time after the parliamentary term, I will probably have more time to deal with it, because it seems to me that something really needs to be done from this performance by the Prime Minister of the Government from a scientific point of view, particularly how it is 14. 11. can be used as 16. 11. It is no longer possible to apply after the meeting of the Government of Article 51, and how is it possible to use A again today? [[…]] Then the dark forces are the problem. In addition to Desus and the SD, at least as I know – so sometimes someone tells me, even though you stopped recording the meetings of the Government or whatever and did not write the magnetograms; here I do not know what you are afraid of, but anyway – even at the government meeting, the interior minister said to her: “We were working legally, otherwise it is not possible to work.” she said, the same as the few months before: “The CAP sucks.” I certainly prefer people who are principled, but those who paint me; but once can Article 51, we cannot do Article 51, and now Article 51 can do so again. From this point of view, see, as she also has her flies, she has some strange suggestions, such as that of Solomon’s marriage, according to her household, but where it is about the defence of the rule of law, she probably plays her part more. [[…]] And, Prime Minister, if you are convinced that it is possible to use Article 51, I ask why you did not use it. Why didn't you send the Minister of Government home and say goodbye, you're not a minister anymore, we just confirm your discharge in Parliament and the end, or do you shake her hand a little? Look, why didn't you do it? Because you know she's right. And now the excuse, what is happening now, to say that the Administrative Court has decided something that he may be here. Have you read anything that the Administrative Court has decided? The Administrative Court has said nothing but that the Interior Minister must take the procedure once again for the reasons listed there. However, it did not say that the act of the interior ministry was illegal or anything like that. You need to read this. I read these things before I think about it. So Mr Zalar's decision is that we are clear; he always takes care of all business in a timely manner. For example, he saved the bulmastife in three hours. By fax, he gets the case, solves it, sends a decision after the fax. He reached out in due time, of course, in order to disturb today's debate, to please the President of the Government, who gave him a few arguments with this – what if only what would happen. Look, the Administrative Court said something. Fine arguments, but they're not arguments, because that's a joke. But according to the things we already know in this country, they reach out when they think they're smart. So let's just say that the Prime Minister of the Government is a criminal defendant, even though you don't know that he's been accused by a citizen of Willy Kovacic. Do we know that? No, no, no, no. Slave owners don't report it, nobody reports it. But it's interesting, isn't it? It's a good thing we have a third program so we don't cut this out yet, which is what I'm talking about right now. But look, that's probably why it's probably always the right time to make a decision like Patricia, one couple of months or a few days before the elections – since 2009. Isn't that interesting? That's a very interesting thing. And even today's theme: isn't it interesting whether it's dark today? That's not even a topic. The topic is a loan, damn it! Have you seen what the slave owners do? Yeah, that's an interesting story. Today, dark number one is a loan, not this. No, come on, that's not even a topic. Although that loan was publicly published on Ipes on December 26th. Isn't it interesting that the slave owners found him today? Yeah, uh, no, but let's just leave it, now I'm passing. To conclude this. If you are sure, and if you, the President, are sure that nothing is wrong, if you are really sure, then call your Members, vote in favour and the Constitutional Judges will decide. But if you're not sure about this, then you'll do what you've done. This means that you will call on Members to protect you from constitutional judges. Because your decision to prevent a constitutional charge by voting means what? means the gypsum at the feet of the President of the Government that the doctor will not receive it or the Constitutional Court to survive the end of the term of office. Why do you do that if he did everything legally? Why would we do that? I don't understand why we should do this. If anyone understands, just tell me. And now for all those constitutional charges of termination. Ah, look, what about the one from 2007? I'm not sure it was a constitutional charge, but I think it was. Whether the interpretation was against the government or something. But you can imagine!? When that government was far away, far away, far away, farthest away. Why? Because we had 40 days before the presidency and your predecessors – so no one else is here, or anyone else could be, Mr Battelli, but there is no other, right, you see, this is an interesting story – they made the same story. And then finally, the then government, the then Prime Minister said to them, "Look, now is the time, 40 days, make a new government and take power." You know what they did? They voted against it, they didn't hope. They didn't work. They weren't hoping to take power, but they were limping. See, that's what you could say. So, the constitutional charge is a legitimate tool for the opposition. But the question is, are you the opposition that works, or are you the opposition that goes to bat for three grand? We are the opposition that works and we will work to the end. Well, then there'll be new light powers, or whatever, but not you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u16	Mr. Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Mr President, the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I welcome everything very much. I will not start like we used to – what this day brings us, how many words will be spoken, and what benefits these words will have in the future. A very interesting performance by Ambassador Gorenak. It is true that in some way there was an accounting behind this counter; it should probably be more from where we have microphones or from our chairs. But this is not a matter of particular concern to me; I listened attentively, I heard a lot of words that sounded in one way or another. At the outset, I will announce that Members and Members of our Group of the opposition SDS proposal to accuse the President of the Government of Mir Cerar in the Constitutional Court of violation of the Constitution will not be supported. It refers to a lot of succinct arguments, which are more of a party's conviction than legal facts, so it is not possible to say anything about this constitutional charge, especially now that the Administrative Court at the main hearing is not as convincing a statement by SDS Members that the President of the Government has abused the position when he took the stand to hold back the expulsion of Syrian fugitive Ahmad Shamieh After this debacle, the party would expect the constitutional charge to be dropped, but there is something like that for SDS Members who have even announced the imposition of a criminal indictment against Mir Cerar. This is not the first time the SDS has brought constitutional charges against political opponents. In the history of the Slovenian National Assembly, this is the fifth charge. All five have been tabled by SDS Members. Thus, in 1998 Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek was accused of violating the Constitution because he was to conclude a secret security agreement with Israel three years earlier. In early 2010, members of the SDS and the Slovenian People's Party filed a constitutional indictment against the then President of the Republic of Danil Türk for violating the Constitution by granting a state award to the former Head of State Security Tomaž Ertl. Let me remind you, the debate has even shown that some of the documents on which the charge was based have been falsified. Four years ago, members of the SDS announced a constitutional indictment against the then Prime Minister, Alenka Bratušek, to force her resignation due to a delay in introducing a golden fiscal rule, but this matter did not come to light because the coalition had in fact broken down before and, of course, normally, the government of Alenka Bratušek. Let me get back to today's theme of this extraordinary session. As soon as the constitutional charge was published, Prime Minister Cerar claimed that he had not violated the Constitution or the law and that the constitutional charge was totally unfounded. He estimated that this was a new SDS political manoeuvre to discredit and impede the work of the government after ten unsuccessful interpellations, which is not difficult to agree with. The constitutional charge against the President of the Government is based on the claim that he violated as many as four articles of the Constitution. This would violate Article 2, which states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. In contrast to the applicants, prominent lawyers argued that Cerar had not sinned against this article of the Constitution in any way. Former constitutional lawyer Matevž Krivic wrote, for example, that Slovenia has a legal basis in the Dublin regulation that it can at any time decide on Ahmad's application for asylum and does not return him to Croatia. The professor of constitutional law, Sasha Zagorc, is a similar opinion. More importantly, the opinion of the lawyers was later confirmed by the Administrative Court, which approved Syrian fugitive Ahmad Shamieh and his case returned to the Ministry of the Interior for re-decision. Among other things, the Court found that Shamieh's application for asylum had not been rejected at all, since the internal ministry had not issued such a decision, so Shamieh remains in Slovenia until the legal conclusion of the procedure. However, it seems crucial to the Court that the internal ministry mistakenly claimed that the use of the discretion clause was no longer possible because Shami’s procedures in Slovenia were terminated. The Court adds that, on the basis of European case law, the application of a discretionary clause — that is to say, taking over an asylum application — is possible until the time when the applicant is handed over to another country. The Court further ordered the Ministry of the Interior to take into account Shamieh's statements on connection with Slovenia, on participation in Slovenian social, cultural and work life. While the ruling of the Administrative Court is not yet binding, the internal ministry can still appeal to a higher court, which is also a practice when it comes to decisions that are unfavourable to it. So let us leave the decision to the judicial branch of power. The other three articles of the Constitution, which are supposed to be violated by the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr Miro Cerar, are linked to the proposaler's claim that the President violated the second article. It is now clear that it is not available, so the reference to paragraphs 8, 120 and 153 is irrelevant. The first is that our rules must be in line with the generally applicable principles of international law and international treaties. Others speak of the organisation and work of the administration, 153. that the rules must be in accordance with the Constitution. With regard to the whole matter, it is very difficult to shake the impression that it is the opening act of the campaign of the party mentioned above, which will obviously be based on the promotion of fear and hatred against refugees fleeing an area where war and violence have been raging for years. So a campaign in which all funds will be allowed, including a constitutional indictment, which, although conceived in the constitution as a democratic means against possible violations of the Constitution and laws or even the crime of the highest public officials, is unfortunately becoming part of a pre-election campaign. Let me mention that this experiment has encountered negative reactions in the public as well. For example, in Parta of the survey, over 70% of respondents considered that this constitutional charge was already part of the pre-election struggle and the strategy of the largest opposition party. In view of what we have said in our Desus Group, we will not support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u18	Mr President, the President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Much has been heard, and I would not repeat it, even something by the proposer that this migrant was sent back from Austria to Slovenia and Slovenia should also continue to give it to the Croatian authorities to do their job, but this has not happened. He used all legal options in Slovenia to stay in Slovenia. What was said earlier was that he wanted to be that Slovenia was his country; that is not true, then he would not go to Austria. And if all migrants — we know that the stakes were about a thousand, some positive treatments, and even a large number of them were favored and rejected — each year they served all these legal options Probably every Slovenian, if justified, has to take some money; then it is the cost of the country. [[…]] How much work does the court and other authorities have in this regard; it would probably be even more lagging in the courts if everyone were treated like Ahmad Shamieh. That is why I think we should do the same as the Austrians in order to give it to the Croatian authorities, and we would put it behind the Schengen border, which is between Croatia and Slovenia, and this would be resolved. That's not what happened with us. And this intervention by the President of the Government, I think it was unnecessary because the Minister of the Interior made it clear that the procedure had been carried out according to the rules that the legal order was a decision. If everything has not been taken advantage of, all legal options, this is a different matter, but I think that it should also remain so and should be deported back at the time as set out in the Court of Justice. That didn't happen. So, in my opinion, the President of the Government did not violate the Constitution with this, but he was needlessly involved in things that he would probably not have done and left to those who are responsible for bringing things to a close. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we find this constitutional accusation to be excessive, too difficult that it might be more appropriate, even if it is, to interpret, because it is a political act. Therefore, we will not support or oppose this constitutional charge. I would also say that it would probably be much better if, instead of the courts dealing with this migrant for so long, the government had reportedly spent about 6 hours of debate — this is what happened in the media — in this case to deal with other, more necessary things. And an old proverb says that if you deal with every dog that barks at you on your way, you won't get far. Therefore, I think we have a substantial number of cases of those that we should pay more attention to, such as the problem of how many of our Slovenians went abroad last year, why did they go away, what the Government did at that time – not only this one, but also the previous ones – to avoid leaving; 8 000, and how many are born in Slovenia every year? 22,000 children – more than a third of the annual population or birth in Slovenia. How much did the state lose with this? Most of these are highly educated, where the country has invested 100,000 and more euros in education and education, and the country will not have any of these. It's hard if something's probably coming back, but not a lot. [[…]] And if we look at: we have the Schengen border, we have a fence at the border; if we focus more on solving this, because now it has been said that in Europe virtually no one cares about what we have Croats, and here is theme number one. Could it be more wise for the government to go across the border, meet with people to activate not only ours, but also Croatian citizens along the border who now live in peace and co-existence, participate well, many of them go to work daily in Slovenia, even in this southern part? As well as ours to Croatia, some of them are being driven to Zagreb. To solve this problem as we have to, in the end, with an agreement, but probably with the agreement of those who are neighbours who understand each other. First of all, probably at the level of the village community or landowners; even at us or at the border, some leave agriculture, both Slovenians and Croats, take over their farmers' land for processing in Croatia and vice versa. Can they change, or will they leave our land in Croatia, which they bought, and the country will pay to move it to Slovenia? Will a winegrower who has been a winegrower for four times a year come from Krmachina, who also has vineyards on the other side What will now – Croatian grapes, Slovenian wine, Slovenian bees, Croatian honey, or will we separate it? [[…]] We have fences on the border, they're set. I went to visit the entire coast of Kolpa in the whole length of summer, once again more than the Slovenian coast. Do you know how many tourists were in that heat, not just ours, strangers? Now it's no longer an advertising problem and I don't know what the aliens find, the biggest problem is because there's no Internet down there, that's the biggest obstacle. How could I possibly ask myself whether Kolpa is Croatia or Slovenia. [[…]] Whose is it? I only know that the network on the Slovenian side, not in Croatia, not in the middle of Kolpa and it is a major obstacle, even for the development of tourism down there. Some large industries cannot be expected in those places, but we could live with those people even more in co-existence, and they need to be asked, where they need to start building. And perhaps if Croatian fishermen went to Zagreb as well, as we will now, these people of ours and Croatia could soon ask, let us stop deciding about us in Ljubljana and Zagreb, turn to us, we will suggest how this is best handled. We didn't do anything about it. Croatia is, in my opinion, the first economic partner, because the neighbours are, after the third trade, but given that we have most of the borders with Croatia, good cooperation is, in my opinion, the most promising. This should be built on, but not that policy has been using this border since independence as some kind of voter turnkey, both of them. I remembered that story about a lawyer representing one of the pecan owners at the border. 30 years of suing, but it wasn't solved. And then his son went to law school, and when he took over the case, he saved him in three months and said, "You see, Father, you saved 30 years, but I saved in three months." And he said, "You're stupid. This walnut has brought you out, and your son could have done it." And sometimes I feel that both Slovenian and Croatian policies work in a similar way on these Slovenians and Croats who live here in co-existence and in good neighbourly relations alongside Kolpa and our other part of this border. That is why I think it is also a shame that today's debate is about wasting God's time, and that money is here when we discuss it when we can do something more important and useful. I think the Prime Minister made a mistake to intervene in this process. However, not so much so that there should now be a constitutional charge and the Constitutional Court should deal with this case, which is a major one. Thus, in the New Slovenia Group, we will not support this constitutional charge. And I suggest in the future that we do something more constructive.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! The procedure for accusing the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister or the Ministers before the Constitutional Court is one of the key instruments for preventing the possibility of enforcement by people of trusted authority in an illegal manner, contrary to the Constitution and fundamental values on which both our statehood and our statehood are based. The indictment of the Prime Minister, which is addressed to the eighth chapter of the Rules of Procedure on the Work of the National Assembly and which we are dealing with today at the request of a group of opposition Members, is an instrument of such a degree of seriousness that it provides even for the possibility, at the request of this esteemed assembly on the proposal for an indictment by the Prime Minister, to be made clear and delivered by the President of the Republic, the highest political authority in that country. We can therefore assume that the so-called constitutional indictment of the Prime Minister is reserved for the most serious accusation of abuse of power or for the active functioning of the authorities against the sovereignty, independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This instrument would even be obliged to invest both the opposition and the coalition parliamentary groups, on behalf of the people we represent, of course, in the event that the Prime Minister would deliberately renounce the exercise of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia arising from its status as a single and independent state. So if the Prime Minister would allow the sovereign authority in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, contrary to Article 3a of our Constitution, to be exercised by another entity, either a national or a transnational entity. In any event, however, respected colleagues and colleagues are not expected to use the charge of the Prime Minister because the first set-up executive branch has decided to verify and re-evaluate at the highest level of enforceability within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia whether all the funds and tools that the Republic of Slovenia has in its territory — and belong solely to it — have been properly used and used. Such a thing can be controversial and problematic only for those who have not had the autonomy, sovereignty and independence of our country and may not yet have had an intimate and first decision. For all others who cherish their political tradition on the values of liberation and independence, this is, unfortunately, also today's indictment by the Prime Minister of the Government, particularly and a sincere great disappointment. In fact, one of the applicants or co-proposals of the indictment, which took place at the time of this meeting, is said to be the biggest political event of today's day, month, year, year, year, year, rather than calling for an investigative commission to lead it. So it is not the first time that the proposaler himself has sincerely questioned the proposals he is making, but that is certainly not a question for us. Disappointment is not only because, according to the seriousness of the instrument, the prosecution of the President of the Government has been written in an undecently bad, uncompromising and unconscionable manner, but also because, given the seriousness of the instrument, it is true that the most fundamental tools of democratic parliamentaryism will be evaluated until, as they are now, the interpretations and their treatments are understood only as one more meeting and procession, which no one is accompanying and have long since lost all weight and value. And if the proponent doesn't believe me, let him look at his own kind, now, even more like an hour or two ago. By doing what we do today, this assembly itself will see to it that democracy and the Republic, to which the people of Slovenia have joined together in our independence, will be seriously and fundamentally threatened. And because, despite the Government's accusations, it also deserves a brief substantive comment, let me briefly conclude that the hypothesis of the charge that we are considering today stems from a false – either intentional or superficial – understanding of the discretion clause under the Dublin regulation. The latter can thus be used, as confirmed by the Administrative Court in its last judgment, until the time the applicant is handed over to another country, that is, as long as it is located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, where the Republic of Slovenia and its authorities and institutions exercise their sovereign authority based on our independence and sovereignty. By his discretion and his own interest. But is it really the point of today’s debate that we face opinions about how the state cannot, or how it can, exercise power in its territory, how it can legally take decisions after free judgment, while respecting human rights, in short, act humanely? The answer, of course, is no. I'm afraid we're in another pre-election campaign today. It is necessary to look at the calendar of the largest opposition party protecting vulnerable groups against one another at the expense of taxpayers, only in order to enter the pre-election period. Sad, real and, of course, expected. Instead of a conclusion. The policy is to solve people’s problems, individually or collectively, whether it be Branko or Ahmad, in accordance with the laws and decisions of the courts. And as the President of the Republic has said, the decisions of the courts must be respected, including that of the Administrative Court. And as it is, if I paraphrase his emissary, Pope Francis added, we are also obliged to take care of migrants and refugees. Social Democrats will continue to be here for all people, regardless of skin color, religion, race, sex, political conviction or any other personal circumstance. Today's accusations against the President of the Government actually bring the worst light to the one he wrote and the ones he's going to defend. On this occasion, Mr President, congratulations on today's performance. Together with our colleagues, we estimate that there has been one better in the last four years. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. In this mandate, we have had many opportunities to see when and why the entire SDS rises to its feet — when it breaks its hate machine and lies through countless extraordinary meetings, emergency meetings, interpretations and now constitutional accusations. This does so with one goal and one goal — to take power. Well, the Mira Cerar government has already followed this example from the right, with a number of missed priorities. In four years, the government shared tax exemptions with the richest, generously subsidised dirty investments, continued the sale of state property and extended it to critical infrastructures such as the second track and Luka Koper. It will devote more than a billion euros to arms and NATO. It has ensured that Slovenia is closer to a repressive state every day. These were and remain the priorities of this government. If the positive effects of multiannual economic growth are almost entirely borne by the political-economic elite, on the other hand there is no money for the poor and for the working classes. To raise the shamefully low financial social assistance, for example, to raise the lowest pensions, which are not enough for the bare survival, or to raise the minimum wage, which is below the poverty threshold, is never a good time. After three and a half years, 280 thousand people still live below the poverty line. The poor are delinquent, losing their roof over their heads due to some 100 euros in debt, more and more working families are barely coming in a month and falling among poor employees, even though they work 8 hours and more a day. In this mandate, we are also witnessing controversial legislative solutions. Some of them have already been annulled by the Constitutional Court, while others will almost certainly be – from the unconstitutional abolition of non-profit rent subsidies to the anti-constitutional introduction of the police state. But the constitutional charge that we are considering today does not refer to any of the above. The policy led by Miro Cerar, at least in this part, is no different from that of Janez Janša. The constitutional charge relates to a specific case. If we are to be honest, one of the few positive proposals of the President of the Government that he wanted to resolve the status of Ahmad Shamieh, a fugitive who was denied hospitality by Slovenia and wanted to be deported to Croatia in accordance with the anti-refugee policy of the Minister of Home Affairs. The SDS, led by its president after years of looting, armed affairs, privatisation and belt tightening, has lost voter confidence. Therefore, he builds his political profile on an external enemy instead of on prosperity. The elections are close, Janez Janša's desire for pathological authority, and migration is an appropriate issue. Of course, the extreme right to power cannot lead people who know that the catastrophic social picture is largely due to the SDS, so people need to be convinced that their futures have not been stolen by patriots, unexplained property, cousins, unbridled privatisation, the decommissioning of the social state and the continued undermining of the rule of law. They want us to believe that prosperity did not destroy the greed of politics and capital at the head of the SDS, but rather the war-prone poor from the Middle East. We will not support the constitutional indictment in Levika, but I would point out the reasons why we have this debate today. Under the tactics of the Minister of the Interior, the Government surrounded Slovenia in November 2015 with a cutting wire and granted the military police powers. By amending asylum legislation, it has decimated the possibilities for obtaining international protection and the rights of those who would be able to obtain protection. With a novel on the Foreigners Act, she prepared an airtight closure of the border. It has prevented applications for international protection from being lodged. Well, with a package of repressive legislation, it has introduced massive control over all those moving around the country, primarily over its own citizens. Despite the fact that all applicants for international protection are so few that they can easily accept all of them, this protection is obtained only by 10%, and all others are awaiting deportation. Slovenian asylum legislation is written in such a way that the Ministry of the Interior can reject any refugee who crosses our border and in the case of Ahmad, that is exactly how it happened. Slovenia could address his application at any time, but it is not. This has been established by all courts; neither Slovenia nor Europe – the court has decided that Ahmad must be deported, and all courts have decided that although Slovenia is not obliged to deal with requests if it so wishes, it can, on the basis of a discretionary clause, deal with any request. And that is exactly what we should do, and the Prime Minister of the Government, in a mustache of the Ministry of the Interior, should insist that Shamieh remain. Well, instead, Miro Cerar stood in front of the cameras, gave the man hope, then rolled on his heels, and left him nothing to blame in the state that was the Ministry of the Interior. Despite this particular case, the President of the Government has not acted unlawfully to his anti-refugee and anti-social policy. The Administrative Court has annulled the decision of the Ministry of the Interior and has returned the matter to re-judgment, which confirms that the President of the Government is not the one who broke the law; the law, as in many similar cases, has violated the Ministry of the Interior. If so, the constitutional charge – not only the President of the Government, but the whole Government, together with the SMC, SD and Desus – would be due to the anti-constitutional measures they have taken in their anti-refugee and anti-social policies, which are the basis for mass deportations and human rights beatings. The sudden feeling of a fellow human being, which, although rarely seen by the President of the Government, is thus possible to be double-faced and certainly not unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, followed by a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for an indictment. The text shall be given by the proposer, the representative of the proposer of mags. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u24	Your Honor! When we talk about law, we must first really take into account legal concepts. One of those who are taught in the first year of the Faculty of Law, on which Dr Cerar works, is the finality, power and enforceability of administrative matters. For all those who don't know these textbooks, a few words from Wikipedia. “Legal security requires the continuity of the legal relationship resulting from the administrative act issued.” To all of the ruling coalition that you have now laughed at – you have exactly the same sentence in the law school textbook given to your students by Dr. Cerar; if you do not believe, you can ask him, and now I hope you are laughing ahead, your own government president. “In order to achieve such continuity, it is necessary to give an administrative act establishing a legal relationship, such a property which excludes the possibility of its abolition, repeal or amendment.” Are you still laughing, gentlemen? “This is the aim of the Institute of Finality and Legality. The property which binds the administrative act to the fulfilment of the obligation imposed and which at the same time allows the use of coercive means to fulfil that obligation shall be enforceability.” Mr Cerar, I would really like to know how you will be teaching your students the finality, power and enforceability of administrative matters in the light of the conduct of your own government or yourself at the head of this government, in this particular case. This is going to be very interesting to hear, and maybe I hope it comes from some kind of doctorate, because I'd like to read it very much. I think in some respectable legal center, like Oxford or some college like that, we'd be very happy to have a doctorate like that. So, ladies and gentlemen and ruling coalitions, you stopped laughing. Well, let's get to the other stuff. Look, there's been an extremely sharp performance by a fellow SD. Of course why. I just hope, here I really have to say that I'm sorry that Dr Cerar is in this role, because when he listens to the greetings from the United Left and from the SD, he probably has donkey ears growing, because now he understands how badly he fell for one game that he wouldn't need, with his legal knowledge he certainly doesn't. This, of course, was not a game of government as a whole, but a game of SD, which thus after the vampire suckling of the last drop of blood on the left from the SMC, which remained. And Ahmad Shamieh was only in this, of course, a means that no one would think that there was some infinite love for but there is a lot of calculus and human corruption. [[Incomprehensible]] That logic, you know, is really awkward. What the SD does is broken to the end. It is an integral part of the government, but it is always shown as if it is building an alternative, that it is the solution to the problems of this government. No, you are the core, the rotten core of this government, you are an essential part of the problem, ladies and gentlemen of the SD. However, stop being arrogant, and accept the responsibility for what this government is doing, because you are responsible for this in all decisions taken, both of them and of others. Since this logic – which you are selling as we were in power, Mr. Židan has screwed up the karst terrain, and now we will give him even Slovenia to do so – that is about the logic that you are selling to people right now. Just of course, because you have the media in your hands, they pack it up a little better and don't tell you the essence of the story. As a solution to Slovenia, however, you offer even more socialism. Like the United Left, just like all the new ones, the rescuers, like the mainstream media, are offering us. Interestingly, the point at which this can be found is the issue of the defence of the security of Slovenia and the respect for such decisions. In this story – specifically with Ahmad Shamieh – he is the only one in the Government who has responded correctly, Minister of the Interior. This is really a joke if you have a leftist government to end up being the only one in the government who has what the Mexicans call cojones, the Minister of the Interior, if we are specific. And that he also has the proper legal knowledge that he doesn't do universal nonsense, because what you did with the government is bullshit, from a legal point of view. From a human point of view, however, this is unacceptable. Because what have you done with this policy? You have established that illegal migrants – only in the style of this new, forced Islamisation of Europe – are subject to one rule of the game, all Slovenes and Slovenians, and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are subject to another legal rule of the game. This is totally unacceptable, and this is unconstitutional. And also after the people's wages; you referred to ethics. How many times have I heard that word today? And humanitarianism, humanism, aid. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 300,000 people under the poverty line in Slovenia, according to official data. That's official information. Last year, according to official data from NGOs, 30,000 children from Slovenian families who wanted to go to sea stayed home. According to official data, more than 100 families with children were assigned last year, and they were thrown out of their apartment. According to official records, someone died of hypothermia because they couldn't buy enough heating supplies. Has the government met for all of this? Has the government found solutions for these things? It's not! But for one Ahmad Shamieh, he meets. There, however, the procedure is halted at a point which violates directly everything I have asked as a question at the outset: completeness, legitimacy and enforceability. The implementation of the decision has already taken place; enforcement has been under way, ladies and gentlemen, ask the interior minister. How, then, does the President of the Government have the right to get involved in this and publish it because it has been officially announced that he has stopped this story? Because this is no longer just an administrative body, when some of you referred to it, but this is a stunt that is now being carried on as a continuation – it is only in Slovenia possible – but it is also the decisions of the judicial branch of government, even the highest direct one, that is to say, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, based on the judgment of the European Court of Justice, the predecessor, and then in the final stage of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. And it was clear from all these decisions that the Ministry's conduct was justified and proper that it had a legal basis, that it was appropriate, that it was legally correct, that the decision was enforceable. Then someone like the Prime Minister can't just get into this. You know, that's precisely why I read earlier – the finality, power and enforceability of these decisions – so important – because this is the basis of the country's legal security. You can imagine that if the President of the Government had such a right – well, let's play this a little differently – then Ahmad Shamieh would buy a plot in Slovenia, someone would go to build a house, in an administrative procedure would get a legal decision that he could build, and the President of the Government would decide on behalf of humanitarianism that Ahmad Shamieh would throw this shadow on his lot and he would have to tear that house down overnight. Is this a legal state for you? I'm sorry, it's total chaos. This is why it is so important to respect the rule of law when it comes to these issues. As a result, this case is so important that it is based on a constitutional charge. However, the second part of the constitutional charge is the issue of equality before the law. It is totally unacceptable that one game rules for foreigners, for illegal migrants, are applicable to those who have already broken the law, if we are direct, for Slovenians and Slovenians, and for citizens and citizens are governed by other rules of the game, and are more careful that for illegal migrants, there is a mountain of money spent, but for the help of the people needed in Slovenia, for our citizens and citizens, to meet the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to seek an illegal solution, in order to preserve one illegal migrant working black in Slovenia, and not to find solutions for 300,000 people living under the edge of poverty, do not seek solutions for all those pensioners who live with 600 euros in pensions – and do not tell me that this is enough for a person worth living because it is not – but there is no solution for all of those working single mothers with children, who live with 600 euros in pensions – and do not find a solution for the village. He's meeting for Ahmad Shamieh. Ladies and gentlemen, before the law we are all the same and by the constitution, and this must be taken into account and respected. And to the end. There have been so many words here about humanitarianism and humanity and that this is a refugee; some of you are still talking about refugees. Who is the fugitive here, ladies and gentlemen? Is there a threat in the country next door? Anyone who has entered the territory of the Republic of Slovenia has come from a safe country and, of course, under international law is not a refugee. In fact, how much of this story is running away, but only one official statistics of our government – yourself, if you will. Do you have any idea how many of the areas where the war was going on in last year's and the year before last? Illegal passages after that flow, of course, when half a million people were released from the state, and unlawfully so, of course, people should be held accountable, and some of them were then involved in the worst crimes, in terrorism, and all those who made it possible to do so should be held accountable again, but this part is now left behind – if we look at who came after: Kosovo, Turkey, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Algeria, and then Albania, Morocco. From Syria, where there was a war last year, there was hardly anyone. Iraq's even smaller. In Iraq today, people are being redeployed within the country, because peace is and the same has already begun to occur in Syria. Some areas are not quite stable yet, but the vast majority are completely calm. All the forces involved have already declared the end of the war and the victory over Isis. That's what they say. War is gone. Go home if you're refugees. But that's not even the point. This is a project of invasion of radical Islam into Europe, where left-wings hold the stand. There's a problem then, isn't there? And of course, it's behind a lot of big words about humanity and all that. And there's a violation of the law. And that seems completely acceptable to you. It's not acceptable, ladies and gentlemen. That's unacceptable. By all criteria — ethics, morality, politics, constitutionality, the right one, however you turn it — this is totally unacceptable. That's the reason for the constitutional charge on its own. And the only thing I'm gonna say again that this government really did right was to build a fence. What does a fence mean? It's a signal to illegal migrants that they're not wanted to go anywhere else. Its layout enables it not to use any more serious coercive means that would otherwise be necessary in the event of further exacerbation. There'll be tightenings. Why, do you think the Austrians and everyone else are waiting for their border control or are they setting up new and new fences? Because there are elections in Turkey after a good year and it is the assessment of all secret services that Mr Erdoggan will try again to use the word illegal migrants as a weapon against Europe, which he has once done fantastically. He was on this basis because Europe could not answer because Merklov went to him just before the elections, and he said at home: "Look, the Crusaders are already lying before the hands of your Caliph." And he did it fantastically then in the elections; he won much more than all the polls had previously shown him. And why don't you play the game again? Of course, that's not the only reason. Above all, everyone could understand and stop pretending that this is not a war; it is driven by interests, it drives money, it drives money, it drives the money of the left-wing speculative capital Soros, it drives Arab money and, of course, political and personal interests. That's what drives the flow. And until it is properly placed on the edge and protected by Slovenia, this will never end. And that's why this case is important. Of course, there is no way to agree that this is any help. If the aid were real, the aid would be there to establish previously secure areas, to start an economy, to help people live there normally. Once again, the Oxford professor has done an analysis – probably all of you have read it, if you do not have it, I can deliver it to you – by which, for the costs of an illegal migrant who, after the official calculation of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, costs Slovenian taxpayers every month EUR 963 per month, could help where these people come from, especially in Africa, but now also in the east and so on, to hundreds of people – even more, his assessment is over 120 – in order to survive properly. This is said to help literally all those who live there today for what Europe has so madly imported. It's just, of course, it's not about that. It's about other things. And that's why this is a constitutional charge. Ladies and gentlemen, when you offer solutions, and as I said before, remember that everything will have to be done in Slovenia to respect the actual legal order, to ensure security and to protect the Slovenian borders. And the first step you can take today is to make it clear by your vote that there is a need for a constitutional judgment due to an obvious violation of the rule of law, law and constitution in a given case when it comes to the conduct of the Slovenian government. For this is really the case today.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez has the floor. Get Mrs. Ludmila Novak ready. Here you go, Dr. Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I'd like to say a few things myself. First of all, this constitutional charge is totally unfounded. Let's start off with this assumption, which is why I will not carry out some deep thoughts about the whole thing. It is groundless, in particular, in the part where it should prove the subjective guilt of the Prime Minister himself that he has deliberately violated or violated our legal order and then linked it to harmful consequences. Instead, he deals with everything else. And the very opening presentation of the proposaler has in many ways shown that there is no meat here and that everything else and a broader context must be cited in order to justify this act, which is one of the most difficult or, I think, the main weapons that the opposition is supposed to use in the most violent cases. Until now she has always only abused him and this time it is only abuse, that is, abuse of the Institute, abuse of procedure, abuse I also have a personal experience of very similar matters, but that institution was something normal, but an integral part of Parliamentarianism. [[…]] However, the constitutional charge is not self-evident and it is this party that has formed, I will say, this practice, which is comparatively not doing us a very good service in the international space in terms of what things the Institute itself is actually applying to. In many ways, it is also abuse because it sues and judgees what it is, what it is not; it is a classic feature — too fast, too fast again. Before the Administrative Court actually annulled the decision on which they were actually basing the whole so-called intervention on an open procedure — something that would really be judicata — and again misapplied legal concepts. People usually do not understand the difference between the criminal procedure and the administrative procedure, but the difference is essential in terms of when things can be final and when they are not. This abuse is further reflected in a broader policy of spreading fear and at the same time accusing individuals who do not conform to the standards they set themselves — so-called cowardly. Fear always, fear always Even the use of the word “humanity” travels to this and you may not even know it. [[…]] In fact, humanity is the biological basis of man. But upgrading this is a human culture that speaks about humanity, about humanity. That's what we're capable of. We need each other, we know that. But building only on this, on fear, on these simplest matters, which, of course, mobilise people in a certain direction and, of course, also create hatred for everything else, which is the next assumption, which, in many ways, has so far sounded from the debate of the proposalr himself and also speaks of moving some key concepts Two such key concepts, which are today and which are often heard together because of the international situation, are security and human rights. [[...]] But it's a very important sequence of these concepts of how to use them. Order – if you start with security, then human rights somehow hang in the background. But no security makes any sense unless it guarantees human rights. But at least human rights are universal at the declaration level. But when there is a gap between universality at the declaration level and its implementation, which is in the last migration crisis within the European Union, then the truth of where we can actually get to. But security without human rights is meaningless because it is not intended for a fundamental institution on which the rule of law is based. Indeed, the rule of law, internationally, Europeanly and nationally, is based on human rights. Without it, there's nothing. Without that, yes, let them be taken by one group; next time they will take them away from us, we do not know when we will be on our own in the same matter. Inside of this, of course, there are misleading comparisons, I said earlier, these procedures among themselves, then comparing what is not actually comparable. In fact, when in our legal order can the Government intervene in open procedures? Yes, but if it is internationally justified, and in this case discretion is possible in the European legal order, then it is only in some respects that this matter is different. In our cases, if you want to do something like this, you should make a new legal basis, so that you can actually resolve a matter, not use an existing institution, which, in fact, I will say, does not allow such discretion. However, there is always – and this is a fact – but there is always a political debate, I think, both in Parliament and in the Government. And to call for this or to do such a thing, this in itself cannot be a crime in any case, because otherwise we do not have, lose the concept of politics, lose the concept of democratic policy. So it is only necessary to insist on these matters. When I spoke earlier about the difference between security and human rights on the other hand, it happens then, I will say, I will say, interpretations of our Constitution too, because it does not look very precisely at how Article 34 of our Constitution is defined. For he speaks of personal dignity and security, and he connects these two, and he assigns this to all, not just the citizens, all. And here, when we talk about these matters when we talk about dignity, it's the notion of dignity that is the one that justifies human rights and in this context security, that is, the violence that would prevent this basic minimum dignity. We do not talk about this concept when we attach national security to it, we do not know which forms of security, and we are simply under the pretext of protecting in fact narrowing down the space that human rights occupy within a particular political system. So this is the next thing that puts me in third place very quickly, and this is a city of human rights in the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is a fundamental social contract for me. And in this fundamental social contract, human rights have first place. Of course, within these basic social contracts are the rights of foreigners, which are governed by international treaties. There's a difference, there's a difference, and the constitution here makes a difference; it shouldn't be made, but it does. But those in accepted or ratified international treaties that bind us are, in fact, the same as those that bind us under international customary law or other international legal sources. In cases where there is a gap between the constitutional interpretation of human rights on the one hand and, on the other hand, international law, if you want, the one that is better for the one to whom human rights apply will prevail. It applies both to foreigners and to citizens, it applies to everyone. So here this is a place of human rights as some foundation around which this country actually came into being. And, yes, this kind of debate is necessary, but not in this way, not by scaring people, not by encouraging and protecting people against others who are in the same or, in fact, potentially in a significantly worse situation than those whose feelings are actually being abused in this way. Because, as I said before, it's the easiest thing to do through fear. What I would like to add is that, of course, within this constitutional framework, there is a special place in international law and it has been very clear earlier that the acquis of the European Union is our legal order and that it is not treated as other international treaties, but it does have a place or a starting point in this legal order. In fact, as it is still valid and binding, it is also necessary to insist on the Convention on the Status of Refugees in this context. Indeed, this Convention on the Status of Refugees defines this situation very clearly; it is a man who is out of his country and who has been driven out of there by fear. Fear drove him away. Of course, such status must be justified in one way or another, but the convention itself — what does it do? — assigns to this man the human rights that go with this status. The definition of the fugitive is essentially not this status, but the fact that he has fled. Because he had to if he wanted to protect his life. It has to prove that in the process itself. But again, it clearly refers to human rights. The same is true if we go back to European asylum policy. Indeed, the Dublin Regulation, as such, in particular Dublin III, puts respect for human rights in general, the interests of children, the principle of family reunification, access to effective remedies in relation to the decision to surrender to a Member. We're not talking about deportation, this is what we said earlier, that surrender is the institution that actually refers to it. But what is absolutely necessary to know is that it includes this discretionary clause, which is based on a humanitarian basis, also according to the practice of the court itself. And on the basis of all this, we can come to one key conclusion: this discretion clause can be applied in accordance with international law and even after the decision of our Administrative Court, as long as the human being is with us, not only until the proceedings have been completed. And the last; there are no illegal migrants, there are illegal migrations. The use of the language itself in many ways marks or marginalises this group and further criminalizes it, completely unnecessary. And simply coming from these assumptions is already what is problematic in itself. Because of all this, under no circumstances do I know when I could not support such a constitutional charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposed magi asked for the floor. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u28	Thank you. I am very happy when someone uses very loud words, such as personal integrity. Dr. Brglez, the personal integrity of someone who's in office, probably also requires taking responsibility. And when this Parliament, under your leadership, took the mandate of one of the Members in a constitutional, obviously unconstitutional and illegal manner, I have warned you that this is clearly contrary to the decisions already taken by the Slovenian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights and I have also read these judgments. And then you stated that if there were any consequences, you would take responsibility for it. That is, if you're talking about personal integrity, take responsibility and step down now! Then you are justified and you have some integrity to speak about personal integrity, but if that is not the case, this is the worst kind of politics. Now for the second time, you're talking about humanism. See, running away is not just if someone escapes; then everyone who hides from a deceived woman is entitled to asylum status and will receive all the support of this government, according to this logic that you have now developed. It is said that one completely different condition must be met – in fact, his life and personal integrity must be threatened in the country where he comes from. By virtue of international law, you know that for yourself, he has the right to apply for asylum in the first safe country. However, if he decides and goes on, and this is no longer asylum, then that is what has always been called an asylum shopping and has also been prosecuted in European legislation, and then, following an intervention from Berlin with Mrs Merkel, the entire European Union has taken all the right to violate its own legal acts and suddenly its own legal rules, which are binding and applicable at this moment, are no longer implemented and unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also surrendered. If you want to talk about the law and the legal order, then you have to look at it as a whole. And when you talk about human rights and protection; I also talk about human rights and protection, you just have to consider both — those who come and, of course, those who live here. And I will always defend that Slovenia is the home of all citizens and citizens, those who live here. And everyone who has a home has the right to decide. Someone comes to him, not someone who can charge for what they've forced. This is now the logic of the European Union and also of the Slovenian governments, specifically in the case of Ahmad Shamieh; no one has asked anyone anything, that is just so. If you ask people, they'll all say, excuse me, the one who enters illegally must be sent from where he came. Pika. Unless, of course, his life was really at risk, but is Ahmad Shamieh's life in Croatia at risk? Slovenians are paying to go to Croatia, but this is only about being transferred to Croatia at the expense of taxpayers, which would then, in accordance with legal standards, continue to decide his fate, and from this work, an indescribable circus, and I would like to know why, but, by the way, of course, he is still in grave breach of laws. And don't say it wasn't breaking the laws. You said individual guilt; let us see a quote, a press release by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a quote by Dr Cerar, who “... after examining all the legal and other circumstances of this case decided to stop the procedure for returning to Croatia.” Him? Well, wait, come on! This procedure was legally binding, enforceable and final, at that time there was no least doubt about it, led by the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior acted to the end correctly. This has been confirmed by all courts, not only in Slovenia, including the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, but even the European Court of Human Rights. Now there's some side to this, of course, because you can do anything in the legal field with us, but that just points to the wrongness of this country. But that doesn't change that moment and that behavior in anything, legally speaking, and you should know that. You probably know, and now you'd rather chat than listen to it, and that says a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, lovely greetings to all! In this case, we are talking about pressure from the public. I was also called by certain people and lobbyed to support Ahmad Shamieh's stay in Slovenia. For in my first moment, a man felt pity for me, just as I felt sorry for all the others who had to leave their homes because of the war and the horror. And yet, we've made some rules, we've got some laws. I only remember a case that always comes before my eyes, or I call it to mind when we talk about migrants — what happened in Germany? At first we watched a video of a girl from a class visited by Angela Merkel; the girl asked: “Why can’t I stay in Germany?” she cried. And a few days later, pressure on Chancellor Merklova, without compassion, and she said, "Come, you are all welcome." And what happened? What she did not expect — rivers, rivers of people who all wanted to go to Germany. This is when we give in to feelings and do not look at one case in the light of the entire picture or legislation. How many Slovenian people were in trouble, either because of loans in Swiss francs, not to mention cases in health care and children with heart failure, the situation in heart surgery and the like, to pensioners who do not know how to pay the bills and so on. So if we act compassionately and emotionally without taking into account the decisions of the courts, then a disaster can soon occur that brings a lot of things behind us. Earlier, lawyers – both Grims and the President of Parliament, Mr Brglez – and the President of the Government, who is also a lawyer – spoke, so I will not go into legal dilemmas, because obviously all lawyers are not united, whether the President of the Government has acted unconstitutionally or has made only a mistake or I don't know what; nor can I resolve this dilemma. However, I can tell the President of the Government something else – but it was clear that the Constitutional Court's decision ordering the State to finance the publicly applicable programmes in private schools had not yet been implemented after three years. And the Prime Minister of the Government committed himself to fulfilling it and failed. But here I was wondering whether it was because of a coalition problem or in my own client or why. If I were him, I'd be in charge, and I'd say we have to fill that out and do it, even for the cost of the coalition's collapse. And then we come into such a imbalance; on the one hand, we say that the decisions of the courts have to be respected, implemented, on the other hand we do not meet them ourselves, and on the other hand, we expect them to be fulfilled by the other country and that the whole European public will help us. We come to the intersection with ourselves. So it is at least here that I could say that I am critical of you, Mr President of the Government, that you have failed to comply with the constitutional decision or that you are not consistent in these efforts. Of course, Slovenian citizens also wonder whether we are all the same before the law. And at the very moment when Ahmad Shamieh was in the SD Group – their premises are right next to our parliamentary group – there was a citizen at my house who said, “But no one took such a stand for me when I was wronged?” and he also explained to me what kind of injustice. Of course, people then compare how much injustice they experience, but they do not have as many public figures to support them. If injustice happens to anyone, we have to stand up for everyone. But if someone is working against the law and we can't protect him, because it doesn't belong to him as much as he wants, and we can't do it; at least the President of the Government, who is also a lawyer, can do it. What am I afraid of? So, I will say that I expected more decisive action in introducing changes in Slovenia, both in the field of health, where there have been tragic cases, but there has been no decisive action now, but I must say that I am also concerned about all these sentences, not because I would think that people have too much pay – certainly not – but also because of too little attention to do more rationalisation where it is needed in the public administration; we hear about a few thousand new jobs, and this increases the total amount of wages. [[...]] And when we meet one of the sentence requirements, we know that it triggers the creeps forward so that others will come. And since we're a year ahead of the election, there can be more than enough of these election candy. And what can happen to us? We have a fiscal rule that we have written down in the constitution, and if this beach goes forward, but it can really happen to us that instead of saving money for those times in good times with high economic growth, and even for the payment of credits, because now we are hiring new loans, we will once again increase this mass of wages in the public sector. On the other hand, the economy that requires better conditions does not face lower taxes. Today I will not support this constitutional charge, I will abstain; not because I would think that the President of the Government is doing without mistakes, I have just listed what I am reading to him, but because I think that the constitutional charge is something so severe and so great that the President of the Government should leave immediately. In this case, I'm going to say that it's more of a criticism of dilettracy or of actions that I wouldn't have attributed to a lawyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar. Here you go, Mrs. Eva.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the President of the Government! On the basis of Article 119 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we have brought a constitutional charge against you as Prime Minister of the Republic because we believe that you have violated the Constitution and legislation in the performance of your duties. The case of Syrian migrant Ahmad Shamieh is quite clear and legally binding, as also decided by the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. The decision of the Ministry of the Interior was final and, as explained after all of this happened — about two months ago — under this case of Mr Ahmad Shamieh, also Minister of the Interior, it follows from this decision that Ahmad Shamieh must be deported immediately to Croatia, because he must go to the first country to which he entered the European Union earlier. What is essential in all this is this – and this is not said by the President of the Government, and the President of the National Assembly has not said, but it is only right to say out loud to citizens and citizens –: Ahmad Shamieh or any other migrant who has come to this country and should return to Croatia or be deported in Croatia once there can ask for international assistance. And when he asks Oziro for international protection. [[…]] And when he asks for international protection and it is given to him, then such a migrant can come and return completely freely to Slovenia, and so could Ahmad Shamieh. But, Prime Minister, you have abused your position. You perform the third highest – by protocol – function in this country. The first is the President of the State, the second is the President of the National Assembly, and then it is you who are primarily responsible for the welfare of the Slovenians and the Slovenians. That's what you swore before this national convention. But you intervened in a case that was legally binding. And because of your concrete intervention, this decision has not been enforced, which is why we believe you have committed a crime. That is why we have brought a constitutional charge against you in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. The first response to this constitutional accusation you made as Prime Minister of the Government was as follows: “It is clearly a new political manoeuvre by Janez Janša and his SDS party.” I must tell you directly, Mr President, this is not about any political manoeuvre, either by Janez Janša or by the SDS party, but it is about respect for the rule of law. Once again – you, as Prime Minister of the Government, have committed yourself to this oath before the National Assembly. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have not brought constitutional charges for political manoeuvres, but for non-compliance with the law, for violation of the Constitution and legislation and for overriding the powers of the President of the Government. It was you and no one else. You, in particular. You intervened in a legal decision. That this decision is clear and legal, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the European Court once again said. But let's say we assume that in this case it is true and that it is a political manoeuvre. Dear Prime Minister, I wonder if in this case the political manoeuvre is also the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia? Is the political manoeuvre the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia? Is political manoeuvre the decision of the European Court of Justice? Last but not least, is the political manoeuvre your Home Secretary's manoeuvre? I'd like you to answer these questions. It is certainly a matter of very double criteria, as well as unfair treatment, if you want, even in relation to other migrants. And here I have quite a few questions that relate in particular to the question of justice – much has already been said about it today, but also to the questions of false humanism. Of course, these answers are of great interest to me, Mr President-in-Office. Citizens and citizens accompanying this meeting are also interested, in particular those living below the poverty line and far from being taken care of as well as a purely defined economic migrant. And certainly in all these subjects, which speak of such sensitive issues, it is also a question of humanity. Undoubtedly. What, though, would we be like if we did not ask ourselves in that sense, in terms of humanity, what does this mean for an individual? But, Mr President, it is also a matter of respect for the rule of law that we have committed ourselves to as a country when we have established our country. We wanted human rights and fundamental freedoms to be respected. We have come out of a system that has seriously violated them and we need to be more careful when we ask about them, about their protection, about the protection of the human rights mechanism and fundamental freedoms. But, as has already been said, the legal question or respect for the law is also important. Now I wonder why you haven't done the same in the case of a Syrian family with a small child, Mr. President. Why did you not intervene, intervene in the process, and reach a possible decision like that of Ahmad Shamieh? In this case, why was not the general public involved in the case of the Syrian family with a small child, as was the case with Ahmad Shamieh? Why, Mr Kordish, why did Mr Škoberne and Mr Brglez not also advocate a Syrian family with a small child? I know that he will then replicate to me Mr Škoberne that why we did not point to this, but this is not the right question, Mr Škoberne. The correct question is that both in one case and in another, we have to do the same – do as the legal order of this country determines. Of course, it is necessary to help all those who somehow fled the war, especially those with young children, and to enable them to carry out certain legal procedures that are linked to their situation as quickly as possible. I wonder if it may not have been the same treatment in the case of a Syrian family with a small child because it was a Christian family. I'm just guessing you'll answer me. But the double criteria, as was the case in this case, are still very much used under this government and this government coalition in all areas. You have double criteria for hate speech, double criteria for totalitarian convictions, double criteria for health care and, if I say so, certain problems that health care has, double criteria for Slovenian citizens and, on the other hand, migrants; equality before the law, double criteria. Once again, honourable Prime Minister of the Government, when you swore your oath as Prime Minister of the Government, you said that you would respect the constitutional order and that you would work for the well-being of Slovenia. Unfortunately, you are doing the opposite. If you'll excuse me, at the end of my humble opinion. In Slovenian history, you will certainly sign up as the worst President of the Government, whose greatest or one of the greatest achievements, you yourself said before, is the introduction of water into the constitution. I really agree, more guided achievements. I ask you to answer my questions clearly raised, not at 8 p.m., but in the course of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mrs. Lefty.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Mr President, distinguished ministers and members of the Government and colleagues, welcome! The proposal for a constitutional indictment by the President of the Government is entirely unfounded. The President, with the promise of refugee Shamieh, will endeavour to abstain from the decision to return to Croatia immediately, in order to examine all legal options, has certainly not violated the Constitution or the laws. With this promise, the Prime Minister of the Government has proved his humanity, his solidarity with the people in distress, as is the case with the fugitive Shamieh. Therefore, his proposal to the Government to grant a temporary stay in Slovenia under Article 51 of the Foreigners Act does not in any way hold back the charge of the SDS that he has violated the Constitution and the law and should therefore be resolved from the position of Prime Minister of the Government. In general, the Government's proposal to grant a temporary residence permit was not accepted by the Presidents; not because of Desus' ministers, it was also opposed by his party's ministers and probably by the majority, as this proposal could have been adopted, as it was adopted without Ministers Desus' proposal to raise some of the highest wages in the public sector, which we opposed in Desus. However, I am sure that in the SDS, they were prepared to hold back their proposal for the discharge of the President of the Government because of this humanitarian move, and that they have submitted it as a political manoeuvre, with which they will be able to defile this government in a long and porous manner, and, worse still, I think, that they will have another chance to sow hatred against refugees and fear of foreigners among our citizens, pointing to refugees as if they were devouring money that could be directed at our socially weak citizens, which they have already done many times, especially Mr Grims, which is, of course, a great deception and a lie. The fact is that refugees and asylum-seekers do not give our socially disadvantaged citizens a cent less than the law and other regulations we have in this country. At the end of this brief debate, let me just say that whoever respects the Constitution and the laws of this country will not support this SDS proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u35	Thank you very much. He asked the Mag for a word. Branko Grimes. Here you go, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u36	Thank you. I don't want this to come as a shock in the ruling coalition — good for everyone to sit down — but, you know, money doesn't come out of the air. The taxpayers' money is created so that in Slovenia we have a successful economy, good entrepreneurs, people who work hard and these people earn money and then the country collects taxes. And he collects taxes on trade, on services, on all of it. That's what you say, the money you're taking, you're robbing it by first reaching into someone's pocket and pulling it out; it's not your money, it's not money that fell off the ceiling, it's money that you took from Slovenian taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. And this quantity is, of course, limited, even if you are transferring the payment to the next generation by hiring new and new crazy loans. That's because they're limited, which means if you take one, you run out for the other. All funds after the constitution are in the budget, ma'am, and this budget has a certain number, and if you, like last year, spend 123 million on illegal migrants, that means that you took 123 million children in education, in health care, in retirement and so on and so on; you took it away from other people, otherwise it can't be. That is why I said earlier that if the normal government were normal, I would expect it to provide first with problems, social problems, to help those citizens and citizens who need help, and these are huge; in Slovenia we have 10,000 pensioners living with the lowest possible pension, while we have the president of one pensioner who has promised two terms after a thousand Euros of pension to everyone. In Slovenia we have 10,000 children who can't even go to sea, in Slovenia we have 10,000 people who can't take care of themselves with their own work because of objective circumstances. And for those who are running out of money and not telling me that one part of that money is that the European Union – or does the European Union fall off the ceiling, ma'am? Don't let this be a shock to you – the money of the European Union is our money again. How's it going? We are paying one piece of money into the European Union and we get it around the bend back, our own money. Again, this is the money that you first took from Slovenian taxpayers and you are responsible for using it rationally and to the best of your ability in accordance with the values of this country. And don't tell me that it's in line with the values of this country, with the fundamental values that this country has created to take the money of Slovenian taxpayers and hand over thousands of euros every month to every illegal migrant, while Slovenian workers work for 700 euros, while Slovenian pensioners spend 600 euros a month. This is not a moral policy, it is not an ethical policy, I say that it is an obviously anti-constitutional policy and is an unacceptable policy, so in the SDS we said that we will protect Slovenia and the Slovenian borders.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dusan Verbich, get ready for Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go, mag. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Vice-President, distinguished Prime Minister, members of the Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, very nice greeting! From the initial presentation of the motioner as well as the opposition Members who presented their position, I have simply understood and made one such conclusion that today's constitutional accusation by the President of the Government, if I may say so, is the parliamentary barbecue of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia – given that, in addition to the content of the constitutional charge transmitted by the motioner, there has been a huge opening today to those who are not at all the subject of this constitutional indictment. I consider the Institute of Constitutional Accusation of the President of the Government to be one of the most important elements of constitutional law, in particular because it interferes with the executive branch of the institution. It is therefore important what this substantive proposal is. And if I look subjectively, I can say that the proposal by the proposal by the proposer is highly liberal and I am joining all those debaters who have indicated in their debate that this proposal is primarily the pre-election activity of the SDS Group. Here I immediately wonder whether this constitutional charge is substantively justified or justified. I am firmly in the position that it is not, so we cannot discuss unconstitutionality or violation of the law. It is also true that a person can ask about the applicant's attitude as to the content of this constitutional charge; whether he wants to discuss professionality in this debate – here, in particular, I have in mind the distinction between unconstitutionality and illegality and what it means. This means that the Constitutional Court in a particular case should directly subsume the disputed position under a specific constitutional standard. The moment such debates are opened, constitutional theories simply need to be touched. It is not intended to discuss this, but I would like to conclude the following. I am very pleased that the constitutional theory as well as practice are uniform in the following: even if we are talking about illegality – but in this case, as I have already mentioned, we are not talking about illegality, but when we are talking about illegality – it does not necessarily mean that a decision is unconstitutional or unconstitutional. A few more words about the role of Prime Minister. We all know that the Prime Minister of the Government is the first Minister of State in simple language. He is also the Prime Minister of the Government, also in a simple expression the first, most important and highest official of the state. However, we all know very well that in all the procedural procedures under way and in which decisions are taken before the authorities of the state administration, the so-called procedural rules apply and one of the umbrellas is the General Administrative Procedure Act. And even if I apply this case, this law also applies to the first civil servant; I speak in a good sense. The General Administrative Procedure Act is also known by the Institute, which we know very well, namely the supervisory right. And when there is a speech on the content of this constitutional charge, it is primarily the deliberate statement made by the Prime Minister of the Government concerning the Syrian citizen. And in the context of supervisory justice, the principle of justice – and here I would add another word that is extremely strong also substantively – I consider that the then statement by the President of the Government was admissible. And another issue in which we touch on the Administrative Procedure Act; it also knows a very clear provision, namely the extremely repealing of the Administrative Decision. So much for illegality. What I mentioned in the introduction, I'm done. The fact is that even if we were to talk about illegality, not every illegality also meant unconstitutionality. And given that the content proposal is not justified in this context, I can now point out that I oppose the content of such a constitutional charge and will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, representative of the candidates, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u40	This is a very entertaining topic on the validity and expertise of this proposal today. Do you know what the best, chronic evidence is that it's still well-founded and highly professional? Let's take a look at the media coverage today. Now you can look at the internet and the reports, and you will see that what we are saying here today – even though it is a question of the legality, constitutionality and functioning of this country, equality before the law of our citizens and citizens, including those who have such or other problems – is not in the media at all today. In the media, there is only one non-profit loan that was published 14 days ago, which was concluded by a notary who is then responsible for the legality of this, but this is the only topic. [[advertising from the hall]] Right after 14 days, on today's exact day. You don't need that kind of media spin. That means you've got a bad fucking conscience. Of course, this also proves how much you have under the authority of the media or in the hands of the media cartel. But if this constitutional charge were unfounded, unfair, unprofessional, then this would be unnecessary, the media would now tear it up, make a fool of themselves, publish statements by constitutional lawyers, how poorly this is unfounded, and how well the Prime Minister of the Government did when he stopped Mr Ahmad Shamieh's transfer to Croatia. But that's not it. It's a media spin, so the truth doesn't come in a day. This is the best chronic confirmation – for the first time that the President of the Government has violated the law and the constitution, for the second time that the constitutional charge is justified and for the third time that you have the devil's bad conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go, Dr. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u42	Thank you very much, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! I believe that the proposal for a constitutional indictment is unfounded; the arguments in this proposal, Mr President of the Government, have been torn apart in your response to this proposal by all legal arguments, as you know and know as a recognised legal expert. What was the purpose, and what is the purpose of this proposal? This is what most of us agree on here today – it is a smoke screen to create some impression that something is wrong now and also the goal of someone coming to power to create the impression that something is wrong in the country. Of course we can agree that this proposal – and I will explain why it is not properly written, to put it mildly, but the constitutional charge is still an important act. [[…]] This is an act by which we accuse the President of the Government, and by doing so, we obviously want to cause – those who file this – political instability in the country. And that is the purpose of this proposal. In addition, the second red thread to be drawn is – and this was reflected in the words of the proposer, the representative of the proposer – to promote fear, fear of migrants, fear of others, fear of strangers. This is the purpose of this proposal. I just want to start with one quote, and it's from one movie, but it's still kind of real; you're going to figure out which one it is, and I'm going to read it: "Fear leads to anger, anger leads to hatred, and hatred always causes suffering." And I would just like to put this on your heart so that we can all think together about when and for what purpose we will cause fear here, from this place in Parliament, as political officials. Now, what is the proposal that we have here before us? I don't know if it was composed of a colleague of Gorenak, who is a professor, or who composed it. I don't know if Comrade Gorenak is, then – as he told the Prime Minister – if students are listening to him now, let the students from Professor Gorenak look at what the proposal is. And I'll tell you why. Perhaps, as the proposalr's representative said, the source of Wikipedia for legal arguments. That's kind of what we could conclude. Why? I'll tell you why. There's a whole bunch of inconsistencies, irregularities, unreasonableness, and I'm going to go slowly now, and I'm going to explain why I think so. For example, you refer to the judgment of the European Court of Justice, the second time the Court of Justice of the European Community and the third time the Court of Justice of the European Union. Which court is right now? We don't know. The Court of Justice of the European Union must have thought which is part of the institutions of the European Union. You have all three listed. Secondly, a violation of an international treaty is evident in the proposal to the Prime Minister. What international treaties? You are stating that he violated the so-called Dublin III Regulation, we have a number inside. But this is a regulation, and the President of the Government has said it, and I will repeat it again: this is a regulation that is implemented directly. On the basis of the legal order of the European Union, we are obliged to implement it directly as a country. This is the law, like the law, in the slogans published in the Official Journal of the European Union and we must not change it; we are directly implementing it, we must directly implement it, and it has primacy over our legislation. Therefore, if our legislation is not in accordance with the Regulation, the Regulation is in force and we can only adopt implementing rules. I won't go into the details. But then, I don't know, tell me which international treaty was violated by the President of the Government and it was supposed to be an apparent violation of the Constitution. Well, then, let's move on. It is clear to him, Prime Minister of the Government, that he has prevented a lawfully issued deportation decision. No, there was no deportation decision, and the President of the Government told you, he didn't. Why? Since it was again the so-called Dublin III Regulation, which lays down the rules of which State is responsible for examining the asylum application. This implies that if the State finds that it is not competent to deal with an application for international protection, it shall hand over the asylum applicant to the country where he first applied for asylum. That's it, there was no deportation and then the Prime Minister of the Government couldn't stop it. Then there's the lie again, the lie in the proposal number, how many asylum applications have been rejected. There are some numbers that are wrong if I look at them, and then they're false. If we look only at 2017; by the end of this year a thousand 188 applications for international protection had been submitted, the procedure had been halted in 750 cases, and 316 applications had been rejected. In 137 proceedings, applicants were granted international protection status and 79 applications were rejected. So, 79 rejected and 137 approved. Therefore, I say that the proposal is simply full of inconsistencies, irregularities and, as such, we can at all, it is not capable of one serious treatment. Therefore, the proposal of Comrade Gorenak does not help us to vote in favour now and then the Constitutional Court will determine. It is obviously unfounded, obviously unfounded and full of disagreements, irregularities and thank you very much, and I cannot vote for such a proposal to be justified. Who refers to court decisions? I don't know which court. You say what you think now, the European Court – this does not exist at all. Did you mean the European Court of Human Rights? No, no, no. You wrote, see the proposal, the European Court of Justice. Well, look, in his proposal, it says in there - the European Court of Justice. We have the European Court of Human Rights and we have the Court of Justice of the European Union. These two courts are international, so that the ECHR does not fall within the structure [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please, may I say now, colleague Bah Žibert? [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u43	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u44	I don't call it wrong, you can look at your proposal, where all three are listed as I said. So, and you see, the proposal is clear to the President of the Government that he does not respect judicial decisions; he has already justified that these allegations are not justified. Who's reading that? A proposaler who did not wish to respect either the Constitutional Court's decision or the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, that is, in Strasbourg, as regards deleted. Those who stand and protest there in court and protest and protest against the work of the courts – in this proposal these same people then report to the Prime Minister that he has done something illegal. So you don't have credibility. In addition to giving you some reasons why your proposal is unfounded. Next. Why do I think there is no way we can be in favour of this proposal? In the proposal, you refer to the incredibly easy-to-turn terminology. It is clear to the President of the Government that he has provided a material or even intangible benefit to the asylum-seekers, i.e. to the applicant for international protection, and that the applicant for international protection is entitled under law under the international treaties to which you so refer that the President of the Government should respect them. Tell me, can anyone explain to me what this impeccable benefit this asylum seeker has now gained? We'll say something then about the numbers and the strong money that this asylum seeker got, but tell me, if you already have written in the proposal – what is the intangible benefit? I don't know, but did he become a media star or something? I don't know, you mentioned it, and you'd be expected to substantiate what an asset is. What's the matter? [[…]] While we are, as colleague Brglez explained, Slovenia has ratified the International Convention on the Status of Refugees, which is based on standards developed after World War II; we have committed ourselves to respect fundamental human rights, which is also in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights – the right to asylum. But in this proposal of yours, it's kind of a perfidious logic that if we now provide asylum seekers with some kind of protection, it's a wealth benefit and even an asset. I don't know what you mean by that, but it's kind of like a crime. You did not explicitly say that, but on the basis of what you read to the President of the Government, it can be concluded that now those who ask for international protection are illegally benefiting. So... [[…]] Of course, it is not wrong and, of course, we are committed to enforcing international protection under the international treaties that bind us. If you wish, the pope himself invited us to do so, who spoke last in his Ambassador Urba et Orbi about migrants, not refugees. I don't know who the supreme authority is in the religious field for whom, but this gentleman also warned us. And what is it now, given that the source of this accusation is somehow, as we have seen, to give some impression that we now have an infinite number of these migrants, asylum seekers, refugees who are now burdening our budget and who are even benefiting from some illegal benefit, wealth and non-profit? Let's see what the actual data is about what's real. Respectable colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens who are watching this! The recognized status of international protection – that is to say the one with the refugee status that is entitled to it – is in Slovenia from 1995 to 31. 12. 2017, so in more than 20 years, 500,547 people were received. In 20 years, in 20 years recognized refugee status, which then has all the rights that follow it also under the International Protection Act. Asylum seekers – these are those who do not have recognized status such as Ahmad – and these were on the 31st day. 1. 2018 214. So, say and write, if we add up, 800 such people in Slovenia. And when we talk about this data, we just have to give real data and tell people how many of these people are actually in our territory, then we'll also say something about costs. But what bothers me most in this case is this accusation and I wonder what it's based on. What's it based on? What did you focus on, what did you focus on in this accusation? Basically based on the case of one man in distress, one man. It's a man, yeah. You'll say he's a stranger, but he's human. Many times I myself have tried to help others, anyone. But here it is important that this proposal is based on the case of one man alone and now the entire charge is based on this case of one man who needs protection. Whether it is justified or whether we will decide here will still be decided in the process, but if we had already filed a constitutional indictment and thought seriously, we could have done much better. So, if I conclude, I believe that the proposal for a constitutional indictment is unfounded and, of course, I will not support it in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u45	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Let's get ready. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, first of all, the proponent. The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. At least from someone who did the work of a judge, I would really expect him to know things before he talks about them. If Mrs Murgel had known a story that had dragged on for many years in connection with the so-called deleted, she would have known that I had also coordinated twice, even with other parties, a proposal of a constitutional law, in order for these things to be settled, that is to say that it would have actually been corrected if anything had been done wrong to anyone, but that everything would have been dealt with individually. Once we have reached an agreement with some of the SD, then by Anderlič or LDS; you can check all this out, Mrs Murgel, and therefore do not speak flatly about who was against what. What is today, however, is a parody of the rule of law, because the European Court of Justice has said the matter is being dragged on too long. It's just that now you all do something flat and on average. [[…]] However, it would be necessary to ask again all those who said there would be no compensation and I do not know why the state of Slovenia had already committed 20 million and some more money for compensation at this point. It could have been done in a similar way before, but it would have been better for those who would have been actually justified earlier, but of course those — and for that I have always been — would have been excluded from having ever participated in an attack on the state of Slovenia. And this was indeed the case, and individual treatment was also justified, which is also the only one in line with modern law. And if you speak flatly, Mrs. Murgel, do great injustice. As a judge, that's inappropriate. We should be aware of that. I'm just wondering – with so many assumptions on which you're justifying your debate – how will you judge if you ever go back to court again from here. That's definitely not gonna be good.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u47	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u48	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues and distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! The whole story is the product of the unorganized operation of the ruling coalition and government. If the government had reacted and acted in a timely manner in this case, the story of Ahmad would not have happened at all or people would have never known about it. The Prime Minister of the Government and the Government had this opportunity to do so with discretion during the summer months, and then, if Ahmad is so important, there is no one – neither the President of the Government nor anyone else – brought these ideas forward. Then it seemed like those November days, as if the President of the Government were on a trampoline and jumping from a statement to a statement, from a statement to a statement and then jumping out of a statement by a minister into a statement and speaking against one another contradictoryly, and no one knows what's right. And there really seemed to be total agony about this poor man, because the government is unorganized because it doesn't know who's drinking or who's paying. And it seemed more like the work of the President of the Government was based on some inspiration or so – I met him last and he told me what to say and then I accepted that position. But in one week, you changed your mind three times about this poor Ahmad. Does this man not dare you to talk about him as a potato frog? Please, but that's what the whole story looked like in November. Article 51 of the Aliens Act was first applied. That's what the Prime Minister first quoted at the press conference. Then the opinion changed. There is a third opinion again today. Come on, we're dealing with the country, let's be really serious in this case! In the entire story, the well-respected President of the Government and also the candidates for the constitutional charge, however, is to determine whether the President of the Government, with his last opinion at that press conference, was the last one around Ahmad, whether the President of the Government, with his opinion and, I quote, made a phone call to the Ministry of the Interior, unlawfully or whether he prevented Ahmad's surrender to Croatia. It's one dilemma. It is not necessary that this surrender to Croatia of this Mr Ahmad is not yet made, for example, after a six-month period. What if we decide today that the President of the Government has done so and that we give this to the Constitutional Court, and then the surrender of Ahmad will happen to the next day? So this impeachment in this case may be excessive or disproportionate, because we do not yet know what the outcome of the whole event will be. The time for this surrender or the execution of the decision of the courts is still in progress, the procedure is still pending. However, the President of the Government, if he has already done so, has, in my laziness, acted completely unwisely. For the first time because of the initial adjustments he made from day to day, and for the second time, because he stood up as the one who was decided not on the basis of the decision of the courts, but on the basis of that, I acted for humanitarian reasons. Nice, Prime Minister, to do so, but then let's be here proportionate and act in all cases like this. I did not hear you say that you would have been humane in the hundreds of other surrenders to Croatia that have taken place. And I agree with you, the word deportation is also a very hard term in this case, but in other cases don't answer. What happened? If this Ahmad had not been part of this social circle with which he is associated – around the social center of Rog etc. – and if this media pressure hadn't arisen, then you wouldn't have remembered it either, I'm sure. All the ties around how to bypass the decisions of the courts and that this man was driven up and down Parliament — and I myself have dealt with him — are completely unwise. It is not wise to act for the rule of law because rules and clear legislation are in force. And we cannot respond or act, so I acted for humanitarian reasons, trampling the will of, say, the courts. The possibility of discretion was in the summer months. Yes, but even if you do – and once again I stress that it is nice that you have acted humanly – or that you want to do so, you must be here to all the same and follow the element of righteousness to, for the first time, migrants or refugees, and for the second time, to those other people in this country who deserve your attention. For example, now that we have arbitration, well, I don't know, somewhere through the same partial numbers, it's going to go across a new border or through the same houses. Or a case of low pensions, a case of low wages; even these people deserve your attention and charity. And the key is, Prime Minister, what is your criterion for paying attention to individuals – this one is big, this one is low, but what kind. You have been extremely attentive to Ahmad; nothing is wrong, but do you know how many people want your attention? You yourself said: “In Austria it was not accepted because it does not meet the conditions.” What signal do we give when in certain proceedings, even before the European Court of Justice in such cases, together with Austria, we give what signal? And what criteria do we have for this case, for example, when you first talked about Article 51; the residence permit is granted to someone, says Article 51, which is a scientist, professor, researcher, doctor and that there is an interest of Slovenia in this. [[…]] I understand your criteria, this last part – Slovenia's interest in this – but the President of the Government, such people, could then be taken to Slovenia very much. But we give the wrong signals, even when we deal with Austria in front of European authorities, and we can get bad examples in the future when Austria is putting people at our disposal. Ahmad would have already gone to Croatia if he did not have a specific social environment in Slovenia, which in this case also protected him from the country, here I can hesitate. However, I think it would be right for Ahmad to go to Croatia. That sounds very hard, but if we respect the rule of law, we can't do anything else right now, and the President of the Government can be so generous to anyone. But there can be new procedures there, and this would be a contribution to this country and to respect the rules and also to us. But we can't change the rules of the game and adapt them to an individual, we can't, it's the same as losing ourselves at football games, deciding to change the rules of the game. It just doesn't work that way with the state. And now for the constitutional charge. Whether the President of the Government, once again I am asking this question, has really affected the fact that this surrender to Croatia is not going to happen, we will be able to see that, as this process is still going on. I don't know the exact date, but somewhere by the end of February Ahmad may be sold to Croatia. And what's the second reason that I'm going to vote today that I won't define myself to be abstinence is a disproportionate measure. Against the President of the Government, or against the whole Government, we could interpellate, we could have another instrument, and we could have such a serious story as a constitutional accusation; we could also ask the President of the Government this question, more than once, you can put it on several occasions. In America, in the United States, Impeachment was used only twice, only twice. And the constitutional charge is an instrument that we cannot use for daily political events or because we do not know today whether the President of the Government, by his phone call to the MNZ, exceeded his powers and acted unlawfully. I'm not sure if this deportation -- or I'm sorry, surrender -- will happen tomorrow. Perhaps the President of the Government did not influence it, but if he did influence it, something was very wrong and he acted completely unwisely; the President of the Government must not influence it. If I finish. At a time when something really goes wrong in this country and when the President of the Government and the others do something seriously wrong, then let us use the constitutional charges. President of the Government, for you by the end of your term of office, one request for people: let the country lead, let the government lead, but not everyone who has five minutes of time jumps like a trampoline, and then you respond on the basis of inspiration, and on the basis of what's right and wrong, which is wise and which is not wise. You have to make a decision, just like the law says, but not the last one on the street is lucky, he says something to you, and we go with this position in front of the camera, and in three hours a new position. In this case, the shortest was drawn by this poor man, Ahmad. In another case, the country will be able to draw the shortest. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u49	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Prepare Mrs Janja Slug and Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. You know, today is not about the story of an illegal migrant named Shamieh. Today it is much more; it is whether we respect the rule of law or respect the laws, respect decisions, legal and definitive and respect the constitutional order of this country. And that is exactly what we are reading in this proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar. The deportation of Ahmad Shamieh was based on the decision of the Migration Office of the Ministry of the Interior. The decision was confirmed by the Slovenian ordinary courts, on the basis of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Community – if we, colleague Jasna Murgel, are accurate; it is said, the European Community, not the Union, and by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and it has become final and legal. That's what this is about. And that was violated by the President of the Government when he intervened in the final decisions. It was just before or in the process of realization. And now that I've listened to the Prime Minister of the Government, who's been discussing the fact that he's acted in a manly manner, forgive me, President of the Government, are we therefore those who respect the Constitution and the laws that are inhumane? [[…]] Perhaps your Minister of the Interior is inhumane? I don't think so. I believe that, like all of us, virtually every story that can have very tragic preconceived elements and consequences is touching. But you know, today I'm listening here as if we were the ones who decided to deport Mr. Shamieh. No, it was your secretary's decision, Your Honor. And what the Prime Minister has done is your Prime Minister. What dark forces are we hearing about here? Is the Minister of the Interior your dark force? Once again, the Prime Minister of the Government also said that he had decided to do so because Mr Ahmad not only joined our society but also made a useful contribution. President of the government, I'd really appreciate it if you could tell me what kind of useful contributions this is. On the other hand, there is the Korba-Sulaiman family story, which was born here with children and, in fact, transmitted the disease with the mother, and unfortunately, he inherited it himself. But this family was also deported, in accordance with legislation and all procedures. Did you feel the humanity at the time? Some of you say that the Prime Minister of the Government has done absolutely nothing illegal, that he has not violated anything. And here I will borrow the words of SD Group leader Matjaž Han, who said that the government can decide in a way that is not as the law dictated to it, but also as a soul calls it. You know, after the war, thousands of people were killed. Even then, some in this area were commanded by a soul to do so. That's when we heard the president of the National Assembly at these events when he was talking about natural law, and that's also what a soul says. Thousands and thousands of people were killed in Srebrenica, and so were some souls. I ask you where the souls are for citizens and citizens who collect stoppers to allow operations for children. Isn't that what a soul says? I'm asking you what's going on with those waiting lines that not only lose their health, but also their lives. Is that a soul we're saying? The president of the coalition party or the coalition party's parliamentary group said that the legislation had been violated. But that's what we call a soul. And, President of the Government, tell me what kind of soul it has been here to command against Mr Ahmad and the family that I have pointed out before, because under your law they do not apply. Not only have you divided citizens and citizens of this country into first and second-class nationals, you are now dividing migrants in this way – first and second-class. Those to whom you devote a few hours of meetings of the Government and those sent by an inhumane minister to the safe country of Croatia. Today, I am listening here as if the Slovenian Democratic Party was the one who was in charge of the procedures for this. We're a dark force. Data have been given on how many people have been deported and in view of this procedure I believe that they have also remained in line with the laws and regulations. And the Minister is doing the right thing, even though I believe she's still kind of humane and she doesn't care about how and what. Because, like I said, everyone has a story. But there are a lot of stories in this country, your honor. President of the Government, our children have also become first and second-class. For some are paid by the school, and others not by the budget. And you promised some things. But that's what a soul says. And this is your soul. My soul is a little different. First of all, I'm absolutely human. But second of all, laws and constitution are important to me. Of course, your parliamentary group has once proved itself; it has taken the "humanity" of the soul, as it was commanded by the soul, a mandate for a fellow member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. So much for the darkness and light of King Louis XIV. This is human kindness, and this is the protection of ethics, morality and the rule of law. And so did you, President of the Government, who broke the law, you intervened when you were no longer supposed to. And if you are so sure of your right, and no matter how this story ends with the said gentleman, then you should be the first to call on your parliamentary group to vote in favour of the Constitutional Court ruling. As a constitutional lawyer, you're not afraid of anything as far as constitutional standards are concerned. But, of course, you are a human being and your soul tells you that no one would vote from the coalition Members for such a decision. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have no doubt that you will stick to this, because your soul is just telling you that you can do whatever you want and feel. Whether you come from a legal line or you come from a professor’s line of conduct — illegality, unconstitutionality is so close to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u51	It's a replica, I think. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u52	Thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u53	Replica, Mrs. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u54	It is the Court of Justice of the European Union, see the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on European Union. Sometimes it was called the Court of Justice of the European Communities and now it is the Court of Justice of the European Union. There's only so much for the public, and maybe when you come up with a proposal again, you'll know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u55	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Government is no different than his ministers when we are dealing with interpolation. Nor does he speak and answer the debates of Members and questions raised. Let me recall, in this debate or this proposal for a constitutional indictment, we are not talking about anything other than the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but the conduct of the Ministry and the conduct of the President of the Government. And now I want an answer, not just what my colleagues gave me. Who did this wrong? Is it the Minister of the Interior or the President of the Government? That's all we talk about. There are still court decisions, and so on, underpining the decisions of the Ministry of the Interior and not the decisions of the President of the Government. And I would like those who have declared themselves a legal expert in this National Assembly and, at the same time, the President of the Government to comment and explain to us, ignorant citizens, those who do not know how to write a motion to accuse the President of the Government before the Constitutional Court. Please, Mr President, call on the expert, the constitutional lawyer, President of the Government of Dr Mir Cerar to try to explain this confusing situation that has taken place in the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u57	On the basis of which point or point [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u58	Mr President, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u59	Rules of Procedure? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u60	It's not a problem. [[…]] I suggest you invite him, as you sometimes had to call some minister who failed or wanted or could respond to some of the interpretational findings. This is unworthy, Mr President, that we have here a proposal for a constitutional indictment, we are talking about unconstitutional conduct or the Government or the President of the Government or the Ministry of the Interior, and there is no answer, not from either side. I think the Prime Minister should explain that. The public expects it. It is also a scandal for the public that the President of the Government is not responsible. The scandal, the scandalous treatment and attitude towards the agenda item and the proposers. Please call him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u61	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u62	Mr. Tanko, I'm just going to explain something else for a moment. When I initially very clearly rejected all the unfounded, even some entirely, I would say, unreasonable accusations that you have made, I have already said practically everything that was essential. Of course, I will repeat some things, even for you who have been absent all the time; you have now come to the hall and speak of some insolence. I sit here all the time, I listen to the debate, I haven't seen you for hours here in the hall. Yeah, were you here? You tell me. Where have you been? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, sure. Therefore, I do not allow anyone who has not even participated in this debate to come up against me in a half-time performance at the beginning of all the answers to all your accusations. But if you're asking me now, tell me who did the wrong thing. No one did the wrong thing on our side. You, Mr Tanko, are doing the wrong thing by the Members who have proposed a constitutional indictment and who want to fully devalue this constitutional statute, as well as many others. I'll give you the answers below or at the end to say a few more things, but you're obviously running out of ammo, because you're spreading the debate to all possible topics that have nothing to do with the constitutional charge; you're talking on average about this and one and three and four – why? Because your constitutional charge, let people hear it, covers a little more than 4 pages of text, 4 pages, 4 pages; on no serious constitutional charge in this world – and this institution knows a few countries, read my article or any other professor who writes on this topic – it has not happened to be on 4 pages, please. This is already an unworthy attitude towards the institute itself, to Parliament, to the public. Not to say how many mistakes and superficialities there are; some I have already warned about, but some I will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u63	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, please remind Mr President of the Government that so far only two of our Members have participated in the debate, as you have done in the order of the debate, no more so far. And not a single question has been answered. Mr President, please warn the President of the Government that he has only commented on what he has received as a constitutional charge, and he has not commented on any debate yet. And if Mr President of the Government is a serious politician, he would also have prepared at least two pages of the response to our interpretation, and he did nothing, nothing. Speaking of which, we're dealing with these procedural matters. And one more thing; both the debate you were here and also the introduction of Mr Grims or Mr Gorenak's performance did not go in any way deviant from the proposal for a constitutional indictment by the Prime Minister, in any way. The debates of your Members, your leaders of the parliamentary group, took place in the debates of the Desus Members and so on and the Škobernets and so on, not ours. Otherwise, remind Mr President of the Government that the meeting of the National Assembly is chaired by the President, not the President of the Government. And he is the one who is obliged to direct the debate and to point out these things, so it has been the rule so far. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, my presence; let Mr President of the Government take a picture of the National Assembly, and calculate how long I have been in the Chamber. And maybe I should have given the government a report, but how long was I in my office and watched him on TV when he was silent? I ask you to serve with this information and also to warn him about these things, because when he doesn't answer, when he doesn't answer, when he doesn't say where and why it came from in the government, and why he got involved in this process in this way, then we're probably right about these things. And the weakness you show is that you do not hope to judge the legal profession, whether the impeachment is justified or not; you do not hope to send this proposal to the Constitutional Court, which is so bad. Now you decide whether we're bad or you're rabbits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u65	Well, now you won't, and for the second time you've misused the procedure, I'll give you a reminder. No one's ever done this before, and you're the first to begin with procedurally in this way. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u66	Thank you. I would really suggest that we discuss legal arguments. To say that there is a problem because it is written only on a few pages is, of course, rather unrealistic. Can we even print this 20 times, or can we bring up a matter that weighs 10 kilograms — or will it weigh more or what? What logic is that, ladies and gentlemen? The question of the argument and in this case the matter is quite clear. A press release is sufficient, an official document stating that the President of the Government "has decided to stop the procedure for returning to Croatia after examining all legal and other circumstances of this case." Of course, the President of the Government does not have such rights under the applicable legislation. We are talking about the finality, legality and enforceability of an administrative decision, which is not only final and legal as such, but has been confirmed in all legal cases. And once again, because there was talk about what was going on later, what was going on with us was a matter of legal disorder, it was only a matter of what the Government was doing and the Minister of Justice was doing in that area. [[…]] Then what can be happening in recent days is, which has nothing to do with it, because this is related to the situation that was that day when not only the decision was already served and therefore the decision was legal, final and enforceable, but even the enforcement process was already under way. And now we have a total theatre of absurdity today; the most loud are those four Members or three Members of Parliament who helped to stop the procedure themselves, that is to say, they also obviously violated the law when they intervened in a procedure already carried out by the Ministry of the Interior. It's perfectly clear. It is sufficient that the Government itself has stated, of course, in the light of the current legal order and legislation. Things are obvious, of course, it's just a matter of final decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u67	Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. I think we'll take a break if we proceed with the procedure. If it's really not justified. Please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u69	By the rules of procedure, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u70	Yeah, yeah. You gave me a warning because I asked a procedural question the second time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u71	You have not asked a procedural question [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u72	I'm here, I'm here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u73	But you've basically abused the procedural form of defaming and challenging the Prime Minister of the Government. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u74	I have addressed the procedural question, as usual, first and second to you and invited you to invite the Prime Minister of the Government to begin answering the questions raised. This was a procedural question, followed by an explanation. And what you have given me a reminder of, for the second time I have asked a procedural question, there is no violation of order at a meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u75	But there's an insult that was contained in the end. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u76	No violation of the order, Mr President [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u77	Infringement. [[…]] An insult is an insult.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u78	A reminder or a measure shall be issued only if the order of the meeting of the National Assembly is violated.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u79	Yes, there is a violation of order at a meeting of the National Assembly [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u80	Insulting? [[…]] I didn't hurt anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u81	shall be decided by the President. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u82	I have addressed you, Mr President, to call on the President of the Government to begin to answer and to clarify this dilemma where a mistake or discourse has arisen – either at the Ministry of the Interior or by its decision – which Mr Grims has previously justified in his debate. And I suggest you take this measure disciplinaryly, because you have no basis for saying it. None. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u83	Procedural? Gradually, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u84	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, members of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As far as the proceedings are concerned, I also miss a few small things, so that I can now express my surprise that if so much is said today about the decisions of the Ministry of the Interior and the whole range of courts, we do not have any of these documents in the material for today's session. We have only a constitution and laws between the materials, which is probably not the material for this session, because these are generally valid acts that bind everyone. Everything I see between these things has been explained by the MNZ in the case of Ahmad Shamieh of 15. 11. 2017 and www.government.si, a press release – to which I think they have just referred – and the message STA of 15. 11. 2017, the Syrian refugee remains in the country for the time being, will be decided by the Government, collectively prepared by Tjaša Dolac. That's all we have for today's session and we're struggling. And, of course, the President of the Government, as he himself said nicely, and of course here I strongly reject the allegations made by the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group that the President of the Government does not answer. [[…]] In fact, the debate is only a good start and if, of course, Mr Tanko knows that the President of the Government is advertising when he considers it appropriate and necessary. Clearly, he felt that at this time, as far as the debate had gone on, there were not enough reasons to answer what we were having today — the constitutional charge. The extension to various other issues, which, of course, are regularly raised by the honourable Member of Irgle at such meetings, is something that we are also accustomed to. And I believe that when the President of the Government considers this appropriate, he will answer these questions. However, I would like to ask my respectable colleague Tank not to interfere with our work and to stop asking procedural questions so that we can at least carry out the bulk of the debate of Members and, of course, we will be able to assess such proposals accordingly. I think he was too early in this part and we haven't even come so far in the debate to invite anyone, because it's an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, not any kind of procedure where anyone here would be obliged to respond to any kind of [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u85	So you want to go through the procedure again? Now it's the fourth procedure. Counting [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] But before that, it was a warning about the procedure and the abuse of procedure. I made it clear earlier that you received a reminder because you abused plus insults twice. I sincerely hope I don't have to react again. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you wanted to react, you should have come to Mr. Horvath. Mr. Horvath had a debate. He was essentially Mr. Cerar's advocate. He did not refer to you with a procedural proposal, but he did discuss what I propose, what Mrs Irgle said and so on. Let the Doctor of Administrative Law teach you how to ask a procedural question, a procedural question. And what it's meant to be. Our procedural or procedural questions were intended solely to receive the answers of the Prime Minister. And I also said where I see an additional difference in these practices within the Government, between the Ministry of the Interior and the conduct of the President of the Government. And we wanted to remind you further that we also have an answer to the debate that our Members have done before that. These are Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Eve Irgle's discussions. After four and a half hours, Mr President, it is likely that sufficient time has passed — as regards Mr Grims' introductory explanation and the position of the members of the groups and now ten or fifteen debates — for the President of the Government to come forward and comment on these matters. It is likely that one normal citizen expects the President of the Government to be able to answer about the things he has caused and which are being heard as proposing by this proposal for a constitutional indictment. So I addressed this question to you to invite him, because he obviously doesn't have the power to start answering. There must be some obvious momentum, but the question must also be raised that the debate in the National Assembly is intended for et contra, that is to say that the debate is open and that this debate is then also attempted to be answered in a reasoned manner. It's not like that. There has been no reply to all these debates, Mr President of the National Assembly, so far. No explanation, no defense of the Prime Minister. Nothing. And we're waiting for the session to end, and then that's when the session is over, and when someone comes back for the department, they're going to broadcast what they think they have to tell us. We don't need that. However, we need current answers to the questions raised, and I ask you to call on Mr President of the Government to respond in a timely manner, because I see that he writes certain things in an inflamed way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u87	First of all, you do not have a procedural basis or a business basis for requiring any response from the President of the Government. You know this as well as I do, and it is a matter of defense – both in interpretation and in constitutional charges – in fact, logically the same. The parties must defend their position. The strategy they choose is their business, not theirs. However, it is a matter for the President to keep repeating the misuse of procedural issues in order to qualify substantively as well as the conduct of the President of the Government and Minister of Home Affairs in your current years. Evaluation, qualification, any assessment does not fall into the procedural question, and I would now like to ask you all to decide whether we will continue to do so or whether we will interrupt and then we will continue to discuss it if we are not able to discuss it without procedural proposals. If we are, then I'd ask you to continue. Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I have to, I have to comment on this first, and then I'm gonna go to what I was going to say. Colleagues from the SDS, for God's sake, what should the President answer? Please tell me what to answer now. On these four pages? In response, he gave you ten times more information than you wrote in those four pages. You said there were only two of your deputies. We also had only three Members debated with us, so that there would be no mistake in having them debated here on this side, I don't know, ten. There was nothing! There's nothing to answer, you understand? What do you want me to say? And now I'm going to do what I was going to say. And that's what's always being abused. So, these costs and these benefits that Mr Ahmad is supposed to have acquired and these thousands of 963 or I don't know how many euros multiplied by 18 and I don't know what else you've written here in your statements. Of course, you still manage these numbers successfully, regardless of the fact that the Prime Minister of the Government already dealt with the oral question last January completely with all the costs that Slovenia has with the individual persons who are here, let alone the applicants, whether they are persons with recognised protection and so on. You keep going on with these manipulations, with some reference, every three months we have one board meeting, the National Assembly, whatever it is that these manipulations continue, that of course the lies repeat themselves, that they become the truth, that society is constantly being separated and so on. Of course, we talked for a while about condoms and jackets, but then, of course, we went back to the costs again. And in the meantime there was one statement that I now quote – this is from March 2017: “... but if there were no asylum seekers, there would be no employees there. Then the cost would be zero, and so the cost is EUR thousand 963.” These are first-class deceptions by the proponent and I think that this is the main problem when you actually all know that the deceptions are lies, that they are modified data, but of course you still use them and insist on them. This cost is based on some Court of Auditors reviews, the truth, and the truth is quite different. 57.9% of this amount is paid by employees; 18,6 are operating costs; 64% of this is fixed costs and only 15% of what is intended for individual care is provided by an individual. We also understand that this is not something that applicants would get, but it is what a bed costs, on which they sleep and three daily meals that they receive in an asylum home or in one of its exposures. Above all, however, this represents only a small proportion of the state budget, with almost 75% of the European funds earmarked for the integration of refugees. Let us go specifically to these 214 applicants, who were in the Republic of Slovenia on 3 January, namely 214 asylum seekers. The care day for one applicant with international protection is 18.49 euros, which is slightly over 500 euros per month, and, of course, the allowance that we add, is 18 euros per month — not some strong millions, tens of thousands of euros, but 18 euros per month — totaling 572.99 euros per month. So much for these huge millions. However, the cost of operating an asylum home, i.e. food, security, electricity, heating, plumbing, sewage, cleaning and so on in 2017 was 1.3 million – operating costs. When Slovenia decided to become a single country and decided to become a member of the European Union, of course, we also decided to establish an asylum system as a member of the European Union and as a signatory to the international treaties. The establishment of an asylum system means, of course, setting it up with budgetary, public money, so to speak, integration houses, asylum homes and also employees who, of course, deal with this area, are those fixed costs. And let me inform you that with the establishment of this system, your government has started this infrastructure, so, of course, I would expect you to know that, and because I am sure that you know this, this is again a deliberate deception. Of course, we are obliged to provide the applicants with basic rights in the areas of accommodation, health insurance, social insurance and so on; these are, of course, some variable costs, which in fact depend on how many people are being treated at that time. But let me say that, for example, Germany and Austria are much more generous here, as far as these benefits are concerned, and of course this is also known at costs. And if I went back to this quote: “If there were no asylum seekers, there would be no employees there. Then the cost would be nothing.” Of course, it would not have been such a cost if Slovenia had decided otherwise in 1991 or 1992 if it had not opted for independence, if it had deviated from the International Convention on the Status of Refugees and had not become a member of the European Union. However, these costs would definitely not have been borne if they were to remain part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or, God forbid, the Great Serbia; they could also become one of the federal countries of the Republic of Austria and then they would not have these costs. Otherwise, the discourse that you know time is used – every three months, as I said, at least one session – absolutely, absolutely to be rejected and unacceptable, creates divisions between citizens and citizens, shares society; instead of being constructive, positive signals come out of this house. And I hope that through history, which is full of this kind of discourse, at least we have learned something. Today I accidentally took this into my hands, I hope you know – Slovenian, Tuesday, January 31, 1939. On the first page of Hitler’s speech, literally and on the other hand, information about refugees from Spain to France is said in the then civil war in Spain. And here's an address: All healthy men must return. We're here, are we here? According to your statements today, after the discourse you have been using this entire mandate, we are here. And I warn you once again, let's learn from history. This kind of discourse has led to some unfathomable events, to tragedies, to the seas of Jews, Roma, Slavs; today we have also touched slaves and slaves and so on, and then it spreads and rolls like snow. And we get to the parasites that Hitler also mentioned in that same speech: to the socially useless, to the crippled, to the unproductive, to the elderly, to the weak, and so on. And one event, which also affected Slovenians because of such a discourse, took place on June 9, 1941, when 550 people were taken to Austria and shot there. 550 people who were taken from a mental institution in New Cel, from a nursing home in Medlog, in Vojnik, in Slovenian Horses, in Ptuj. That's where we are if we use this kind of discourse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u89	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Janko Weber. Allow me, Mr. Zorčič, a representative of the proposer has asked for the floor. Mag. Branko Grimes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u90	Just for a little while. It would be very interesting to hear from the SMCs, and from there there is a very, very large proportion of those who are coming and whom you so vehemently call refugees. The war is over in Syria. Of course, the wave does not stop, the wave will still be, and it will probably be stronger in time because it is driven by purely other things; they are not any refugees. One part of this is the organized invasion of radical Islam, one part is people who follow the desires for profit or have been persuaded to do so in one way or another. That is why, of course, it is also necessary to take appropriate action. And to compare this to the comparisons you have just made, it is, to say the least, offensive to the victims of Nazism and fascism. And if you didn't know, radical Islamists like to say their Nazi greetings very much, and through the space of radical Islam you have all the exhibitions “Our Friend Hitler” and so on because they follow his example. If you don't believe me, check the Internet. You will obviously find it very interesting and very instructive in view of this debate you have now had, which, by the way, has nothing to do with what we are dealing with. Except for one part. You said, yes, but if it wasn't for that, then there wouldn't be any cost or proof that there must be costs, and I don't know what else you're up to. It's not exactly like that. Consider the case of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic simply said no when it comes to migrants — Slovakia too — and it has no problems. They come here, but they don't have quotas, they don't participate in these stories, and they have negligible costs. But they have a very safe country, like Hungarians and Poles, by the way, and no problems. Now compare this to the situation in Brussels or with the situation in Paris or Berlin or Nice or wherever you want, and you may also understand why this difference is important. And don't talk to me about xenophobia, about fear of strangers, because it's not the point of being a stranger. The point is, who is this stranger? I've done this a little bit of caricature once, but I can do it again. There, when I was on a round table doing a civil initiative, I was invited because there were 100 people coming from Africa, and there was similar evidence of xenophobia. I said it, didn't I? Well, if there were now 100 young girls from Ukraine – because, by the way, Ukrainians are the only real refugees in the European Union, because they are in real danger in Ukraine, in the immediate neighborhood of the European Union – but would there be any civil initiative against it? No, we'd say hello to them. So it doesn't matter if someone's a stranger, but the key is who's coming. And I just repeat what I said at the beginning: Slovenia is the home of all the people who live here, of all citizens and citizens. And whoever's in the house has the right to decide who enters this house. And by the way, Mrs. Slug – home, also probably yours, you lock. But we lock it not because we hate those who are out there, but because we love those who live in the house.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u91	Mr. Igor Zorčič, please, you have the floor. Get Mr. Franz Breznik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u92	Yes, thank you very much for your word. I take this debate today as some kind of pre-election input, on a topic that is currently in place in all countries of Western Europe; it concerns this migrant policy, fear of migrants. And I fully understand that the SDS in its manner somehow embraces certain claims, which in the form of some kind of radical right rhetoric actually introduces some fear among people that something is going on here that could endanger our way of life. However, at this point, I must point out that Slovenia is now a safe country to say that what is being seen most often, my colleague Grims, I think he is doing this even weekly as Chairman of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, that in fact he is citing some kind of press conference, he is talking about some migrant policy, but we need to know that ultimately this migrant policy and the migration event that has affected Slovenia is something that is behind us. It is true that we are still witnessing certain illegal transgressions, but we have witnessed this for the past 20 years. So this debate today is not really a debate on this charge, which we have heard and we have also seen that it is entirely unfounded both from a legal and a political point of view, that it is flawed, but that it is a debate that is some pre-election confrontation. The elections are six months from now, and colleague Grims wants to convince people that he and his client are fighting for Slovenia, that the government of Mira Cerar is moving all the way from the Middle East to the Republic of Slovenia and that they remain here for you. Of course that's not true. We well know that those migrants who came to the Republic of Slovenia in 2015 have then moved on. And let us not forget, colleague Grims – I have warned you about this once before, but you have not had any convincing answer – you have in all of this multiculture of agony, as you often do in this National Assembly, forget that in the past your government has largely opened doors to migrants; otherwise not to illegal migrants, to workers, however. A short time ago it was the day of migrants; it was reported that in 2008, 2009 – these are the consequences of your rule – 50,000 migrants came to Slovenia. That is why I am surprised by this rhetoric, with which you address your electorate in particular, when you want to present this government as, I don't know, very generous to all those who want to go to Slovenia, and perhaps even harm us. So, here you are very dishonest, especially to those of your constituents that you want to convince that you care about some public interest, and you may forget what you did during your government. What bothers me is that both the right and the left have somehow abused his story. On the one hand, the Left wanted to get involved somehow in a way that is not the case under the laws of this country, with some action by members of the National Assembly, and we all know that the fate of this Lord is decided by the Ministry of the Interior, including the Government, the courts, we also know how they decided. On the other hand, this story includes a right hand, which has also been used by the media, echoes and similar insults by this gentleman, which I think is also wrong, and in fact has somehow used his fate to kind of pour oil into the fire. The fact is, we must look into our eyes, pour ourselves pure wine, that the National Assembly has no jurisdiction in this matter; we are the Law on International Protection, we have already adopted the Law on Foreigners, and then these laws are enforced by other authorities and not the National Assembly. And all that remains obvious to some politicians in this house is that you have initiated a constitutional indictment procedure and this important institute has been banalising for such a matter, which will obviously not be supported even by So, this constitutional indictment will not receive support even in Novi Slovenije. [[…]] It is indeed disturbing that, after one such act has been introduced into this national assembly, which is probably also one of the most important – or this – constitutional legal theory, that we do not have many SDS Members today, not to mention that I have not seen members of the Left for a long time today in the National Assembly. I believe that none of them went to visit this gentleman either in hospital or elsewhere. Well, it's more than obvious that his name or that his name, respected colleagues on the left, was misused from the right for the purposes of this promotion before the next election. Of course, I will not support the constitutional charge under any circumstances. I also do not agree with this argument, which has been put forward, yes, let me support it and the lawyers in the Constitutional Court will decide on it. You know, if that is the case, then supporting this constitutional act would also support the constitutional charge, supporting its content. Of course, because we cannot agree with the content, I do not agree and, of course, I will not support it. There's something else I'd like to point out, Comrade Grimes. I suggest that you do not base similar acts on lies. You have previously specifically said that this government is taking money from taxpayers and handing out thousands of euros to every illegal migrant, those are your words. This is a lie that I don't think is worthy of this national council, but if you're telling the truth, I suggest you bring this document now, which will confirm your words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u93	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u94	Yeah, first of all, sometimes it's good to say that everybody understands. Given that my colleague has an obvious socialist infection, I will use Margaret Thatcher’s words: “What’s the problem with socialists? That sooner or later other people's money is running out." For it is always good to see a socialist who has no hands in his neighbor's pocket, but in his own pocket: but it is generally only in the winter, that you all know it well. As for where you take money, you take it from taxpayers, and then you spend it, but you don't use it rationally, you use it unethically. But you use it according to political objectives, in a given case, so you have too much consumption as migrants. Mrs Sluga, who spoke before you, showed wonderfully that the Court of Auditors is obviously the last instance, the last instance in Slovenia, when it comes to determining the real costs, but Mrs Sluga. But no offense, the Court of Auditors is still an official and legal institution that detects consumption and that consumption is measured by it. By the way, you will not believe, but you will do well to sit down, but not take into account all the costs that your government has with illegal migrants, because your government still gives money to NGOs to help prolong these trials in migrants – a little differently it calls it official, but in fact it is such an effect – and if you add it up, you get a thousand 380 euros per migrant every month. And let someone convince me that this is a rational spending of taxpayers' money. So much for a start. Then, a colleague who was talking about migrants during the government of Janez Janša or under the leadership of the SDS. There will be no shock – but you know, there are governments that are economically successful and have an extremely rapid development that is even faster than the average of the European Union. [[…]] And you won't believe it, the only government like that until now was the government of Janez Janša. Of course you can't understand that with the government you have. But because the development was so fast and so strong, there was a need for additional labor. And what you're saying was people who got temporary work permits in Slovenia, because there was not enough work available in Slovenia that would be ready for these jobs. That's all this was about – because we were very successful as Slovenia, as an economy back then. Of course, it's hard to understand today, because I believe it, according to the government you have. As far as everything else is concerned, I don't know. You're saying, the story with the migrants is over. [[…]] This is a fairy tale now being heard by all of Europe. Firstly, the influx of migrants into Greece has tripled over the last period. Secondly, all secret services point out that Erdogan is likely to use illegal migrants to further blackmail the European Union. With Europe being blackmailed once, there will be every time, of course, a major problem. The problem for Slovenia is particularly because, at last, some naval forces have begun to block in the Mediterranean region and, therefore, the pressure from Africa and the Middle East is increasing back to the Balkan route, where, as you will not believe, some have taken care of their peoples and, say, Orbán has set up a huge fence, even a double. Where, then, will these currents — when they arrive and the flow disperses here — go? Yes, to Slovenia, very simple. And that this is not just an imagination, as you would like to say, ask the Minister of the Interior, and she will tell you that the number of illegals that are now being intercepted is in a scattered stream – of course this is no longer the organised Cerar Express, which was once – significantly larger, several times larger than in comparable past periods. So it's growing. And if you think that this is nothing in Slovenia, as you should probably know as a Member, we have recently had a theft committed by migrants. [[…]] When they were hunted, they resisted arrest. There have also been cases of illegal transport, and in some cases there has also been an escape, and foreigners have been involved. And let's say in Illyrian Bistrica, if my memory doesn't deceive me, there's been a hit by migrants and they've been caught by flags and you won't believe it, and the next minute they're applying for asylum. We have laws like that. And because of that, don't say that this thing is alive. The question of what will happen to Europe and its civilisation is the most crucial long-term issue facing Europe today. In the short term, due to economic issues, because all migrants live practically on social issues and security issues, but in the long term, due to the question of the existence of civilization, modern as we know it, and we consider it to be the only civilization, because it is based on consistent respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, while the Sharia law brought by radical Islam with it is simply not compatible with this civilization. Anyone who says otherwise is lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u95	Gradually, Mrs. Janja Sluga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, I am asking you very nicely – what my colleague Grimes was now saying was completely taken from the context of the things I was saying. It was exactly what I said before. Of course, one information that is given is the one that the proposer then abuses, turns it around, and lists everything at once. Indeed, the Court of Auditors came to the amount that you are referring to and my statements were based on exactly what the Court of Auditors wrote down. I literally read it. It is said that 57.9% of this amount is paid by employees, 18.6% are operating costs and maintenance costs, i.e. 64% of this amount is fixed and independent costs. This has already been stated by the Court of Auditors. What I said below is nominal amounts. Nominal amounts referred to by the President of the Government. And please don't fool yourself that I'm now the instigator and expert who's going to talk about how much an individual asylum seeker actually costs us. Please, Vice President, this is my procedural initiative. But I'm still going to use this case, but if you're going to punish me, fine. Here is one book of Migration and Crime by Mr Bučar Ručman; I suggest you read it and look for what you have been talking about for quite some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u97	Mrs. Servant, if it were a replica, it would be just as fine, but I think you've already put things in your place. But I can see that mag. Branko Grimes wants a procedure. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u98	Very nice. I'd like to join a colleague. I propose that you add the last study of the Government of the Republic of Germany, which has shown clearly and unequivocally the link between the number of migrants and crime or the increase in crime by ten per cent and more in the individual areas, when this is made available. It will be a very informative and very interesting reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u99	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Tomaž Lisec. Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u100	Hello! So, respected colleagues and colleagues, the essence of today's constitutional accusation by the Slovenian Democratic Party is that Miro Cerar as Prime Minister thought a few months ago that Mira was “Cesar”, not Miro Cerar. That he has the exclusive right, as he himself said today; the only argument is humanity, as he has said, can, with some discretion, which he himself has somehow exercised, come literally into a final court procedure where the said gentleman should be handed over to the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, and that he can prevent this from becoming popular in non-governmental organisations due to the fact that he is left-handed. A statement by someone who is also a professor of constitutional law was unacceptable, and it has been proved that the procedure stood that day and several days. So let me rephrase the statement of 13 November 2017; the President of the Government stated: “I am committed to holding back tomorrow's decision on Ahmed Shamieh's deportation until all legal options are examined.” Excuse me, the President of the Government has not yet replied to which law allows him this right, the special discretionary right of the President of the Government, to be able to proceed with the procedure led by the Migration Office at the Ministry of the Interior, that is to say, the procedure is the essence of everything. [[...]] And the essence of this is – if he permits this right, we are interested in whether he has this right in other procedures, when there are exceptional injustices before Slovenian courts to Slovenian citizens and citizens. Whether this procedure will apply to, say, the Olah family in Isola, where the mother, daughter and two unaccompanied minors were left without an apartment for a few thousand euros and the court, which had the opportunity to sit on one garage and pay the creditors, did not, the court overlooked certain numbers and took away the family's apartment. There is a whole range of shares due to a few hundred euros. And this government led by Miro Cerar His constitutional colleagues in his previous constitutionally rejected moral act, as expressed by Prof. Dr. Toplak, Prof. Dr. Teršak and Prof. Dr. Avbelj, when he somehow made a circuit when he failed to comply with the Constitutional Court decision concerning private schools, so they used it to be a constitutionally rejected and also a rejected moral act. So, today we're ahead of the third round of marathoners running an honorary circle. You have taken away the unconstitutional mandate of colleague Janez Janša. Even then you had similar so-called arguments in which you said we were wrong; the Constitutional Court showed you the right. All the constitutional profession, which also applies abroad, said that a large part of the coalition, together with the Prime Minister of the Government, had committed a constitutionally rejected act in the financing of private schools. And Prime Minister Miro Cerar, when it came to, I can say, the deportation of the said illegal economic migrant from the Republic of Slovenia, took a discretionary right, because this was not a legally rejected act, but it was a performance for the media. Now, of course, you're trying to make a story; you're saying that we're representatives of the dark forces, you're attacking us. We're gonna make it through this. We're gonna make it through this. However, before I conclude, because I don't want to steal time from my colleagues, I would tell my colleagues the basics of justice. Above all, I fear for all the students of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, where, after the end of this term, the institution of teaching processes, the professor of constitutional law will most likely explain that laws and constitutions can be violated by the President of the Government if he acts subjectively and says that if it is an example of humanity, then he can determine humanity and then he can do so. I would remind you that the legal theory suggests that legal certainty requires the inadmissibility of a legal relationship arising from an administrative act issued in order to achieve such inadmissibility must be given to an administrative act establishing a legal relationship, such a property which excludes the possibility of its abolition, repeal or amendment. [[…]] This is the aim of the Institute of Finality and Legality. A property which obliges the person concerned to fulfil the obligation imposed. And that's what today's constitutional charge is all about, respected colleagues and colleagues. Someone who says that they have the right to do so has intervened in this finality. On these four sides, which was very simple, we have shown that Mr Miro Cerar has no legal basis for not having any legal basis for this and knowingly violating it, we can say, laws and above all the Constitution. And that's the essence of the constitutional charge. It is sad, I believe, that he will survive politically, as have all of your colleagues who give them solace — from the Minister of Health and everything else. But I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, how will we end up, how will you get in front of the public and how this favoritism of someone who illegally crossed the Slovenian border and never wanted to live in Slovenia wanted to go to Europe; when this project, we can say, failed his personal project, he wanted to stay in the Republic of Slovenia, because it is the first entry European country and he somehow thought that in a few years he would probably be able to migrate again freely across Europe. That's not working. It's not a legal state. Slovenia must preserve its sovereignty, we have made it difficult to gain it, with great sacrifices. And look, the state has a duty to respect – and above all, the President of the Government – the laws and the Constitution. He did not respect here; he acted, we can say, recklessly, on purpose, his statements were well liked and also his actions. This has nothing to do with legal certainty and with the rule of law, so I believe that today we must confirm that the matter is going to the Constitutional Court, where, as we would say, if it has the fashion to weigh itself before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and prove that its action was not illegal. [[…]] This is the whole story of this act and this impeachment. And dear colleagues, you have abused the Constitution twice in this term, and we give you a third chance. Have, we can say, courage, prove your point and answer today with yes at the end of the vote and go to the Constitutional Court and prove that you are right for the third time. That's the whole story. Thank you for listening. The President of the government, I see, is not. As he says, he's always in the hall. I hope he heard it in a room somewhere, and then he'll answer it in an argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u101	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Jani Möderndorfer. Mr. Fox, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u102	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I'll continue where my colleague Franci has finished. In view of the experience of this mandate and the issue and decision regarding the Constitutional Court, do you hope to go to the Constitutional Court in this case, yes or no? [[…]] I think you do not hope to go because you have poor experience with the Constitutional Court because you do not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and do not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And this is what the Government is doing, where the President of the Government at the European political floor boasts how he calls on our neighbouring country to respect the judgments of international courts. This is said by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who in Slovenia violates the decisions of Slovenian courts and violates – which is also very clear in this case – the decisions of European courts. I regret very much that today the President of the Government has not spoken and that the interior minister is somehow moving away from the government when he is walking on the strict left side rather than here sitting on the spot, because all those who followed the story in the Ahmad case were initially confused. The president of the government in her own way, the minister in her own way. The Minister says we have a legal decision and we know what's coming next, and the President of the Government says what we're going to do with a legal decision, which is what I've decided. What will happen to us in the constitution, what will be our laws if we have a Prime Minister who's into all of this? And that's where this nonconsistency of Mira Cerar's policy is shown. Something on the political floor, something at home. And what does he do with that? It divides people into first-class and second-class. Not only do citizens of the Republic of Slovenia become second-rate citizens because of their lack of obedience, because of them there are no extraordinary meetings of the Government, even among economic migrants or asylum seekers becoming first-class – one and perhaps another – and all others second-class, who have the same desire as the President of the Government said they wish to be in Slovenia. But what is this wish? In the Republic of Austria, you are rejected, you come to Slovenia, and suddenly Slovenia is your promised country. What promised land if it was expelled from a neighbouring country? And, Mr President, if it is a condition for us to accept an asylum seeker, as you yourself said, because he has partly learned Slovenian language and work, then I am interested in the respected President of the Government, given that I have listened to you, how many have been rejected and how many have been granted in 2016 and 2017, why or what are the reasons for the other 90% of the applicants you rejected? Didn't they want to learn Slovenian and work? Maybe even work by starting a company. Does Mr Ahmad have a company that pays taxes, maybe he has at least a cash register or something else, or what's his story? Since you obviously know everything about Mr Ahmad, I expect you to say a little more about him than just that he is good enough to learn the Slovenian language and that he needs a job. Even when other people came, whether economic migrants in 1994 or now, they probably had the same instincts, and you told them, stop, we have court decisions. As former colleagues Vinko Gorenak said, and the white van back to Croatia, to the next safe country. But no. Because of one individual who has the judgment of the courts, you are prepared to place the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia on the line. And that's what the man who said: "I created the Slovenian Constitution." And I would expect such a person to respect the Constitution in the first place, because perhaps, respected by Dr. Miro Cerar, you are still aware of what you were writing, probably with a shaking hand, when you, as it were said, helped to create the Slovenian Constitution. To violate the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, to violate the Constitution, to disregard the decisions of the Constitutional Court, to break the laws, to disregard the acts of law, we have these cases in this mandate full. In violation of the Constitution, at least three of us listed. However, if we know how the Constitutional Court works, that within a few years people will complain and probably here the Constitutional Court will only decide that people are right, but not the executive or legislative branch of power, we can expect in the next 5 or 10 years a few decisions of the Constitutional Court, but then everyone will forget that the President of the Government was a constitutional lawyer, a constitutional lawyer who violated legislation. In short, Mr President of the Government, I really want to know why you're dividing people into first-class and second-class people and where is the moment on which you decided to break the laws, that Mr Ahmad is the man who will do something more. I understand that, on the one hand, it goes to asylum seekers for humanity, for their dignity, but where is the moment that Mr Ahmad launched an extremely protected person into this orbit, and where the moments are with the other applicants who become second-rate, because they do not seem to have some political support with the Prime Minister himself, beyond the legislation that he can be first-rate and the others are second-rate. And believe me, Mr. President of the Government, on the basis of such decisions, we have people coming to the Member's offices asking us why only yesterday — I had a man in my office asking about an operation — 28 months comes when people come to the office and say why they have 190 euros in invalidity pensions and so on. And these people have these choices because you raise one and leave the others at the same level for the second grade. And the distinguished President of the Government, given that you know what you have promised the Slovenians – to respect the constitutional order for you to do well – I ask you where is the legal moment of what you have done in the Ahmad case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u103	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Prepare Dr Mitja Horvat and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. The situation in the Government is the subject of this motion for an accusation by the President of the Government before the Constitutional Court. When a procedure is carried out at the Ministry of the Interior in full and taking into account all decisions of the courts, domestic and foreign, including the Constitutional Court, and then there is the intervention of the President of the Government, who has twice publicly praised that he has intervened or stopped the deportation procedure of the said migrant Shamieh Here, in fact, raises the issue of, in particular, compliance with the legislation, including compliance with the powers conferred by the President of the Government. The question of the principle of the division of power is also raised here. If it is so easy to intervene in such proceedings, as well as in any other proceedings, then it is likely that the President of the Government may change any decision of the court, the final decision of the court, the Supreme Court. That's the kind of authority he took in this case, this particular case. And as for my view of the situation, of the situation, of what we have been following, I don't know, since 2000, since then, I have been a Member, it is evident that there has been a violation of powers, a violation of the Constitution and a violation of laws. Interestingly, the President of the Government does not really try to defend his role or his conduct at all. For 5 and a half hours, the debate, even more, and with one sentence – except with the opening act he had – has not actually touched the debate of the Members and replied nothing, not to the position of the groups of Members or to the debate of the Members, despite the calls. Secondly, I find it extremely problematic to advocate so much for this migrant Shamieh, who does not have the conditions to stay and work in the Republic of Slovenia. Our citizens are required to have a registered trade, to issue accounts, to keep a tied account, or to operate with a cash register. Apparently this gentleman can work in black; because he doesn't issue bills, he's not the subject of a hearing at Furs and so on. In addition to the monthly cost of its maintenance, according to the Court of Auditors, EUR thousand 963 is still at work. Now let someone explain to me why people like this migrant are allowed to do so, I will say, such conduct and so on, to their citizens who are in a much more difficult situation, and let us not allow it. Furs, if he gets someone working in black, executes the procedure, issues the decision, prescribes high penalties and so on. While this migrant has guaranteed living conditions, I do not know, health care, that he does not pay any services, that he is given at least three meals of food per day and so on. In Slovenia, this migrant is in a much better condition than any Slovenian who has been on the road and has become a domestically spoken bum – that is not guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Government, probably not a single hot meal a day, these have three. He doesn't have a warm place to stay, he doesn't — and he doesn't — work in black, he can do it and so on. Here we are talking about these, I will say, obvious differences between how the government treats its citizens and people who are illegal migrants. I don't understand why this can't be done in Croatia. Is Croatia not a safe country? Here, I ask the Prime Minister whether Croatia is not a safe country in his opinion. I would understand the deportation of an illegal migrant into a country that is not a safe country, but Croatia is a safe country, like Slovenia and here the Prime Minister of the Government found some reason, some imaginary reason to intervene in this deportation and prevent this migrant from being transported to a safe country. Why is that? Austria had no reservations about bringing it back; why does Slovenia have reservations about giving it to the Croats? But let them do the procedure they have to follow and so on and so forth. I also have a problem with all this debate on politicisation and the quality of this proposal. The President of the National Assembly, who is a member of the SMC, placed this item on the agenda of the sitting without a single reservation, gave no consideration to any legal service in the National Assembly proposing any correction or correction, nor did he reject the matter that we have brought forward. This is said to meet technically all the conditions and, nevertheless, Members of the Party of the President of the National Assembly, who is the largest party in the National Assembly and also the largest coalition party, shall be allowed to discuss whether the proposal is good and appropriate or not. The SDS proposal fulfils all the conditions for the treatment in the form that it is submitted, it is indispensable, and no request has been made for any addition and so on. And all those who talk about, I don't know, politics about all other things – don't you politicize? You're politicizing. And if you already tell us to act politically, but I don't know, pre-eminently – let's put the point down from the political space, let's decide that the matter goes to the Constitutional Court and have Mr Cerar's colleagues decide whether this proposal is constitutionally appropriate or not, whether our case deserves to be heard in the Constitutional Court – the Constitutional Court can throw it away as well as any other case – and whether, in fact, the President of the Government should be penalised for such conduct as he has allowed. I think the main problem is that in the largest government party – no matter what support you have expressed to him, the President of the Government – is the fear of such a decision by the Constitutional Judges. It's fear. And as for me; I do not support any such illegal interference in legality, nor in the procedures that are under way, nor in the position of power at all, as used by the President of the Government. You tell us many times to comment or to put open court proceedings on the agenda. You are able to stop the completed, legally completed procedure, in an illegal and even in an unconstitutional way, by abuse of authority. And I suggest you find strength in the coalition, support the proposal to send it to where it belongs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u105	Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have waited very politely for the President of the Government to return; unlike him, who somehow deals with those Members who may not be in the Chamber all the time, I have waited because I understand that he has other obligations or something else to do, but that does not mean that he does not listen or follow the debate. Now that he has returned, I would like to ask the president to invite him to answer the questions raised in the debate. The answer to such a matter in the end is unacceptable to me. Then he says something and there is no way that I can respond to it anymore, so I am actually interested in these answers, and I think that citizens and citizens too. Not least, it is a relationship, a relationship in the government itself, and it is right that we know in this country whether we have a government or have a minister on the one hand, on the other hand, a government president and so on. I would really ask you to get these answers in time and not when, of course, we no longer have the opportunity to do anything or respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. Unfortunately, I can't ask anyone, even if this is the Prime Minister, to respond to your questions. However, I believe that, at the right time, Mr President of the Government will be able to say what is at his heart in the right way, so I suggest that we continue. Here Dr Mitja Horvat, you have the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u108	Thank you very much, President, for the word once again. Dear President of the Government, distinguished ministers, ministers with teams, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Actually, there's not much to say. As we have already identified in the debate, it is only a matter of question - certain questions are those raised explicitly by the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, or the basic question is whether to support or not the proposal for a constitutional indictment that is before us. And I'm gonna start by saying that he didn't convince me. Not only for reasons, as I said before, that I am missing some things, such as the decision to which they have been referring all the time and, of course, also in the proposal before us, constitutional accusations. But I would like to answer some of the other dilemmas that have been put in place. Of course, I will not be responsible for the President of the Government, because he is not mine, and of course I strongly reject the allegations previously made that I stood up to the President of the Government. I simply made a procedural proposal and apparently the honourable Member, Mr Tanko, did not listen well to me because, of course, I asked that we could continue the debate. What I would like to say is that, of course, I am not afraid, I am not afraid, but I would be ashamed if I supported such a proposal for a constitutional charge, which would then, of course, be dealt with by the Constitutional Court and taken a position on the proposal. I think we have so much to worry about about the reputation of the National Assembly. If anything were to convince me, then I would try to improve the text of the constitutional charge myself, but I am deeply convinced that it is based on the wrong assumption — on the wrong assumption that the President of the Government has done something that is unconstitutional and illegal. It was a pleasure and a pleasure to hear a wide variety of debates from the legal field today and what students teach at the law school in the 1st year. And, of course, maybe in one particular part, before another definition of a respected colleague of mags comes to Wikipedia. Grims, maybe I should react a little, so, of course, we don't have anything to do in the fourth grade if students learn all that in the first year. In part, the debate drew attention to these basic issues, in order to ensure that the President of the Government would intervene voluntarily, arbitrarily, arbitrarily, by overstepping powers and similar allegations in a final, legally binding and enforceable decision. That is also why I said that I am missing a fundamental document of today’s debate, regardless of the fact that — yes, I respect, in the manner we are accustomed to, the material is just as it is. To the best of their ability, they evidently tried to write a constitutional accusation overnight like that; apparently, it was no longer possible to do so overnight. And that is why, of course, she lacks the essential elements that we can decide on today and where we would then without shame go to the proposal that the Constitutional Court find that, of course, such a constitutional decision is without foundation. In fact, something that was not reported and let me say in this part – before the definition of mags comes. Grims in Wikipedia and they will then start to mass use of law students or even wider – that the position of the Government in administrative procedures is somewhat special. At the same time, while the political body is, of course, also in one particular part, the authority exercising control, which was partly pointed out in the previous debate. Of course, it also supervises the work of ministries, even in specific cases. And I would understand the obviouss in this work, and to that end I would think even more seriously and discuss if the President of the Government, as he appears today, would do, in his own will, in his conscience for a variety of reasons, which you are instilling in him and which, of course, you are offering in your mind today. He didn't do it alone. As you know, a nice piece of public work. For the start of two members of the National Assembly, then there were several more, which you mentioned nicely and correctly at the beginning of today's debate. Then it became something about which, of course, and were calls significantly broader to make something happen in this area and in this case. [[…]] And by the nature of the matter, of course, the President of the Government also reacted as he reacted and also said that the possibilities that still exist will be examined. You know very well that there have been some shows that we are not just Members of the National Assembly who are discussing this issue today. That many arguments for and against this type of operation have been made in public. And, of course, that is why I will not repeat them in this place, because, as you yourself have mentioned and as we all have had the opportunity, the content of the reasons for and against us can be made clear and everyone will be able to create his own picture and his own judgment in this regard. But what is actually a fundamental question today, which I think you should correct if anyone is offended by what has not been specifically pointed out today. [[…]] The question that we have today and at the present time, when we have increasingly complex challenges ahead of us, is also whether we can answer these complex challenges very easily, with simple simple solutions, or whether we need to look at things a little wider and sometimes offer some more complex answers to complex challenges. In my mind, of course, I also have something that has been circulating in the global public recently, and it is a dramatic work entitled Terror, where they also point out that the Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany has thought and judged the provisions of a specific law in this area. And one of the basic thoughts — and perhaps on some other occasion, here I am just offering in thought — is one of the basic thoughts in this area is what human dignity is. Whether there is something on which the constitutional order is based or something to be made available in one way or another is very free, very general, very even for daily political purposes or not. I will not be moralized in this work today, although it has been quite a bit about ethics and morality today, so I will offer this to everyone in thought, both to those who are here today in the hall and, of course, to those who are accompanying us and who will think about these issues. And if I look only at a specific case and at the evidence given that in this case there is someone in a privileged position whom we will name in any way – I will not correct and give no judgment – but I think it is a person who is clearly in a deprived position. I will also be pleased that you have already asked some questions, so that I too will offer Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party the opportunity to answer this question. Where does the Constitution state that Slovenian citizens have priority over foreign nationals or that foreign citizens have priority over domestic citizens? This dilemma has been set, and I've shaved myself against it. You can also ignore my question, but I would really like to know where in the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia we have recorded that domestic citizens have priority over foreigners. However, we do have something in Article 14, which you have given quite a warning to today, and I may thus conclude this part of myself. In fact, on the principle of equality; today you demanded equal treatment. The same treatment of people who are not in the same position. That's why maybe Mag. The Grimes also for Wikipedia for some additional definitions. Perhaps even the question See also the discussions or the notes on Wikipedia regarding positive discrimination. [[…]] In some cases, in order to achieve the ultimate equality of individuals, differences must be treated differently in order to achieve final equality. For, of course, people in different situations, if we measure them with the same vats as has been warned several times today, of course, it is very dangerous not to say what is impossible to do. That is why, of course, congratulations and thanks to the President of the Government for his courage to stand before the public and also to say that they will explore whether there is anything else to be done or not in this case. This procedure was thus concluded. And of course, the findings, which are on the constitutional charge, I think they're pointing at the wrong person and, of course, they're not justified. Because of this, as I have already said in the introduction, for more or less of these reasons and many others, for which I do not have time to debate widely today, I cannot, of course, support such a constitutional charge. Especially, once again, not because I'd be scared, but because I'd be ashamed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u109	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u110	Thank you. First of all, I suggest that you bring to Mr Horvath all the textbooks right down in our library, and he will be able to see for himself what I told him earlier; that he is doing here — so I also said that Wikipedia — is such a basic issue that it is practically written in each textbook, what the finality, continuity of the administrative decision means and what its power means and what enforceability means. When it comes to the implementation of a final and legal decision, we both know that a respected professor – and be ashamed of you for having discussed it this way – that in no case, nor theoretically, does the President of the Government have the right to stop it. You were talking about the government's supervisory function as a law professor in this area. In the same breath, what does the political action of some Members, on the basis of which the public was then under pressure, have to do with the government’s supervisory function in administrative matters? Absolutely and absolutely nothing! On the contrary, what you yourself have said about political action is, of course, putting it into the right light, and as a professor of law in this area, you should be aware of it and should be alerted as a professor from your personal integrity rather than being a fool. I also suggest that the President-in-Office send his condolences to the university because he has such a professor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u111	Mag. Branko Grimes, I find it difficult to comment on your procedural proposal, should at least interrupt the session to go get the books. But I suggest to everyone that we do not abuse this institute and try to take advantage of what has been made available to us, so, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, I would like to give you my word as the next one, to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Dr Vinko Gorenak. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. We know this meeting is a big farce. Now we have come so far as to really explain to the lawyer whose books — legal textbooks — we have come so far as to explain to the non-judge the MPs who have a judicial mandate, how to work in court, in short, everything is wrong and everything is put on the head. From the fact that, in fact, we find that not only are we world champions today has someone initially said, I think that was the Prime Minister of the Government, that we are world champions on the institution of constitutional accusation; this needs to be explained a little bit, so that the Slovenian public will know what we are talking about. [[…]] Less than 30 institutions of the constitutional charge were on the entire planet in the three centuries, if we consider certain arrangements introduced, and you today, of course, confirm that we are world champions because 22% of all these less than 30 constitutional accusations are made by Slovenia. So, something's really wrong, I'd say, in this society. Well, those who are big xenophobics and homophobics are nodding something else, they're having trouble with it, but that's their problem. But the problem is that we're spreading this into Slovenian society and that's why I'm embarrassed. It is true that the historical memory of the Slovenians is very short, but not all. And that Mr Gorenak here today explains about the deleted that he was solving the deleted problems, I ask you kindly, because this is nonsense that he even coordinated between the parliamentary groups I apologize. [[…]] That's nonsense. That's what he's saying. By the way, what's this all about? I apologized, said Mr Grimes. But what is it? It's about someone who, so many years ago and so many years ago, of course because he wanted to have pure-blooded Slovenians in this country, participated in an action where so many and so many people had to be wiped out without being on any land that no longer existed. We have already discussed this and today this same Member here is explaining in a loud voice that instead of getting 20 million, if it was in time because he coordinated it, he did not say that this act would not have been made, or 20 million would have been needed. [[…]] And from such people today to expect a debate here about how they are righteous and how they lock up their home apartment, because people at home love their family, but here only the enemies themselves within their own families or how you, Mr Grims, have serious problems with concepts, with the acceptance and understanding of the society in which we live today. [[…]] But that's your personal problem, and I'm not dealing with it today. Today we had quite something, I will say I could discuss for an hour all the delusions and indiscretions that I have heard today in this debate, but I will focus only on a few flowers that have been said today. [[…]] Let's say one was this one. You know what I'm gonna say, otherwise. [[…]] Mr Drnovšek has experienced quite a number of constitutional accusations and it is not an accident – it may have looked terrible, but today it is very understandable and acceptable – he named your president Prince of Darkness. The prince of darkness, with all the gloom that came on the day; he seems to be coming even today. Why am I bringing this up? I'm mentioning it for one simple reason. In fact, when these constitutional charges occurred, Namreč, this is not the only constitutional charge that is unrealistic. [[…]] Remember, those who remember or those who read like Wikipedia, go look at it, you will find that there was a constitutional charge at all, I will say, at the border, when you actually brought as a party to the disgrace of the Republic of Slovenia and not least took its reputation, with that secret agreement to Israel signed by the ODS, and, of course, this way – because you knew that the country was under the arms embargo – you were setting fire to what you really shouldn't. And this was done by those who, after two terms of office, had an investigative commission due to the problems of arms sales in that country. Paradox, I'd say man. There are things we just don't know how to fold together, but if we fold them together, we don't understand them. The other thing that seems even more interesting to me is when someone mentions and talks about international aid and talks – you know, these are the famous populist formulas in the form of phrases that the Slovenes understand very well – let's first take care of our children, take care of our Slovenes, and then we will, of course, give them a chance, if anything, to those in the international space who are looking for help or who will find themselves in such or other problems. It just doesn't work. If we are a democratic country, if we have signed some international agreements and conventions that we must respect or say we do not respect it, let us change the constitution and leave the European Union and then we will live in some ghetto. [[…]] It just doesn't work. Because according to this logic, we wouldn't be raising money for Unicef today, because you know, it's for children who don't live in Slovenia. That's the problem. This concept that I keep talking about, which some individuals within this parliamentary group have. It is interesting, you know, at the outset, Member Janez Janša, who was called Prince of Darkness by Drnovšek, at least he was a proponent and advocated constitutional charges. Drnovsk's, Türk's. Today, he was only halfway through the president's speech, explaining why this constitutional accusation could not hold up, and then he was gone. It's interesting because today is not a top topic constitutional accusation, but it's a top topic where you can borrow money. Interesting — from strangers. We can't give them there, but we can borrow money from strangers. Let's leave, I won't go into this topic, because it's likely that the daily policy will clear them up in the next few days, and you'll have to take your own bath in these jobs. But it's important, of course, that we clear up the matter. Today, colleague Tanko said the following things: “Mr President of the Government has not even informed us in writing of his defence of the constitutional charge.” However, he does not say, because he knows that he has done so for the needs of populism, for the Slovenian public – that article 190 of the Rules of Procedure in the first and second indent makes it very clear that the constitutional charge against the President of the Government is being used, because he speaks of the President of the State – he does not need to do so, but he can do so in writing or orally. And the president decided to do it orally. More, Mr. Tanko, be calm, not nervous, or deal with the prince of darkness. [[…]] Just let me keep talking. What is important, however, is that, of course, today, the President of the Government, in his half-time performance, has made it very clear and significantly more clear why this constitutional accusation is not worthy of a primary school student. Are we embarrassing this Slovenia today? Of course I do. Do you know how, in what way? We've evaluated this institute. We have evaluated it to the point that, in fact, it does not really matter today whether we are asking a question or an interpellation of the government, the minister, the constitutional charge, it does not matter at all. The only one thing they do not hope to invest is what the prince of darkness has been calling for in the previous term. Put it in! Ten signatures, you got 'em, you got 'em, you got 'em, you got 'em, you got 'em, you got 'em, you got 'em, you got 'em, Put in a constructive mistrust if you don't want this government to sit here. And we'll quickly figure out if you have this basis and argument to talk about it. You can't do that. Of course you can't do that. Of course, that's what I'd like to say. Today I think Comrade Tanko will correct me if he does not say so, but I quote – you know, Parliamenter records all the words, these are not my words – “Have the balls, accept the constitutional charge and let the Constitutional Court judge.” You know, sometimes witches get convicted, and then they get soaked in water, and they push them down for so long, and they say if she survives, she's not a witch. And you know, even if some stupid theory were to accept a constitutional charge today, we'd go to the polls before anything happened. And that's why I think it's such a comparison, and I think it's such a populism to run around here extremely unserious, unwise, and, in the end, shameless. Let me finish with one fact. President of the Government, this is my primary purpose for you. You know, one plus you'll be able to write your own in curriculum vitae. Only the presidents of the governments who threatened or, I say, did significantly more than that SDS have experienced a constitutional indictment. No one else. Let's go take a look at history, if that's true or not. And if that's the only plus, then I understand. But unfortunately for you, this will never be confirmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u113	Procedural representative of the proposer, Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u114	I have three procedural proposals concerning the debate that was first held. First of all, I would suggest that you give the honourable Member Möderndorfer some of Persen's drops or something, because after replacing him already with Zares, LDS, Alenko Bratusek, not just now that he's in SMC, he may have been hit by a stroke, given how he discussed it here today. Then I suggest you give him a serious warning because he was offensive across all the limits. And thirdly, however, I suggest you give him a card at the same time. Because after 70 years, he gave the Churchill Maximo a fantastic basis when Churchill said that the widest open cabinets were the most empty.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, I must warn you, because if anyone feels offended, it must be done. Just ad informandum. I see we have another procedural one. Mrs. Eva Irgle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It's 18 and 14 minutes and 39 seconds. We started by discussing the constitutional charge at 12 o'clock. Ever since then, the honourable President of the Government has spoken once and has not answered the questions raised clearly, but has debated whether the leader of the SDS Group is present in the Chamber or not, although not only is he present, he has also debated. But it seems to me as well, both colleague Tanko and colleague Anja Bah Žibert have already warned several times that it would be right to ask the Prime Minister of the Government, as President, to find this power within himself and to answer the questions raised in this debate. Of course, there are also such questions as to how the President of the Government and his government feel about various issues, and they show that the President of the Government and the Government have double criteria in exactly the same cases. That is why I, the President-in-Office, asked, among other things, why it was not the same in the case of a Syrian family with a small child. Why was someone — in this case Ahmad Shamieh — more privileged than this family, and why did he intervene in this case alone? I want the President of the Government to answer this question, and I also want him to answer the question why the general public was not involved in this case, it is said in the case of a Syrian family with a small child, if it was Ahmad Shamieh. I want to know what's worth more than a family with a small child who fled the war zone. Where's the key difference between trying for someone throwing half a country into a luft? Where did such a decision come from, esteemed Prime Minister of the Government? I am interested and want to ask you, Mr President, politely to ask him to answer at least this basic question, because he will solve the many dilemmas that have been raised in this debate and will probably open up. The time is 18, 17 minutes, 22 seconds; now I would really expect Mr President of the Government to gather this power and answer the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u117	Dear Mrs Irgl, as an answer, I can only give you the opportunity to have five more debaters before us and to have the floor of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Mr. Jože Tanko, you wanted to proceed. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. I, I will say, this insistence not to answer, I do not understand because it is for parliamentary democracy to be humiliated and unusual. Any Parliament you have visited, whatever Parliament you have seen, wherever the Prime Minister comes, answers. And here, when dealing with his case, the case of his constitutional charge, he should even answer, because it's meant for him. He's got no power, he doesn't want to, he's sabotaging, he's sitting here six, seven hours, he's wasting his time. Please warn him. All these comments were justified – colleagues and Mr Grimes – to get these answers. Secondly, Mr President or President, I would ask you to inform Mr Möderndorfer that from 1992 to 2004 the governments were led by the LDS, he was then a prominent LDS official. Ask him why he did nothing about the solution to the constitutional decision and deleted. Earlier, it was said that we, in that government that followed the 2004 period, had drawn up a constitutional law that they did not want to adopt. And all the problems concerning the deleted stem from the period when Mr Möderndorfer was a prominent LDS official. And the third thing, and I ask you to deliver to him a magnetogram of my discussion; I did not speak of that part of the human body that he spoke; I did not draw attention to what he was saying with a single word. Please make a magnetogram. Please kindly warn him about the LDS and its role from 1992 to 2004 and the rescue of the deleted. And I ask you very nicely to invite the Prime Minister of the Government to finally rise and say something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u119	I will respond to two procedural questions, then I will give the floor to Mrs Erika Deklava, because I see that there is also a desire for a procedural one. Let me just let you know that I have certain time limits and therefore I should stop even the session if I wanted to do all that you want me to do. Mr Jože Tanko, on the question of the response of the President of the Government, let me answer that any procedural delay the response of the President of the Government, which is scheduled to take place in 5 debaters, for 3 minutes. Mrs. Erika Deklava, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u120	Yes, thank you very much. Just so these motions don't go down like that, I wanted to suggest that you explain to your colleague Eva Irgle that our President is not in court and that she doesn't have to answer when she wants to. He'll answer when and if he wants to. But if she doesn't understand it, I suggest you draw it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. Girl. I believe and I think we understand each other, so I suggest we proceed with the debate. I give the floor to Mr Uroš Piklo, to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mr Franz Jurša. Mr. Prikl, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Chairman. This time I have to disappoint you or surprise you positively, I will be very brief. Why do I have to be short? Firstly, after 6 hours, it is actually difficult to say something surprising new, something drastic, which would have changed the position of individual Members or groups of Members. Secondly, I will be brief for this reason because I do not want to be smart here, but these are complex legal areas and, of course, I am not an expert in this area, so I listened to the arguments that were available to me. However, I must say, I am by nature, many of you have already come to realize this, very critical, even to the President of the Government. However, I find that the Institute of Constitutional Accusation is not a suitable instrument for this matter that we are talking about today. Those who propose a constitutional charge have at least an instrument of interpolation, at least an instrument of constructive non-trust. However, I do not believe that the constitutional charge is the instrument with which to operate today. Of course, it is legal and I believe that this could also be discussed, including a legitimate instrument and an attempt by the opposition. I can't help feeling like we're already in a full electoral campaign when I listen to this debate. However, we know that we will be working in this national assembly for at least a half a year, perhaps a day less. And in the interest of many, I am personally certain, but it is also that we do something else and that we justify the confidence of the electorate and what result we show at the end of the term more than some expect. As it is said, I was convinced by the arguments, particularly those of the Administrative Court, which marked the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal for a constitutional indictment as unfounded. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, I do not think it is right and it seems to me that in the National Assembly it is possible, through a debate lasting more than 6 hours, to conclude that we are playing with feelings needlessly, playing with people's feelings. It is not right to spread hatred – I am not saying that there was a hate speech –, it is wrong for people to be afraid, it is certainly wrong to make barriers between us, it is certainly not right that barriers are being made between us, that again we are being tried to divide us into ours and yours. It is right to hold such a debate to give people hope, to give people confidence in what we are actually doing. I still believe and I am convinced that the Republic of Slovenia is a social and legal country. Many times we can see that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia live on the edge or even under the edge of social exclusion, and it is right to focus on these areas, that we will help people – no matter what part of Slovenia or the world they come from, no matter what they believe or do not believe in, no matter what political provenances they are, – because we will only be able to justify our trust that people have given us today and all these four years of representing them. Of course, I would like to have as few discussions as possible in the future, as few such speeches as possible that separate us, which put us on the left side of each other on the right bank, but when it is most necessary for us to step together and for the benefit of all people to make smart and responsible decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u123	Dr Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare for Mr Franz Jurš and Janez Janša. Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u124	Thank you very much. For a while there's a little bit to say, a little response to this present performance. Look, you live in socialism. There, all the people in this hall were always pressed together as three hundred gods; if any of the voices were raised in 1971, they were removed. Yeah, we're here for the opposition to warn the government what's wrong. That's what we're paid for. I have a salary for that, not to push buttons, those you want. That's another thing. President, you keep talking. Let's give the Prime Minister a chance. It's like she doesn't have one. Yeah, who said that? He has the right to raise his hand at any time under the Rules of Procedure and to have his word. By the rules of procedure, but he won't. Okay. That's what he said. Let's keep moving. Look, someone -- Mr Škoberne -- attacked Mrs Jelko Godec and he said, look, she called an investigative committee, just today, when this is it. Reverse. For the third time, the president of the National Assembly convened a meeting of the National Assembly when she invited the Witnesses and convened a meeting. This meeting was convened last December. You see that delusion? You see that delusion? Come in. Mr President of the National Assembly, the constitutional charge is an abuse. It's abuse. I'm the devil. Whether it is not the President of the National Assembly, it has the first highest salary in this country – in addition to the President of the Government – and then, I would say, we will not deal with this constitutional charge. We're not going to deal with it, I'd say, and I'd say why not. Where's the legal basis for this? It is said that the President of Parliament “lupa”, as it is called. Come in. Look, we were still talking about all of those, of course, Mrs Murgel even gave a lecture about 750 applications, that 316 were decided, 137 approved. Yes, but all the difference that has arisen has gone west and will come back in line with Dublin. So don't fool the Slovenians. You can't fool me. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, they will all come back, because we had them here, because they also played the part and Dublin is clear; they will come back and we will have to take them. Mr Horvat said that the President of the Government did not decide on his own conscience and will. Yeah, now I'm scared. If the Prime Minister has not decided on his own conscience and will, then my thesis is that he has been blackmailed. And I'm still asking, and I still wanted answers from the Prime Minister of the Government that I didn't get, and he even gave a lecture on how that article of the Foreigners Act could be used. Yes, Prime Minister, you had the opportunity to enforce it that Thursday at the government's meeting, and Mr Erjavec and the Jew and the interior minister told you that it would not work. Now you're repeating the same story, again explaining the same mantra that you acted legally. Yeah, get those coalition guys to drop the Home Secretary if you don't think they're right. I'm the only one who thinks she's right. So you don't have the legal basis for doing what you did, so try to grant status through the Aliens Act, article 51. You just don't have that right, and you just don't have that option. And whatever you're going to do next I don't know if you're going to pick up at all; now I see that this is the Cuffer method when you're quiet, you're looking, you're smiling a little bit and the session's over, that's the Cuffer method. [[…]] We had this in the previous composition of the National Assembly, which didn't say anything, but he laughed a little. But you know, a seriously interlocked man or a constitutional accused but I was sitting there like, I'll say, the one who had the interpolation. [[…]] For the first time, I went out for just one sandwich and over to the smallest place where these are physiological needs, but otherwise I was here and I regularly spent the whole time answering. Those Members who have been here also know. We have not experienced this today, but we are experiencing an academic lecture, we have experienced a lot of insults by Mrs Kustec Lipicer, and this is it. That's it. And we've also had moral lessons, how do we have to be good, how do we have to do the same for citizens as they do in socialism, right? Yeah, then why did we change the system in the '90s? To win the opposition, however, a coalition, probably, and some other system we didn't want. I will stop at this point and, of course, I can find out that unfortunately you have said nothing to me, not to members of the coalition and not to the President of the Government. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u125	Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Janez Janša and Dr Dragan Matić. But I see we have a proposal for a procedural [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's a replica. Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I didn't mean it, but because I was so explicitly exposed. I think colleague Gorenak, of course I appreciate you, your performances are extremely interesting at times, but sometimes you kick a little past. [[…]] And here to live in socialism, you've just kicked a little past. Of course it is true, Comrade Gorenak, that we are probably both children of socialism born in socialism. Who is more of a child of socialism than we are, of course, we could discuss this. Of course, we've been paid, we've been called to this place to vote. And if you look at my votes, they are not always the same as the coalition; and the Desus Group is not always uniform, but we think with our heads and vote as it is our conscience, I will speak for myself as it is my conscience, and after every vote I have no difficulty looking into the mirror as I have voted. So, of course, some things need to be cleared up. Speaking of socialism, at the moment there is no social regulation of socialism. But it is true and, of course, I have to say this, but for some moments of socialism, we can have a stake. There wasn't so much poverty, there wasn't so much unemployment, but there was.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u127	Mr Franz Jurša, as was said, has the floor to prepare for Mr Janez Janša and Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u128	President, thank you so much for saying this. Once again a nice greeting to everyone in the hall! I'd start with an opportunity like this. What we were thinking, we probably said, but there wasn't much to say. That's a crucial question, and at this very beginning, I would say this to my parents. We have tried the position of our Group in the way we have understood it to be justified. And we have made it clear and clear that these matters, these constitutional accusations simply cannot be supported because there are no basic grounds. Look, if it wasn't for this migrant we've been talking about all afternoon, then he'd probably be someone else, for example, by the name of Ramiz Ahmed. This time it's someone with a different name and a different name. You know what hurt the most? Above all, when you are colleagues – I think colleagues without a colleague – spoke when you, this gentleman who came from Syria, is quite a hairdresser. You know, maybe sometimes it's better to be a hairdresser than a professor, then a doctor. And here in the National Assembly, you call yourself doing some of the duties you've done in the past. You are all Members or Members of Parliament here. And it is not right that you perform with such addresses. At the time when this was the most topical moment in the country, one person of a woman’s sex – the name and surname I will not say because it was simple and simply asked of me – said from the occasion: “But in Ljubljana you have nothing else to do but talk about a person for days, about just one person? Don't we have enough of our citizens and citizens to talk about anymore?" Here's what I'm going to say. I am not excluding either the coalition or the opposition; you have all actually participated in these discussions and have tightened this story to the point of disability. You know, if I'm completely realistic, I'd say a finger like this. But the president of the government, and the state can't do anything like a man sometimes, can it? As a man – not like, someone said that he was the first official, the first official of the state and so on – and as a man I think that some things are simple and easy to do. You should, this person told me, you should talk more about the problems of workers who have minimum wages, pensioners who have small pensions in order to combine the beginning of the month with the end of the month, you should talk about education, health problems and so on, but you have been turning around for a few days already on this issue, which I mentioned earlier, that I will not repeat. You know, I'm not personally an advocate for a big door for migrants. This mistake was made by one of the presidents of one of the major Western countries who did it and then had major problems. But you know what I'm worried about? Not long ago, I listened to what professions we have in this country and how we will fill it. Finally, they find that in schools, I will now say in construction and some other related schools, we no longer have citizens — because there are more or less men — who would go to these schools and educate themselves in these professions. And the demands, and the needs for these workers are terrible. They're talking about the thousands of workers we'd need for this year and next year. You know, I also think it's rather unfair, it's incorrect, that a price is presented — a thousand 900, and I don't know how many euros, how much a migrant gets. Let's talk about what our country gives him, and talk about what it costs. Look, there are some institutions that are doing this. You know what, I'll give you a comparison. If in this way, like you are calculating, Comrade Grims, if you calculated how much a Member costs, then you would get up to 23,000 euros, somewhere around, but you don't get that much. You get paid, you know exactly how much you get net and how much gross you get; these are not real numbers. And I think it's okay if we talk about real numbers. And there's one more thing. In view of the fact that you also spoke as a lecturer about the fact that once the president of a party had promised a pension – we know who it was – you promised the pension of a thousand euros, you know, it was taken from the context. [[…]] Mr Erjavec spoke if the tycoons have so many and so many euros in their accounts, then it is right for pensioners to have thousands of euros in pensions. I hope that you will support us in this effort with this law, the supplement that we have put on the PIZ-2, that you will also support us and that we will raise the pensioners a little bit in these years in which we also plan to do so. You know what, I also have to tell you that never and never, but I have been for several years, I have not condemned people who have decided that they do not want to participate in the sea in their countries as well. Why would a man have to participate in combat? Why? Is it possible that those who are involved in these matters are not fighting for his ideals? And we all have our beliefs, and I don't think we should be so narrow and hard on this question. I'd say that's what I'd say in closing. As Prlek would say, today we've all been stealing money or pennies together, and for God's sake, it's time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u129	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u130	Thank you. If you can warn the honourable Member who has just spoken and who has expressed a desire to talk about how much a migrant gets, how much it costs and how much it is in the mass to look at the magnetogram of my opening address, he will see that I have spoken about it. I said that the migrant receives €18 per month to cost taxpayers this because of the wrong government policy of €963 per month, and this amounted to $123 million in 2016. And when you also said that you should talk about why workers have low salaries and pensioners have low pensions; see, because they are too taxed, workers have such low wages because then you spend this money in such a way, and therefore, of course, there is no money for a person worth pension. That's exactly what I'm talking about. You can see for yourself. Just look at the magnetogram. That is the essence of this debate today. And, of course, the question of constitutionality and legality. From this point of view, too, how and on what basis a government may favour a foreigner over its own assistance to the necessary citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u131	That was a really nice replica, but unfortunately it was a procedural proposal. I didn't hear him. Mr. Janez Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Every President of the Government, who swears before this National Assembly, utters those famous words from the Constitution in order to respect constitutional order and to work for the well-being of Slovenia. In this particular case, on the basis of which a constitutional charge has been brought against the specific President of the Government, we consider that the President of the Government did not respect the constitutional order and did not work for the welfare of Slovenia. He was in direct violation of several laws. These violations are justified. And after this debate today, it is important to ask whether we live in a country that has a normal Parliament. Here, a constitutional instrument, which has been a constitutional right enshrined in this constitution since 1991, has been declared a minor crime. In the same country where the laundering of EUR 100 million or a thousand million for terrorists in the largest state bank is not considered a crime, but rather a practice. The constitutional charge is also not the worst instrument the opposition can use. It is our duty to use the instruments of the Constitution when we consider it to be a violation, so the opposition is in a democratic state. But it's not the hardest weapon we've heard here a thousand times today. We didn't propose to replace the Prime Minister, we didn't propose a constructive confidant. We suggested that our suspicion that the President of the Government had violated the Constitution should be checked before the Constitutional Court. And there is a need for a two-thirds majority, 6 votes out of 9 to dismiss the President of the Government if the Constitutional Court considers that the Constitution has been violated. Given that in the Constitutional Court there are classmates of the President of the Government sitting there, most of the people that this coalition called I don't know, we wouldn't be so afraid to go before this constitutional court. [[…]] But obviously things are different from what has been said here and the matter is now trying to turn into discrediting the constitutional instrument itself and see, and this has not yet been experienced in this National Assembly – with my colleague Battelli we have been here since the beginning – there have been several constitutional accusations, but that someone would try by the authorities to discredit the right of the opposition to use this constitutional instrument, see, this is the first time we have heard it today. And this in some situation Read for example the performance mentioned earlier – Mr Drnovška, when a constitutional charge was filed for a secret agreement with Israel – and compare it with what he did not say but read earlier, and you will see what the relationship is to respect for constitutionality. [[…]] And while we're at it, the constitutional charge, which was filed at the time because of the secret agreement, could also be filed today. If I am not mistaken, you have some cooperation agreement with Hungary at the second level, which is a secret that we cannot get, but somewhere or should only be obtained by members of a committee, by the fact that Article 154 of the Constitution still applies, the rules must be published before they enter into force. Now that the constitutional charge was at issue, the Constitutional Court ruled that there was no agreement with Israel because it had not been made public. But apparently this lesson from 20 years ago is nothing, and now you have some kind of secret agreement again. Not only that, the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission has discovered that criminal police are using classified rules, secret regulations. After a year and a half, since we've been asking for these regulations, we don't even get them fully on the Supervisory Board. This is the next reason – and the President of the Government is informed of this – about the constitutional charge; a direct violation of the Constitution, in some case that has already gone through a hearing in this National Assembly, which went through a hearing in the Constitutional Court because we have a clear picture. A constitutional charge is possible and would also be justified because you are in violation of the Constitution on the financing of private schools, despite the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is clear. Another reason would be found, which is perfectly legitimate for the opposition to file a constitutional indictment. Therefore, in the absence of arguments in this particular case, it is not possible to make an attempt to discredit the instrument itself. Because you are bringing the level of parliamentary democracy in this country to some level that a country that is a member of the European Union does not deserve. When it comes to this particular case, see those who mention the social situation of pensioners and so on; for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, this is primarily a matter of general social justice. Ahmad does not get a thousand 800 euros in his pocket, but so many euros are taken from the pockets of Slovenian taxpayers. They must contribute to this, those who have 500 euros in pension. Therefore, do not underestimate this question and I expect that in this short term the government will never meet again because of a foreigner, but because of the problems of Slovenian people.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u133	Dr Dragan Matić has the word, and then we will move on to the final part of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government with the Prime Minister's team! John Janša has just accused us of wanting to discredit the institution or instrument of the constitutional charge, but the truth is the other way around. The SDS party has devalued well, not discredited this instrument. It has already been said that, thanks to the SDS, this important protector of democracy has been abused so many times that we can rightly expect Slovenia to come to the book Guinness's Book of Records thanks to the SDS. This instrument is, in today's case, a kind of primitive political propaganda. Not only have we come to the position, thanks to the SDS, that more than 15 and 16% of all these constitutional accusations at world level have happened in Slovenia. There's another championship we can hope for, thanks to them. If we look at the international history of impeachment, we can find that statesmen around the world have been accused of usurping constitutional authority, revealing classified data, sexual scandals, corruption, nepotism, financial scandals and embezzlement. Nowhere has it been necessary for the President to be held accountable for the humanitarian act that is within the framework of law and law. Nowhere until today, when this is a unique case in Slovenia. However, if previously such SDS proposals were at least formally to some extent at an average level, today's proposal has confirmed esdes' misery or inability to follow at least the minimum necessary standards in the composition of the constitutional indictment – this has already been discussed by my colleagues before me, so I will not continue in this direction today. The proposer has somehow forgotten which are the mandatory ingredients that this constitutional charge should have and this — let's say a document — does not have the essentials and is without foundation. This was more than clear and reasoned today. Given that Mr Gorenak presented a proposal for a constitutional indictment the following day after the meeting of the State Summit, which was apparently written in one night, which she knows very well, we can conclude that he is her spiritual father. If we look at Mr Gorenak's references, we see that this was a class teacher who was then reclassified as a militiaman and a young boys' trainer at the Tacno Cadet and later advanced to the lecturer on the management of repressive organs, and it is no wonder that Dr Cerar rejected this proposal for a constitutional indictment so easily. Dr Cerar is a respected constitutional lawyer, one of the authors of the Slovenian Constitution, a regular professor of law, who was elected 16 times in 17 years among the top 10 lawyers in the country. It is therefore understandable that this flawed and disabled proposal for a constitutional indictment by Dr Cerar rejected the points effectively, clearly and justifiably and that he did not have enough to add, because your further questions were completely empty and not substantive. The essence of all Esdees’ work is quite obvious – to try to arouse at least part of the former fear of foreigners, to spread at least a little toxic cranes with a desire to ignite the fire of hatred against refugees. If sometimes the SDS party knew and managed better, they prove the following: "The opinion of Slovenia is that immigrants enrich our society and integrate into our environment a part of the world and culture that would otherwise remain inaccessible to us. It is essential to enable them to participate successfully and to provide them with equal opportunities for work, studies and success in life.” Those words were not spoken by Member Dragan Matić in January 2018, but by SDS Minister Dragutin Mate in January 2008. Instead of a decent pro-European SDS stance on migration policy ten years ago, we have a position today that is identical to the statements made by members of the far right-wing Alternative to Germany, and this is a sad, devastating alternative that we are firmly rejecting both in us and elsewhere in Europe. However, it is a sad proof of how far the SDS party has degenerated in these ten years. In addition to being an official and a politician, President Cerar has shown himself to be a man who has not ceased to be compassionate and considerate of his fellowman. That the President of the Government, in his opinion that further examination of the legal options should be carried out, was right and that the legal options in the case of Ahmad Shamieh were not yet exhausted, the ruling of the Administrative Court is clear. It notes that the application for asylum has not been rejected at all and that the application of the discretion clause is still possible. Let me conclude; in the case of the constitutional charge that we are talking about today, we can find that it is a mockery of democracy and that it is an abuse of the Institute of Constitutional Accusation for political pre-election purposes. This time, the constitutional charge will be remembered in the minds of Slovenian citizens as a stalemate and a school case of how low a political party can fall. The SDS sends its opponents to the history dump instead of arguing in political accounts. By today's constitutional indictment attempt, the SDS has shown that, in fact, with such a mentality, it itself belongs directly to a landfill of a survivor who is not useful for recycling. I mean, it's too toxic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u135	Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u136	Actually, I have a more pressing question for you now, President. I'm asking you what to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u137	Say what you were going to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u138	Yeah, yeah, I will, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u139	Because I don't know your bibliography so that I might have the part that disturbed you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u140	Yeah, yeah, look, Mr. Matić started my elementary school and he finished high school. [[…]] By the way, I did college, master's degree, and my doctorate became a professor, an extraordinary one. [[advertising from the hall]] But with the President of the government, he started college, you know. And now to say such things in such a way that you do not react, President, and these words are meant for you. [[…]] I repeat what I said at the beginning of my term of office: if you are not able to lead the National Assembly, let the Vice-President resign there. You're not capable of that. In fact, you give absolutely, I will say, an advantage to your client colleagues who can do what they want, but, of course, you are wasting your warnings. Look, this is not how the National Assembly is running, and as one of the oldest Members, who are also heading towards the end of the term, I can tell you that there has been no worse between all those pictures. You're not capable. And if you're not capable, it would be better if you let someone else take the lead. We had Mr. Webber. Look, Mr Weber was President, and he was far from my political options, and we had a whole bunch of presidents. And you go in a way that you do something that the President should never do and you should never allow him to do that smudge he did. And with my résumé, which he compared to the Prime Minister, he forgot to say half a thing. Look, President, think about maybe giving up this position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u141	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. My word is not the last word. The last word is given by the proposer, so I probably won't be able to answer many more, I believe, accusations and allegations that I have no doubt that many will be manipulative, unrealistic. However, I believe that the Members and Members of Parliament, from what I have already said in the opening recital and from what I am about to say now, will be able to understand what I have repeatedly pointed out that this proposal for a constitutional indictment is completely and obviously unfounded. Mr Janša has just said, before discussing the duty of the opposition to bring a constitutional charge if there is any suspicion that the Constitution or the law has been violated. Firstly, I believe that there should be some, because if this term is used, the suspicion that is criminally justified, or a very strong reason for suspicion. However, it is also the duty of the opposition to file a constitutional charge, of course to make it responsible to assess whether there are really reasons for using such a strong institution of constitutional democracy, which is really being invested in systems they know, very exceptionally, after many previous studies, preparations, verifications. For putting a leading official in the country — whether it is the American President or any other Prime Minister or the President of the State — before a constitutional charge, this is a very, very responsible act and this responsibility, honourable Members, Members of the SDS, you cannot really overcome. You can't do it. Your proposal, as it were, is completely unfounded. In the first half of the hour, when I answered him from point to point, from a line to a line on your proposal, I rejected him in all respects, proved that no charge within a broader charge stands, no holds and, of course, I also pointed to many surfaces, surfaces. There's a lot of things wrong with the proposal. Instead of referring to the regulation and EU internal law, you are referring to international treaties, wrongly, as explained in the debate, quoting the names of the courts, even in the case of a crime – you have used 6 lines, 6 lines to justify why I committed the crime. In the constitutional charge, you actually accused me of a crime of abuse of position and used 6 lines of text to do so. I'm sorry, this is not a responsible approach, because in this way you couldn't and of course you haven't justified where, when, how, how, how did I commit or carried out the signs of the crime. Of course I didn't, so you didn't have anything to write, but that's just proof of how you handled things. As I said before, the entire constitutional charge has 4 pages; 4 pages of the constitutional indictment of the President of the Government! I will certainly do that – as Mr Gorenak said, which has now left the hall of course – even later, if I ever have the opportunity to teach again, I have mentioned to the students. Perhaps I will even show this accusation as an interesting school case, not in the sense that you, Mr Grims and Mr Gorenak spoke when it is happening really right, forgive the expression, the perverse situation already pointed out by Mr Jani Möderndorfer, when he said that now the wrong-doers here before the Slovenian public are teaching vehemently the professors of law on what is the legality, what is the finality and so on, of course in the constitutional accusation itself, you have clearly, unequivocally wronged yourself in these matters. And of course, the fact that the matter is superficially prepared also proves that it is the representative of the proposer himself, the one representing you 19 Members, that was Mr Mag. Grims, in front of the entire congregation, a respected assembly after Wikipedia, explained, “Look at Wikipedia,” he said, “I will tell you how to understand the legitimacy and finality now.” If you are making such a constitutional accusation that in the middle of the hearing in the National Assembly you have to build it up by reasoning from Wikipedia, then of course I think that every citizen who listens to it and every Member and Member understands where we are. Why is it also irresponsible to file a constitutional accusation? Because this is where you abused this institute. If you really did your duty to have some very serious reasons to do something unconstitutional or illegal, then of course the debate would be completely different, not at the outset of the debate everyone would say that they would not support such a constitutional charge and of course it would be possible to discuss what. You're telling me to answer your questions. Yeah, what else do you want me to say? I responded to all the allegations, which were practically relevant to the constitutional charge. Of course, it was this weakness of yours that led you to bring into the debate other topics: Schengen, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, everything was on the subject. Social justice, yes, some of the themes are partly related to this problem, but you have gone far beyond because you have simply run out of arguments in this area and because, of course, you have misused this issue for a pre-election purpose, it is quite obvious. It is therefore an abuse of the constitutional institution for a pre-election purpose and, of course, a demonstration of how everything else is discussed, only the matter that should be on the agenda, not. Just for example, because I don't have that much time, I'm gonna touch some of those you've set off. For example, Mr Grims said that we are following the Czech Republic, following Hungary’s example of rejecting all refugees or migrants. I think there are many things that we can follow exactly in our friendly Czech and Hungarian countries. Remember, they also came to our aid when we were protecting and controlling the Schengen border. However, exactly in this respect, Mr Grimes, mentioned by you, I do not want to follow these two countries, and I will also say it publicly, here and in Brussels. Because I am advocating European solidarity. I would like to say that if Slovenia, which is smaller than these countries and is more difficult to bear, is working in solidarity with the refugee relocation programme and, of course, the resettlement of refugees – in accordance with its capabilities, of course, because we are very careful – then we must expect this equally from other members of the European Union. And in this is our contribution to the existence of the European Union, because if the European Union is not solidarity, then it will not be. As is the case with the rule of law, which we must also respect, but this is already another context that does not fall into this debate. Regarding Schengen, you mentioned some very serious claims concerning migrants, but then you said that this case, which is being dealt with here – the Ahmad Shamieh case – harms Slovenia as part of the Schengen area. This is an entirely wrong idea for our citizens and citizens who are listening to this debate. For the Members know that you have manipulated, but all citizens may not. Slovenia is a very responsible member of the Schengen area. Slovenia was the first of all countries on the Balkan path to exercise control at the Schengen border, for which we have received a special recognition, including the European Union, and was the first country to show what humanity, solidarity and other values we have advocated, especially security. And the fact that today controls the border between Slovenia and Austria by the Austrian government is something that we constantly criticize; every time again in Brussels, we personally demand that this border control be lifted. But this control is also between Austria and Germany. So, then, does Austria also fall out of the Schengen area? It is also between Denmark and Germany, also between Sweden and Denmark and Denmark and Norway. It's not just here. Does this mean that these countries have all fallen out of the Schengen area? Germany, Denmark, Sweden? Absolutely not. This is a moment in the development of our Union, which is not simple, where we will continue to seek to eliminate this border control, because it is in the interest of the common market, the free movement of goods, people and so on, but in no way - and I must stress this - in no way does Slovenia give up in protecting the Schengen border and in belonging to the Schengen Union, because this is what we say we belong to this most related part of the European Union and we will not give up. And that's why the government's actions don't endanger the Schengen, just the opposite. Our government strongly contributes to the security of the Schengen area. Government authorities, such as the police and others, make a very generous and powerful contribution to this. And we will continue with that. Then there was the obvious, for example, about the unequal treatment of our citizens, foreigners, asylum seekers and so on. First, let me say something very, very clearly that there will be no doubt. You keep talking and talking, trying to improvise, trying to force debate on some first and second-class people, citizens, refugees and so on. I have already rejected this debate here and I reject it completely again. For me as Prime Minister of the Government, every citizen of Slovenia is first and equally valuable. Of course, others of our people, as well as those who come to Slovenia, are as valuable as our citizens in their fundamental rights as human beings. That is why we must be very, very careful here, prudently guided by the policy of human rights protection, ensuring security and ensuring other democratic values. But what you are constantly trying to force us to do – this government has dealt with this man for so many hours and for our citizens does nothing – we work for our citizens every day; my worker is not 10 hours; he is also much longer; he is a minister, ministers and secretaries of state and you. Who do we work for every day, if not for our citizens and citizens first? True, there is also a problem where we deal with an individual — either ours or ours or with anything else — after hours. There's a lot of late-night sessions, too. But the fact that we have also devoted ourselves to this problem of this Mr Ahmad Shamieh shows, above all, that Slovenia remains a normal, humane, democratic, solidarity country. That he also wants to think about it, see if he can help and so forth. Of course, we always respect the rule of law, and I have sworn to that, and that is my basic, fundamental, professional orientation. Indeed, I have participated in the writing of the Constitution, in many of the laws that are now part of our legal system and as a law professor and as a lawyer I will always – and also, when I have entered politics, this was my fundamental objective – to defend the rule of law, respect for the rule of law. That's why it's so much more absurd for you to land so quickly on someone who thinks I'm the one who violated the law that I broke the Constitution and the laws. Because believe me, I know very well and I understand our legal system, and I am very well aware of the importance of respect for the Constitution and the law, and I keep trying – unlike you, I keep trying – for a higher legal and political culture. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] And I don't see it in your language and jumping into words. When it comes to migrants who are asylum seekers, we need to know that these migrants are part of a vulnerable group, such as victims of human trafficking and so on; we have certain vulnerable groups. We also, of course, have vulnerable groups between citizens and citizens of Slovenia, but I will now talk about migrants that there will be no doubt. And the legal system allows for a different decision based on the vulnerability of this group and when it comes to different factual circumstances, this is also in accordance with the principle of equality as set out in Article 14 of the Constitution, the right to dignity as set out in Article 34 of the Constitution and the principles of equality as set out in Protocol 12 to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which allows even positive measures for vulnerable groups. Thus, when it comes to vulnerable groups or individuals within them, cases need to be judged in the light of actual circumstances, taking into account everything, the whole context, and therefore it is impossible to speak in this way, in this way, with another way; each case needs to be examined precisely and individually. When Mr Gorenak debated, I saw a statement on who and when he had ruled in the last ruling of the Administrative Court, mention was made of a name, as Mr Janša said I had a classmate in the Constitutional Court. You see, this is some method I don't approve of. Yeah, it's part of a political discourse, a debate, whatever, but it's constantly impudent: if someone is a friend of mine, a acquaintance or a friend of yours, a acquaintance, there's simply some illegal connection between us, there's some corruption in the background right now, some suspicion. With these constant suspicions, we will not go anywhere in Slovenia. Firstly, I have no classmate, at least I don't know, I don't remember in the Constitutional Court; but it is true that I know most, in fact almost all the constitutional judges from all the mandates, because I worked closely with them. But I've never done anything to affect them unacceptable and they've never done anything like that that I know they'd try to influence me. So, in Slovenia, where there are 2 million of us, there is something very important to understand – we cannot prevent ourselves from meeting people we know, who are related to each other, who have worked together since we are a small society. In France, in the U.S. you can move to the other end of the country, in Slovenia most lawyers have studied in one or two colleges, meet each other daily, even if they are lawyers, prosecutors and judges who have different functions in the proceedings. And so to this discourse that you know as soon as you know someone is related to you or whatever, there's something suspicious about it right now, and I can't land. True, this requires a more firm attitude toward each of us, that we do not yield to temptations, and that I do not yield to temptations. And I expect that this will also prevail in Slovenia as a new mentality, because otherwise we will not be able to coexist. And when you mention the judge, specifically Mr Zalar, this is an example for me of how these matters are not actually being discussed. Last but not least, there were three of them in the Senate who had decided on this matter, not just one that you wanted to impress on him a disputed past or anything. And you see, this is what I don't think is good for the rule of law, for our legal culture, to talk about each other, about the judicial branch of power, about anything. Here, even in such a temple of democracy, we must maintain a dignified attitude. If I go back to a concrete debate on the constitutional charge. The purpose of this debate, the aim of the SDS party's proponents was, of course, - what? – to overthrow me as Prime Minister of the Government in order, of course, to undermine the political stability that we have faced with a great deal of difficulty, but we have consistently and so far been convincingly assured in this country, which encourages many positive processes. For all economic and financial and social indicators are positive, although we still have many challenges ahead. And that means what? You would like to cause unrest in society, to break something again, to start arguing again between you, to start sharpening ideological disputes that you already want to exacerbate at points that are not productive for Slovenia. Ideology is always present in politics. We are all part of the confrontation of various ideologies, but ideological conflicts, even the cultural struggle – or whatever we call it – is inefficient on the points. When it comes to personal conflicts, when it comes to a past from which we have to draw lessons, not to deal with it anymore, but to look forward to our young people, such ideological conflicts are unproductive and you would like to draw us back into this. And if we supported the constitutional charge today, that would be the first step towards such instability. Therefore, I am pleased that I have had the opportunity to urge all of you to show you that the constitutional charge is unfounded. And let me tell you again, you told me, I'm not answering your questions. Listen, my answer, half-life was a few times longer if you wrote it down, like your constitutional accusation. At least three times longer than your constitutional charge was my answer, where I explained from the indent to the indent of why this accusation did not stand. And now we're on one more thing that I'm going to mention myself, it's been mentioned many times. This unrest, what you want to do, brings fear. People then get scared of strangers you demonize, people get scared of governments, and this government is really terrible. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, what's she like, tell me, now that you've heard from her, if you're hoping, tell me! [[advertising from the hall]] And you don't? [[advertising from the hall]] Then why are you answering if you don't hope to the end, and then please, yes, because I can hear you, tell me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u143	Please, peace in the hall so that it may continue [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u144	Yeah, look, if you're hoping to tell me that this government is bad, tell me what kind of government this is. You said [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, so much, so much for your courage. But now I'm gonna say it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Now, of course, you can stop; if you said you wouldn't talk, because your microphones don't work, then listen to me. Fear is man's greatest enemy. The fear of man stirs up, prevents his creativity, prevents him from developing potentials and, of course, those who create a society of fear and then rule it can actually rule in an authoritarian way. People are under control, and we've put it through in our environment in the previous regime, and it's been a long way back, too. Therefore, we should learn from this that we should not want such a society, a society of fear. I will do everything I can – today, tomorrow and anytime in the future, from this city or as a citizen – to ensure that Slovenia does not become a society of fear, but remains a society of freedom and security. Society of Freedom and Security. Of course, there is always some tension between freedom and security [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u145	Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u146	But now you're on to me. Since when do we touch each other, Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u147	Comrade Grimes, colleague Grimes, let's behave with respect!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u148	No, no, he wasn't a colleague of Grims, but the MP in the back just started touching me, so I thought [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u149	My friend Pojbich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u150	May I continue, Mr. President? That is why, of course, I believe that we are capable, we are capable of providing a free and secure society. Last but not least, our government proves this and I hope and I believe that we will be able to prove this again and again in the future – as in Europe, the European Union and the wider part of Europe. Today's debate was, in fact, more than a debate on the constitutional charge of the debate on the future of Slovenia, the honourable Member and Members. What we experienced today in this debate were two perceptions, two ways of understanding what our society was supposed to be. One is the one who promotes fear, cramps, the domination of one another, and the other is the one that I support and also, I believe, many others – I believe that almost everyone – who are actually striving for human rights, human dignity, which is actually the basis of this and also for the rule of law. At the same time, for green Slovenia, development, sustainable development and all the other things that we will of course try to implement in the future. I have been acting today as Prime Minister of the Government and I am still in this role as a lawyer as well as a human being. And I believe that the President of the Government must always take account of all these components in his work. The world is neither black nor white, the world is a rainbow and the whole spectrum of colors needs to be taken into account in political and social life, so it is so important that we do not go unilaterally in one direction or another. However, there is something I want to say: that, in my personal deep conviction, politics must first be only human. Only this qualifies him to be truly democratic and attached to the ideals that our constitution also advocates. Let me conclude slowly, because this debate today has shown that there are not many things that we should talk about, because the constitutional charge is modest in scope, superficial, as I said, groundless in the arguments. In short, we could really conclude in a much shorter time that this accusation is entirely unfounded. However, it is very important that we are aware that respected SDS-type proponents to point their finger at others just to cover up something with you, your own ingenuity or mistakes, only works for a while. Sooner or later, things come out the way they are. Whenever someone does that, they come on the plane for a long time. For example, if you allow anything else. By the way, Mr Janša brought into this debate just as he discussed the agreement with Hungary. He was talking about the charges against the Prime Minister, who of course would not be successful – I am talking about the motion for an indictment – and then he also said that this government had a secret agreement with Hungary. This is a typical example of deceiving. This is, of course, a complete lie, Mr Janša. We have no agreement with Hungary. We are talking about the second track, which, of course, you are blocking — this process — we are talking about concluding an interstate agreement with Hungary, which will be concluded here, in the National Assembly — public, transparent as far as possible. And we are currently discussing at government levels the starting points for how such a draft agreement could be drawn up. And when we can confirm the starting points in the government – and believe me, the government will do it responsibly – we will come up with some text in the National Assembly, with a proposal of such an interstate agreement. And then you will be Members and Members of Parliament in public, through normal procedure, either accept such a procedure or reject it. I hope and I believe that you will accept it because it is one of the most important projects in our history, that is the second track, but it will be your judgment. And now to say that we have some secret agreements, it's not true. But this creates a show: this government is doing something behind the scenes, this government is corrupt, this government doesn't hold it, none of it holds it. [[...]] And in this way we do not benefit anyone – not the opposition, not the coalition, but even less the citizens. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to end this, because there is no point in continuing this unnecessary debate. Once again, I would like to point out that, in my opening remarks, everything is recorded on the tape, I have rejected all the specific charges from the entire constitutional charge, and I insist. No argument was put at odds with me, I did not act unconstitutionally, I did not act unlawfully, nor unlawfully at all. But I did something that I thought was human. Not only for this man, because it is in my opinion in the interest of Slovenia, in the interest of all of us, that we can show that we can also be good, solidarity – what our citizens and citizens show many times – but at the same time I have always respected the rule of law, namely the Constitution, laws and other regulations. So, honourable Members and Members, as I have said in the introductions, I propose that you reject the proposal for a constitutional indictment and that this painful debate, in fact, ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u151	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. To point to others, as Mr President of the Government has just used the term, is something that actually marked this day if you look at it from the side. For the chronic proof that this constitutional charge is justified, that the law has been broken, that the constitution has been broken, and that all that is done is that people do not see it is today's media event. Today, after 14 days, the media suddenly discovered that he was somewhere, be careful, a loan was publicly published 14 days ago and this is the main topic in the media. They do not wonder whether the President of the Government has violated the law, whether it is equality before the constitution and the law to obtain one illegal migrant who enters the country, so much money and so much credit, and all that it costs the Slovenian taxpayers EUR 963 per month, while the Slovenian worker works for EUR 700 per month and the Slovenian pensioner lives with 600 euros. At that time, I received a warning from one lady that I should warn the Government that there are also those who live only 320 euros a month, because for certain reasons they could not apply the whole pension. But these are things the government doesn't deal with. She's working with Ahmad Shami. And today we hear that the greatest achievement of this government is, be careful, political stability. No one, Mr President, is more concerned with the political stability of Slovenia and the European Union than those that have lifted up prisoners and released into Europe a wave of illegal migrants, in particular half a million illegal migrants from radical Islam across Slovenia, which has tarnished the foundations of the European Union as a whole and has caused such political instability, Mr Cerar, that even brexit has taken place on this basis. With all my responsibility, I can say that brexita without this wave of illegal migrants would not have been, because the same vote had already been carried out by the English a few decades ago and at that time two thirds of the people were against it. And even today and at a time before that, there was a different mood. At that time this coincided, and this instability, this political instability in the European Union, which has occurred because some of them did not respect the rule of law of the European Union and their own countries, has caused the European Union to fall apart if we use the right term. And we can be very sad that it is. It's a project that has cost a whole generation of people and many people's dreams. You were talking about European solidarity. What this European solidarity is, I would really like to know. But this is that some governments have actually driven illegal migrants across the Mediterranean, even with their own army, and when they had all the hotels — and some of them have made a fantastic profit and some NGOs have greatly enriched — and then they have said yes, and now, on behalf of solidarity, we demand that this be distributed throughout Europe? Is it European solidarity that no external European borders have been defended with all the resources available? And this should be done, this is a duty, a responsibility to the security of all citizens and citizens of the European Union. And after illegal migrants have entered the territory of the European Union, it is said, yes, but now you are all obliged to accept it, including those who did not agree in this way. Is that European solidarity? There is a calculation of professors, even from Oxford now, which proves that the funds spent on an illegal migrant in the European Union area could help 100 or even 120 people in the areas where these people come from. That would be real help, that would be real solidarity. What is happening now is, of course, a political invoice and political projects driven by interests and money. And you're talking about migrants as a vulnerable group. Look, in Slovenia we had refugees 20 years ago, yes, from the former Yugoslavia. At the time, I was SDS's secretary-general, but Mr Janša was the defence minister, and there was no problem. And there were 70 thousand in Slovenia and no one protested because they were really refugees from vulnerable groups. Who are the vulnerable groups? Older, children, mothers with children, these are vulnerable groups. Who comes to Europe as a migrant? In the first waves there were virtually no other than 18 to 40 years old to fight capable men, young men. Families — including Ahmad Shamieh — were, of course, left where they were supposed to flee to save their own lives. Excuse me, from the point of view of humanity, who believes in integration and loyalty to the new homeland of those people who did not have enough loyalty to their own children to defend them and take them with them if they were already forced to save their lives? Ask yourself who is coming to Europe and who is really a vulnerable group. With all due respect to all those women, from Iran, where they are today recording the hijabs that European women are lightly wearing on their own, including the Slovenian European Commissioner, when they are visiting people in the field of radical Islam and there they are filming them out of protest, and of course all honour to those women who have also defended and liberated their homeland with weapons. They deserve European solidarity. Now, what has this government actually done? When it was time we warned you that a fence should be set up, that then you didn't need any worse resources, you made a fool of yourself, you said, we changed it all, it's all under control, what you're saying, scaring people. That's when you used the exact same expression, you know that? Then there were half a million illegal migrants across Slovenia. Today you set up certain fences and stand. The prospect is, according to many predictions, the possibility of further waves; at least a dispersed stream will certainly exist for a long time. And interestingly enough, the one who is supposed to be the savior and savior after your departure from the next election is promoted by explaining that even these fences need to be removed immediately. And it turns out that he is more a lion than the current left-wing government, according to the principle that if we have too much socialism, let us solve this by introducing more socialism. Or as I said before, Murphy's marriage of left-wingers — the natural development of things from bad to worse. I only hope that this opens the eyes of people to understand what this is about; it is a matter of security, but it is also a matter of genuine solidarity, but of solidarity between Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to their own citizens. That's really what this is about. Because you asked if there were any grounds for interpretation. Look, if they weren't, that media spin that I mentioned earlier wouldn't be necessary, you wouldn't have to divert public attention, but now all the madman's media would be working for unjustified reasons for interpolation, and of course they won't even allow it in their dreams, because it's perfectly clear here. In accordance with the legal order, the President of the Government, in a legal, definitive and enforceable decision of the administrative procedure – which has survived this and has been confirmed in all instances of the courts, is said to have been confirmed by the judiciary, including the Supreme Court, and in the end Ahmad Shamieh's appeal has been rejected at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia – no right to intervene in such a decision. It's an overstatement of powers. What we have heard today is that it was the government’s supervisory function and the like. What does that have to do with anything? It was a political action by four members with media pressure, and unfortunately, despite his exceptional legal knowledge, the President of the Government fell for it. According to local terms, the SD also wanted to promote itself in this way as the party that is the solution to the problems of the current government, but in fact, it is an integral part of the problem, not a solution to the problem posed by the current left-wing government. But I don't understand the Prime Minister that this is how he could have gotten his hands on it. When you try to deny that you have tampered with this process in an improper way, you ignore that you are alone in a public statement – this is an official statement – you wrote that you have decided to stop the process of returning to Croatia. End of story, this is literally a confession of guilt. In this way, such a procedure must not be affected; it was already the beginning of the relocation procedure. And to refer to what we've been listening to all day to stories about solidarity; what's wrong with Croatia? Slovenians pay to go to sea or on vacation, but Ahmad Shamieh would be transferred to Croatia at the expense of taxpayers to take care of him and decide on his requests. What's wrong here? What's the problem here? Did something threaten him? Absolutely absolutely nothing. So why was it such a political bust and noise, except that SD wanted to drink the last drop of SMC's blood as a vampire, and unfortunately, Mr President of the Government, you didn't understand what was going on. One wonders what is wrong with this Ahmad Shamieh, for you all say he has been so well integrated. How, from what end, I don't know. But look, once again I say what I did before: don't talk about the successful integration of people who leave their own children in a dangerous area. That's a pretty weird story. What is doubtless, then, is that powers have been exceeded, which, of course, is also a crime, just as a crime is a crime if it is abandoned by acts of duty or makes it possible to do so, as was the case with half a million illegal migrants whom you have released across the border of Slovenia and among them some who were later involved in terrorist acts. Those who, by their own misbehavior, make it possible to commit a crime have also committed a crime. That's what he's learning, by the way, no matter how much you've been acting like a fool before. I used that case only because it is a fundamental legal principle such as the inviolability of an administrative decision which is irrevocable by function and must be because it is the foundation of the rule of law. However, the exceptions allowed by the law are, of course, terribly limited. And that's what all of you who are professors of constitutional law or you're working on very well. [[…]] This is only if, for example, there are some exceptional circumstances that should be known at the time of the decision, but it was not then and therefore is permissible to resume the procedure and so on. However, it is by no means permissible to take one political action and therefore intervene in the process. On the contrary. That's just the most obvious example of the fact that it was a violation of authority, in the sky screaming, you were making a fool of yourself when I said it was on Wikipedia. Yeah, well, I also said that it's in the textbook you recommend or give it to your students. You didn't make a fool out of this? The same sentence is in there, at least from memory, I think it's exactly the same. So much for that. This is a fundamental legal principle, so this is an example. So basic that we have nothing to say here at all. There's a clear point here, and there's nothing to deny. And you know it. Another thing that opens up today's debate is that we do not really just decide to violate the administrative procedure. Today we decide a lot of things. Whether or not it is constitutionally permissible for different criteria to apply. Whether it is constitutionally permissible for a foreigner to get certain things without problem and be allowed to do so without problem more than his own citizens. It is my responsibility to state that not every double criterion, that each double application of the law — one for one another, one for the other — is unconstitutional. This is one of the fundamental constitutional principles. We decide what is, in fact, the right, permissible and real solidarity after the constitution. With full responsibility, I say that solidarity is that, if the Government or any other state authority, Parliament, we are all helping those citizens and citizens who for objective reasons cannot take proper care of themselves. It is totally unacceptable, however, that someone who has broken the law repeatedly costs Slovenian taxpayers thousands of EUR 963 per month after the findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, while the employees live with 700 euros of wages and the pensioners with 600 euros, and some, as I mentioned earlier, with much less. This is totally unacceptable. This, of course, is no longer solidarity, but it is false solidarity, which has also been reflected in the conduct of the Government, for which you are personally responsible, because by law you are responsible for the functioning of the Government, for coordination, for policy-making. The government met to look for the possibility of blocking the legal relocation of Ahmad Shamieh, i.e. a legal and final and enforceable administrative decision approved by the judiciary, even with the highest instances. However, she did not meet to seek, for example, solutions for veteran wars for Slovenia, which were thrown out of apartments, for Slovenian families with children who were confused only last year by official data more than a hundred from apartments. She did not meet when some of the chickens were running out, and one of them even froze, but there were dozens of cases they knew about in the hospital. These are obviously unconstitutional things, and they should be sufficient for you to make a constitutional accusation. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, this constitutional charge is justified. And since we're talking about concrete solidarity within Slovenia, of course citizens and citizens as taxpayers are paying it through too much taxes, that's why they're so low wages, and because of the fact that money is spent on such things, it's being cut short for the pensions of people who have been building this country for 40 years, it's an extremely important topic, it's an essential topic for further development. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u153	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. No, no, no. More? Please, if you are going to have a discussion like this, that is, if the President of the Government of Dr Miro Cerar and the representative of the Magi's proposer will also report to the debate. Branko Grims, you will receive the word as the last, first the President of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. [[…]] I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Dusan Radič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u154	Thank you very much. If I would like to sum up today's debate, I can't think of anything but a word of impotence. In other words, impotent impeachment. What's impotence, you can look at Wikipedia. Comparatively, Impeachment is defined as solely responsible for serious violations of the Constitution and laws. It is therefore not a matter of identifying political responsibility. The Constitutional Charge is not an instrument of political assessment or political debate or of evaluation of various policies – not least of the valuable judgments – but rather a legal means of determining individual responsibility for specific and proven serious violations of the Constitution and the law. Let me add again, that's not Wikipedia. On the four sides of the written constitutional indictment is the mockery of the constitutional charge; not only on the charge, but also on the intelligent quota of Members and Members and all present here. When the proposer of one of Slovenia's most respected lawyers, who also participated in writing the Constitution itself, if I am not mistaken, even exclusively in the article on the constitutional charge, begins to interpret laws and constitution, all of this reminds me of the ball game between Olympia and Zarica from Kranj. Judge Damir Skomina. In the middle of the second half, the reserve player Zarice Kranj, in his opinion, begins to protest heavily and interpret the basics of the football trial. Scomina just smiles and doesn't show him a yellow card. Victory of the Olympics with the goal of this spare player. Mr Gorenak mentioned in today's debate that in Slovenia there is money at stake, and then his SDS rents a loan in Republika Srpska. How can this happen to the greatest Slovenians among all Slovenes? How the hell did the coaches do it? Tomaž Mayer will be crying at least until the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u155	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u156	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Minister's Team, President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! I also have to say that after today's long debate, I'll say it in Korean, quite vaguely. Whoever's been reading the Autopsy knows what that means. It's basically a martnik device where someone's torturing someone. And in fact, I had this feeling that it was some kind of fictional story that was directed just for pre-election purposes, so that the good results of the government of Mir Cerar would in fact in some way get in the wrong light or in any way discredit the government. From this point of view, I believe that this constitutional charge is completely irrelevant, including its justification. I'm not a lawyer, but I could easily see that it was very modestly written, which the Prime Minister of the Government easily refused, so even the opposition silenced at his last performance. So here I would just like to repeat this, to draw some topics back to the plan around the refugee crisis, but we forget that Mira Cerar, as Prime Minister of the European Union, was the first to point out the problem in the European Union, that the problem must be solved at the source of the crisis, and I think we can all acknowledge here that, as Prime Minister of one of the smallest countries in the European Union, he was the only one who opened the issue and started to solve matters in the right way. Let's not forget what the president said. He's human, politics is also human. Let's forget about academic titles or anything, but I think our Prime Minister of the Government has also shown the wideness and sense of the man who was in trouble in this case. And I find it funny, odd that he just asked the question of how to solve something, then it wasn't realized at all, and there's a constitutional accusation. So I think that's perfect nonsense. I will, of course, entirely reject this constitutional accusation, vote against it and wish the Government and the President to continue to work successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u157	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u158	Dear President, thank you very much. Given the fact that I am not a puritan myself, of course I am also aware that MEPs in their debates have somehow made their debates more general so that they can make a point. In today’s debate, I feel that there have been some strangeities that have not been experienced by an epilogue, and I feel it is appropriate to put a certain point on them. As regards the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was raised by Members of the New Slovenia and the SDS, it concerns the financing of private schools. The Government has drawn up an appropriate proposal for a law referring to this decision of the Constitutional Court. This was also confirmed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The complicated decision itself and the law itself did not happen in the government, but in this national assembly, where there were some quasi invisible, left-right coalitions that were trying very hard to bring the law down, just so as not to get into the closet so openly – as Mr Grims says – Standhal's toy is called a toy fight between the reds and blacks. The law did fall because many Members, including the parliamentary groups, kept figs in the pocket of this law, but it certainly was not the Prime Minister of the Government. I also cut my ears on something, and there was no answer to that today, which is very interesting. And that is that Mr Gorenak spoke today about the violence that has also been suffered, not only by him, but also by the Members of this esteemed National Assembly. However, I think that we have been subjected to violence by Members from Mr Gorenak, when he performed it I cannot say otherwise than chauvinism in the position of the Group of Members, when he told the SMC Group's leader that it would only make it less harsh, because it is only a woman. At this point, I wonder what would be the other way around. Would you like to sing your fists, accidentally drop your cells? Mr Gorenak tried to wrap his performance into some kind of multifaceted gentlemanship and some courtesy; of course he failed, because both I and Mr Gorenak know very well that the argument can only be good or bad, but there is no gender. And in this sense, I also expect Mr Gorenak to apologize to Mrs Kustec if he gives anything to gentlemen and to politeness. Not Kustec, speaking of some kind of bonton. However, what seems important to me to say about the proposal for a constitutional indictment itself, is that, of course, I suppose Mrs Kustec will not experience an apology, as it is not likely that the President of the Government of the SDS Group, given that they have tabled a proposal for a constitutional indictment which is groundless in all the statements put forward and based solely on the political calculations of the upcoming elections. That is true, the fact that in fact the SDS remains completely alone today and that, of course, it also did not assist them in their act usually, under the terms of the so-called Sister New Slovenia. However, I fully agree with the President of the Government, who today said that today's debate is actually a matter of context or a concept. I fully agree with this because, in a global world where the value of human life is completely shattered, instead of some appropriate political practices, the walls among the people are growing in the global world. And today we are dealing with a political pamphlet, I can't say anything else, a constitutional accusation where the citizen, the Prime Minister of the Government, showed a human face. I personally do not want to live in a society where such political accounting and the distortion of some civilisational values are actually acceptable and I do not want to live in society, nor do I want to live in such a society by my children, fellow citizens, so today, as I say, I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u159	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good evening, everyone! I have given my time to colleagues who are legally more subdued, but if the situation has already made it possible, I will be very happy to say some of my thoughts. Mr Ahmad Shamieh has brought great happiness twice. Probably his parents first because he was born, and the second SDS, when he became their starving bone. It has also happened twice that the main SDS speakers have dissected the tweet of the Prime Minister; they are trying to present it as burdensome evidence but have failed and have decided to legally prosecute the Prime Minister of the Government precisely those who admire the slalom driving of their leadership through the core of legislation and the avoidance of the rule of law. The law is clear, they say when it suits them, and the laws can be interpreted differently if, of course, they do so. Five times there were meetings of the committee or the main sessions, at which it was mentioned why glass-ceramic plates were bought for the installation of migrants, and I was restrained. But I must say, there is no other stove plate today to buy at a favourable price than these. And that's why there's glass ceramic plates. I'm glad you skipped the soap questions today, perfume soap. Why is it being bought? Because it's cheaper than a medical one that's more expensive; it's perfumed. And in order for this show to be perfect, I think that I must also mention the debate of my colleague, who did not translate any empathy for the drama of this man or the drama of others like him, but on her dress is printed a number of words of English transcription of love, “love”. So the show is really perfect. However, the actions of the President of the Government were and are legally permissible and, as he himself said, are also commanded. That's why I think it's right for all of us to say yes to support his actions. And I like the point made by my colleague, who says, ironically, that we are proud of his speech. I have to say, I'm really proud, and after my first opening speech, I thought it couldn't be better. After all, I can see that it can be even better. And unlike your constitutional accusation, which will go to the analies of another history, I think this speech will probably go to the textbooks of the constitutional law of Europe of the future, [[Laughing in the hall]] progressive Europe. And that would also make a statement against such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u161	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u162	To conclude, I think it showed very nicely how the coalition would have done much more wisely if we had kept quiet and voted quickly. You used to talk when there were no arguments, and then there was a foolish mockery, and you made it perfectly clear. You were talking about a direct story. Yes, good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Who directed it? They directed it by coming to Parliament with Mr Škoberne, who, by the way, is your partner in the coalition, and Mr Kordiš. At the press conference, Mrs Murgel also joined and expressed solidarity. That's what they say. The whole left was a good part of it. That's what you say when you talk about directing, you direct it yourself and no one else. What is our constitutional task? If we notice that something is wrong, that something is obviously against the law, if something is wrong, if something is unethical, that we should make this public, and that we should also implement those constitutional instruments that the Constitution provides for such things; in this case, this is a constitutional charge. You're talking about these and other impotences, I suppose, based on your own experience. But look, if there's anything you can tell leftist governments, all in a row right now, it's a developmental impotence, and it's the one that really hurts this country. It is only now that little development has begun, but of course it reflects the increased export of our entrepreneurs to partner countries where there is very large economic growth. And we can only ask God that it lasts for a long time, because this economic growth is therefore not based on government policy, but on extremely good and hard-core Slovenian entrepreneurship. Or to understand, entrepreneurs in Slovenia succeed despite such a government policy, despite excessive taxation, because they are so capable people, not because of you. You were talking about – you are the subject of the principles now – glass ceramic plates and LED televisions that it is cheaper. This would be very interesting to explain to everyone in Slovenia, I would very much like to monitor this conversation, especially to all of them, I think that one 50, 60% of families, which obviously does not have it, do not have Slovenian families in their apartments. But you forgot to mention that there was a call: there were also leather seats, as far as I remember. Now, I want you to convince me that leather seats are cheaper, and that will also be very interesting to hear, this is your explanation. And when we return to the political stability mentioned earlier and to European solidarity, you work for the citizens – this was the statement of the Prime Minister of the Government. It's just a question of which, ladies and gentlemen. In this country, extremely much, if we talk only about citizens, money is given to various quasi-culturers to burn some monument tragically dead in a mass accident at sea, which is an artistic act, or to take the name of someone and make a fool out of it for long and long, and after, it is an artistic act. It's a crime, ladies and gentlemen, by the way. And for that they get millions, hundreds of thousands of euros from the state budget, which you, with your excessive tax policy, take to taxpayers from their pockets, from their wallet. And every month you reach deeper into it, you constantly predict new and new taxes and higher taxes, because unfortunately you don't know the other. It was a great example of how now in culture a commission will distribute, who will be able to buy something of this stupidity; it is really socialism couple excellence and therefore we have problems and more socialism is offered as a cure. And in the end, there are completely unacceptable differences — and in the beginning, because it is an alpha and an omega of your policy. Unacceptable differences when you favour a foreigner over your own citizen, when you give credit to someone who comes to Slovenia and just declares himself a god knows what; even if they find him at the break-in, I demand the right to asylum, and the process runs out. Such a door must be shown as quickly as possible, but if any law has to be amended to do so, it must be proposed today, yesterday. This is a policy that is responsible to its own citizens, and this is the policy that we would want, so we would rightly expect that it is always its own citizen, owning it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u163	I'm closing the debate. The decision on the draft decision will take place in 15 minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes. I therefore interrupt the 1st item of the agenda and 53rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue by voting in 15 minutes, that is at 20.20.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u164	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: item 1 and 2 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjournment of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for an indictment by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the law On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Article 190 relating to the 192nd Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will decide on the proposal for a decision to charge the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the law. That proposal for a decision received by you 4. 12. 2017 and published on the website of the National Assembly, it is prepared on the basis of a proposal for an indictment of the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jožet Tank of 15. 11. 2017. The proposal for a decision contains a description of the reported violation of the Constitution and of the violation of the law, the evidence of manifest violations and the statement of the authorised representative of the National Assembly, who will represent the charge before the Constitutional Court. I would point out, however, that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 63 concerning Article 66 of the Constitutional Court Act, the majority of all members of the assembly should vote in order to adopt that decision, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u165	Of course, we will support this proposal for a constitutional indictment. This has been further encouraged by the last performance by the President of the Government of Mr Cerar. Instead of actually responding to the evidence contained in the text itself, he accused the applicants of sowing fear. Yes, who, Mr. Cerar, has already closed the leader of the opposition before the last elections and then stolen the elections? Who sows fear in this country, who protects the criminal police, who work under secret rules, as in a one-party regime? What client here works in a stolen villa owned by a dead Jew's holocaust? Who protects those who have allowed and prevented the investigation of thousands of millions of money laundering from Iran for terrorists? Is that possible with the opposition? The constitutional charge is justified not only for the reasons put forward, but also for what took place in this mandate and what constitutes an eccentric violation of the Constitution. From failure to comply with decisions of the Constitutional Court to a number of illegal practices, which we have warned against and have invested in interpretations that you have rejected with a voting machine, you have, of course, kept your problems to yourself, and perhaps today a lot of people want to vote differently. Well, perhaps the fear of the Prime Minister is justified. If someone steals an election, he's probably afraid the next one's gonna get a ticket. And this one's getting closer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u166	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 52. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 52.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and therefore the procedure for the motion for an indictment is closed. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the post of Vice-President and on the appointment of a Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. The proposal was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that, in the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, ends the function of Vice-President, Mr Janko Webr, an unrelated Member, and as Vice-President is called Mag. Bojana Muršič, Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of members of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. The government is 13. 12. 2017 She proposed to the National Assembly that the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition for Members be appointed by Dr Aleš Kuhar, Mr Franz Pušenjak and Mrs Karl Pinter. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, for an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u167	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Before you is the proposal for the appointment of three members of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, which was adopted by the proposing Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 160th regular meeting on 13 December 2017. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 12b of the Prevention of Competition Act, members of the Board of the Agency shall be appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As three members of the Agency's Council passed a five-year mandate in December, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia issued a public call to interested candidates. On the basis of the conduct of the selection procedure and taking into account the criteria of expertise and competence, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to appoint members of the Board of the Agency for a period of five years, Dr. Aleš Kuhar, Franz Pušenjak and Mag. Carlo Pinter. All three proposed candidates meet all legal conditions for members of the Council, and all three proposed candidates are also professional and qualified persons in the field of the work of the Agency. Dr Aleš Kuhar and Mr Franz Pušenjak have already performed the duties of AVK Council member, which undoubtedly proves that they are well-known for the work of the Agency and the Council of the Agency and for the protection of competition. Mag. Karla Pintar is the Head of Legal Services at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, he is aware of the area of competition law, he is involved in drafting legislation in this field and government materials relating to the knowledge of the competent authorities regarding the functioning of the Agency. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to support the proposal and appoint Dr. Aleš Kuhar, Franz Pušenjak and Mag. Carlo Pinter for members of the board of the agency for a period of five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-01-09-SDZ7-Izredna-53.ana.u168	The Government's proposal was treated by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Don't you? Then we're done with the presentations, we're done with the debate. Before we go to the vote on the proposal for conclusions, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Article 12(b) of the Competition Prevention Act, each individual decision will be adopted if it is voted on by a majority of the Members present. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Dr. Aleš Kuhar as a member of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Franc Pušenjak as a member of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 52 in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Karle Pinter for a member of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. I also conclude the 53rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Tomorrow is the end of parliamentary holidays.
