ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 62nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Marija Bačič, Vlasta Počak, Ksenija Rootjak Kramar, Irene Grošelj Kosnik, Marusha Škopac by 13:00, Urška Ban by 17:00, Andreja Potočnik by 13:00, Violeta Tomić by 11 a.m., mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar until 13:00, Iva Dimic, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec from 13:00 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek, Franc Laj, Matjaž Germany from 14:00 p.m., Matjaž Han from 17.30 p.m. (after the vote, in terms of all that, I read only this list which they have delivered to me) Primaj Hainz until 13:00 p.m. and from 17:00 p.m. on, Ivan Škodnik, mag. Aleksander Kavčič, Marko Ferluga, Branko Zorman, Saša Tabaković from 7.30 p.m. to 13.30 p.m., Igor Zorčič from 13 p.m., Dr. Lazslo Göncz from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Peter Wilfan, Franz Jurša to 13 p.m., Benedict Kopmajer, Ivan Hršak to 13 p.m., Uroš Prikl to 13 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. FRANK TRUCK FROM 14 A.M. AND MIHA KORDISH. If I've read any of those who are present now, I apologize to him, but that's how it was reported on official routes. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. All present, read and read, I welcome you. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 62nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 20 April 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose to the Assembly that the agenda of the 62nd Extraordinary Session be extended by the following point: 1. It's a matter of time. You received the proposal 25. 4. 2018 and published on the e-club. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye to your colleagues. This is a matter of concern to our Group of the Modern Centre Party. Ambassador Tanja Cink has informed us that she is returning her term of office because she has received a second job early, and it is quite a while before the end of her term of office, and that we will be able to act fully as we say we would like to know her resignation today. If possible, then also today to confirm the new alternate Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u3	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 48, 2 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The electoral extension will be considered as item 2 of the agenda, as set out in the course of the meeting of the assembly. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 62nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of the House of State, mag. Tanji Zink. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that I am a member of the Magi. Mr Tanja Zink 23 April 2018 in writing informed that he resigned from the function of Member of the National Assembly. I'm guessing it's a mag. Tani Cink shall terminate the term of office of the Member with effect from 26 April 2018, in accordance with the sixth subparagraph of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly of which candidate or candidate will become a Member or Member of the Parliament in accordance with Article 17 of the Electoral Law for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated its term of office. On the basis of a notification from the National Election Commission, the Mandate-Electorial Commission will prepare reports and propose approval of the mandate and report on its findings to the assembly. Allow me, on behalf of all of us, to thank my distinguished colleagues very much for my work so far and to wish her much success in further work. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is the final report of the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the determination of the causes and the liability for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia. The final report was submitted to the meeting by the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the identification of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone. The report, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 22 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, also includes a separate opinion from the member of the Board of Inquiry, Mr Janko Vebra. The final report is public and will be considered by the assembly at a public meeting. The final part is also an additional final report which contains the continuation of the essential findings and is marked by the degree of “bank secrecy” under Article 125 of the Banking and Business Secret Act. In addition to the publicly available final report, the Commission also prepared the final report on the first non-disclosure version and the final report, the second non-disclosure version, which takes into account the protection of personal data, since they are marked by the degree of “banking” under Article 125 of the Banking Act or the degree of confidentiality “confidential”. In view of the above, the final report will be the first non-public version of the final report, the second non-public version, and the additional final report and the continuation of the essential findings of the supplementary final report, which will be considered at a closed meeting for the public today, 30 minutes after the adjournment of this item in the public part of the meeting. I ask all the discussers not to mention in the public debate the first non-public version of the final report, the second non-public version of the final report, the additional final report and the reaction of former Prime Minister Borut Pahor, because all these documents are not available to the public. We are moving on to a debate on the publicly available final report, the main findings set out in it, and on the proposal for a decision and the amendment of Dr Anjet Logar to the draft decision to be taken in public. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr Anjet Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u4	Your Honor! Almost three years ago, we set up a banking investigation commission here in the National Assembly. I've only been president for two years and 10 months. Let me refresh the words with which some of you have accompanied the establishment of this commission in this Chamber. Jani Möderndorfer, then under the trademark of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, taught us this: “I say that I hope to predict what the interim or final report will be if this happens, which I do not believe. It won't work. Such a commission will not produce any results; the matter is still doomed to failure. We will not simply vote for such a commission." Mr Jurša, Head of the Desus Group: "Of course, we are asked a question, mainly because a number of investigative commissions have already been established in this national assembly and the results have not been positive in most cases." Does Mr Han as Head of the SD Members: "Just because of the many past manoeuvres on the political floor of the proposal, it is not possible to look uniformly as well-intentioned actions to unite Slovenian politics so as to avoid the omen of re-sharing into ours and yours." If I add to this the fact that, at the beginning of the Commission's operation, the District Court in Ljubljana was finally set up, believe me, it was not easy. The Investigative Commission has managed to seize over 300,000 pages of first-class classified banking documentation, which in many cases enables the reconstruction of individual credit transactions. We believe there are also documents that the prosecutors have not yet had access to. Therefore, the Commission of Inquiry also points out, during the final conclusions, that copies of the entire documents seized are transmitted to the law enforcement authorities. Keep this in mind when deciding whether or not to confirm the final report. Before we went into the investigation, in private conversations with individuals in the banking sphere, I received good advice when I did not want to get too involved in this task that we would not be able to discover anything, because bankers were not so stupid as to break internal rules or laws that they always worked “by the book”. Are they? The report, which is confirmed today, describes in detail the bad banking practices on 550 pages only in the largest NLB and NKBM state banks. In violation of internal rules, regulatory decisions, the Banking Act, the Banking Act, was negligent to the detriment of the bank and to the benefit of third parties. Untiring and breathless, of course, even at the highest level. Those of you who have read this report in detail today know that bankers have not been the saving experts in whose decisions there is no doubt, and that the bank hole is not only the result of external factors and the free enterprise judgment, but is in the middle of a more logical explanation. It was a typical case of large-scale banking crime. Formerly respected and respected bankers are all as blameless as ever. They're up to the elbow in marmalade, some of them up to and over. We have processed 22 specific cases of banking crime in detail. In doing so, we rightly wonder where Slovenia would be today if the bank robbery of the century were prevented. The EUR 5 billion we have earmarked for the rehabilitation of the banking system represents an annual average gross salary for as many as 240 000 Slovenians by paying all taxes and contributions and creating added value. What a boom Slovenia would be experiencing today if these funds could be allocated to new jobs or for this money, but the country could cancel the collection of income for five years. In other words, our gross salary for five years could become almost net wages, with deducted social contributions of course. We could afford more, more life, more services, more goods. They would pay VAT and return to the state budget. We'd all profit. Thus, bankers have wasted their assets without the citizens having any of it, except that we were robbed for a decade of development. We can be justifiably angry. Keep this in mind, whether you decide whether to leave the bank hole in the past or whether we should be tirelessly looking for those responsible for the bank hole. Believe me, after three years of seeing hours and hours, I can explain and present individual cases, but I'd rather do so by criminals. Allow me to point out just a few cases, otherwise officially hypothetical. You have ever wished that, despite your pension, for example, 500 euros could afford a million-euro loan in a way that would not pay interest, but that the whole amount of cash plus interest would only be paid at the end, and that information would be supported by the bank, even if you do not repay the loan, the bank does not provide for a warning procedure or a late payment, even more so, the failure to pay is not realized on the list of unfair transactions or in the bank application where, in all other cases, the laters are aware. If I say so at home, when the credit goes down and you don't pay it back, there's no one in the bank who's been warned about that. An 800-euro pensioner receives a million EUR of credit. The unemployed one million euro of credit. The man in charge of the door will be an additional million Euros of credit. I believe you don't believe it, but believe me, we didn't believe it at first, but it was especially when NLB was led by Marjan Kramar. Some of the individuals gathered, more visible, influential from the business world, including some former intelligence service co-worker, would be among them; 45 million euros in holes are likely to be paid by taxpayers in the end. Let's just say that you're an entrepreneur, that you're doing a fair job, that you're doing your best in the market, and you're trying to make it work. You need some credit for that, too. Here. We'd set up 10 phantom companies to get in charge of you, and your parent company would remain innocent, even if it was your plan, we'd leave it quickly when we sat in front of the banker's face. We'd quickly miss you, demand insurance on your home house, some personal security, and your wife's weekend, if she has it. But not all of them. For example, Dark Horvath's standards were clearly different. This is the network of the Asset Group. We listed 67 companies in which €170 million of money borrowed from Slovenian banks was transferred. And I wonder if that's how the banker treats you? For example, next week you will receive 5 million euro of credit, or your bank guardian will send you a friendly e-mail with the following content: "Dear Sir, you will receive 5 million euro of credit on Friday. Do you intend to repay the loan by accident or should we make you a proposal to extend the loan? Thank you for your timely response." And so 7 times, 9 times, 11 times based on this kind of financial data. The company did not disclose the investment policy, the debt is increasing, the difficulties in realising, the cooperation with the bank, the company is at risk. And notice this for credits on a “bullet” basis, i.e. with interest and principal repayments at the end during the duration of the loan and all 7, 9, 11 extensions, without any costs for the borrower. In short, free money, when it's not paid in the end, goes to DUTB and we pay off taxpayers. Can you imagine that this would be allowed to you? Did you know that NLB did not lead Zvon One and Zvon Two as connected persons at all? So is Grep and Energoplan. Or did you know that he is the main auditor in the field of credit risk, i.e. the key risk in the NLB bank that has been doing this work for 20 years without being tested by an auditor in the largest state bank? It seems to you that internal auditors who, among other things, have the mandate of the Supervisory Board's Audit Board will come to the branch office of the Bank abroad for a review of the credit maps, and the bosses will send them away and say that you have nothing to look for, write a report to the Governing Board of the Bank, and no one will get hurt. You knew that in NLB around 2002 there was a coin of 'commercial interest' found in the sector's credit risk documents whenever, on the basis of the financial data of the borrower, they openly advised the approval, but they knew that the bank's management wanted to lend to the chosen ones in any way, and the management then always approved the loans on the basis of this commercial interest and we paid the taxpayers, of course. In all the most unreasonable decisions of the bank that we have witnessed to the investigative commission, we always find this verbal link. Therefore, it will not be difficult for criminals to detect credit perversions in the New Ljubljana Bank. And I could count it. Due to the above and much more in the commission of inquiry, we point out in the essential findings that the NLB administrations and credit committees at the time of Marjan Kramar and Draška Veselinović, as well as the NKBM boards and credit committees at the time of Matjaž Kovacič, must be liable for the criminal and indemnity damage caused by the use of bad banking practices to us taxpayers of the Republic of Slovenia. The administration of Boža Jašovic is responsible for not breaking up with bad banking practices, but even leaned on the staff who were digging the bank hole during the initial period. Let us move on to the areas where policy and banking crime, the Stožice project, meet hand in hand. A project where taxpayers were harmed by the unreasonable, illogical and non-economic decision of exclusively Slovenian bankers for rivers and write EUR 135 million. Those who should be the core of our economy, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, and operators on the Cologne project for an additional EUR 30 million hole. So, together, over €165 million in damage. This is an example of the wildest exploitative capitalism afforded by those who swear to socialism and preach on May 1st in Rožnik the need to change social regulation. I'm sorry, but the situation where the Prime Minister of the Government calls on state bankers to help find a solution to the inherited project because he was so recommended by the local mayor is unserious, unworthy state policy and unacceptable in terms of the consequences for us taxpayers. The banks did not act as an economic entity pursuing their own business interests, but rather as an enforcer of a political decision taken outside the regular framework of decision-making structures in banks. If we built the hall and stadium on the basis of public investment, it would cost us €105 million. Subcontractors would all be paid, and the environment of sports facilities today would not be chewing on the screech of a building pit, but rather a decorated park. However, as some at luxuriantly expensive lunches and dinners with cigars and whiskeys pressed their way to megalomanism, 135 plus 30 million Euros of deep hole and over-indebted subcontractors and a number of lives have been destroyed. Remember this reality to all politicians, and especially to those who have made it possible with private involvement to give the money of state banks to megalomania at the expense of subcontractors and taxpayers. Especially keep this in mind when you are rooting for our chosen species in the headquarters VIP boxes. Just for a taste, a concrete case, but he wants to remain nameless. Take the example of the company X, which did work in the Cologne, for example, that they gave him 8 million Euros of business, work, work, not getting paid, Srak, Ogrin and Jankovic all through saying don't worry that he will already get paid. When he's running out of salary money, someone else comes to his aid, and they give him credit to pay their employees for what he doesn't get paid for, the subscriber goes, calms him down, because when we get the money from the NLB, you'll get the full payment, you'll pay off the employee's salary and it'll be yours. But the day comes when NLB and other state banks wiretap the money of the union loan, but pay attention, not to subcontractors, but on Grep's account, that day is celebrated by Grep's tight team with expensive lunch in one of the prestigious Ljubljana restaurants. At home financially saved and at the door indebted subcontractors also feel relieved, but now they'll say it, but it wasn't, this entrepreneur gets just enough to pay off the loan he borrowed from NLB for the payment of his employees and for loans to other banks. Then he gets some overrated apartments from Energoplan by the formula, take it or you won't get anything else, and when he thinks he can't go any worse, he gets a request from the leaders in Grep to together for another million euros to lend to Grep's owner, do you imagine this perversion? You do what they ask, they pay you half, and then they force you to lend them, but it's not over, if you don't get paid in full, you can't pay your suppliers, the forced settlement is inevitable, you're firing your employees, and you're watching a project destroy decades of successful tradition and your future. And then the Stožice project goes to a bad bank, when you failed to settle the loans for employees who worked at the Stožice, these gentlemen from the bad bank say, look, buy back these apartments that we took from you, give them at a slightly lower price, take them or go to court. The apartments you got because they didn't pay you, already overrated, for the work you did, but they didn't pay you. Tell me honestly, can this entrepreneur today have confidence in the rule of law? What about social justice? Politics? The integrity of state institutions? All those political actors who were campaigning for credit at state banks? Let's take a look at another case, a judgment of the Supreme Court in Maribor, a compensation action by the management of the New Bank of Credit Maribor versus the former administration led by Matjaž Kovacic, for causing damage in a bank of over EUR 20 million. Undisputedly, it was a bad banking practice, irrefutablely damaging to the bank was the millionth dimension, which was eventually covered by taxpayers. The Maribor District Court confirmed this and what do the Maribor high judges Janez Polanec, Danica Shantl Feguš and Alenka Kuzmič say? In the beginning, the three judges decided to reopen the evidence procedure. Again, the Witnesses were questioned to see if Kovach and Skernišak were really guilty, what do you think they found out? I quote: “After a careful and comprehensive assessment of the evidence carried out, the Supreme Court of Maribor does not find illegality.” Why am I exposing this? Because this decision is based on one of the cases, which is also described in very detail in our report, the Pomhold case, Pominvest. The Court needed all four sides of the judgment to prove that the former bank management was not responsible, while we needed more than 40 pages of the report in which we claim and prove otherwise. But of course, what the court says is true. Let us see why Mr Kovacic is not responsible. It is indisputable for the court that any unlawful conduct, whether active or passive, for which there is an objectively foreseeable potential for injury to occur is illegal. If your credit risk service is the key service in this area that tells you that the investment is risky and that it is highly likely that it will not be paid, then we can probably already talk about the reasonable doubt of the illegality of the administration, right? The Maribor High Court says that in the case of Mr Kovacic, it is not. Although the representative of this risk service also testified in court - last but not least on the credit committee, she voted against this credit proposal - but the court notes that the statement of the risk chairman, namely those who voted against the fact that the credit committee had already warned of inadequate insurance in the past, could not be decisive. In the Court’s view (quote) “the renewal of the short-term loan in the long term was undoubtedly a rational decision.” Even though the insurance was inadequate, it's obviously not a problem for the court, because it says (quote, pay attention!) "It is important to point out that this was not a first-class insurance, and obviously not a suitable insurance, but the fact that the committee obviously had a better insurance that could be offered to the bank did not have." Yeah, then why do we give credit to a commissioner like that? Maybe it's because the owner of this company is sitting in the controlling world of the same bank? The result: “The witness in the court says: ‘If we did not approve a new loan, but would have gone to recovery, the loss was estimated at 50%, in other words, but half would have been obtained anyway.‘The Court therefore, in its argument of its decision, states: ‘The credit committee was before a great deal of dilemma, or the credit, in view of the positive forecasts of the movement of the world capital markets, was to restore or recall. In the latter case, the risk for the bank would be even higher.” I wonder how the court came to this conclusion, especially because it did not further explain it. They wrote (quoted): “The bank would pay less for the loan due to the low exchange rates.” I mentioned earlier that the witness most called for this assessment said that the bank would survive 50%. But since they didn't cash out the insurance, but they extended the loan, the bank survived -- you know how much? - Nothing at all. As taxpayers, we have paid an account of 10 million euros. As no percentage for the Slovenian court is more than 50%, I don't know. Well, this same court concludes its argument on the burdened liability of Kovacic's administration with a sentence (quote): “In other words, the supervisory board has given its consent to the conclusion of this business.” However, do not mention that there were two owners of this company in this supervisory council; let us mention this in the report. Judges Polanec, Šantel, Feguš and Kuzmič thus awarded: Matjaž Kovacic's award for the first stage of the trial, the award for the first trial plus the remaining costs, total EUR 213,000 354, and the award for the regular remedy and the award for the second instalment of EUR 211 000 202, totalling EUR 424 000 500; the Manji Skernišak combined with the remaining costs of EUR 375 000; and Ivan Viszak, who sat in the supervisory world and dug a 10 million hole, which was eventually paid by the taxpayers, as a foreign intervener, awarded EUR 374 thousand. Therefore, we rightly wonder who today can laugh. Dear representatives of the Legislature, I ask you whether you have confidence that the regular judiciary will give fair and adequate and timely sanctions to those responsible for the creation of the bank hole. I'll allow myself that statement, no. Obviously, there are no members of the commission of inquiry, so during the conclusions we propose the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of banking and financial crime, and we have already done so once, but nothing has happened. However, matters are becoming more serious from day to day, from judgment to judgment. Based on the consequences, they're too serious to be disturbed. In particular, the Commission of Inquiry has shown that a number of burdensome evidence against NLB and NKBM administrations exists for all types. Why hasn't anyone been convicted yet? Maybe it's because if we were to convict one of the first-class banks, we'd have to convict everyone. Because everyone had their fingers in the marmalade. Do you imagine Slovenia where Marjan Kramar, Matjaž Kovacič, Andrej Hazabent, Alojz Jamnik, Matej Narat, Zakroška, Jančar, Mesarič, Skernišakovo are sentenced to many years of imprisonment? If the answer is no, then we're not a normal country yet. For at the imprisonment of the countries where the rule of law is in effect, they condemn all those who have been proven to have broken the laws; therefore we must imagine that this may happen to each of us if we break the laws. And until we get it into our heads and until we think about it, some will be able to continue to break the laws peacefully. Those who climb up high enough on the social ladder are so much easier because you obviously can't even imagine condemning them. The issue of the bank hole is also a major issue of political responsibility. The reasons are primarily on the part of the banks’ administrations and credit committees, directly on the part of supervisors, regulators and owners. However, the extent of the consequences is largely due to inadequate and late action during the government of Borut Pahor and the ministry of Franc Križanič. This will certainly be a very detailed discussion below, so more so later. Politics works, and whoever makes mistakes does. Those who make mistakes with serious consequences must take responsibility for this. If it does not, if the consequences are not done, there is a loss of confidence among citizens. It's high time this spiral of falling trust intersects. By adopting the final report, although it may not be kind to you, to your president or to individuals in your circle or precisely because of this, we can prove that this call by Parliament can make a mirror. This is also a key point when the confidence of citizens and citizens in politics can be restored. Our job is to do everything in our power for this purpose. One step is to support this report. We've finished our work. We have shown that we have heard 74 Witnesses, interrogated 174 hours or converted to working days, more than a month of uninterrupted interrogation. Only magnetograms of hearings count over 3,500 pages. In doing so, I would like to thank the members of the investigative commission for their work, including Vice-President Bojan Krajnc, for their proper co-operation and support in the work of the investigative commission. Some of the findings of the commission of inquiry and some criminal charges are based on his testimonies before the commission of inquiry. We spent over 1,700 hours preparing this report in a quiet room. If I convert this into the working hours of our parliamentary bunker, this means more than 420 days or 14 months of daily study of documentation. For every hour of the hearing, i.e. 10 hours of study documentation. The commission of inquiry is a serious matter. During this term of office, Hanzkova and Jelkina have already proved this, and they have lied to all the unfaithful Tomaza who are completely destroying the Institute and the importance of the parliamentary investigation. The parliamentary investigation has a basis in the Constitution and it is necessary to be aware of this. Some people don't. External officers of the investigative commission thoroughly searched the witness hearings. We have found that, despite the above-mentioned importance of the parliamentary investigation, some clearly still underestimate its importance. We decided they were lying. Lying in front of everyone. Therefore, the commission of inquiry will press charges against them for false testimony against: Matej Narat, Matjaž Kovacič, Jurija Detič, Goraz Jančar, Andrej Hazabent, as well as against the policies of Franc Križanič and Borut Pahor. And to conclude, my personal opinion. The documentation of the rehabilitated banks should become public. That's what we taxpayers deserve. We were finally forced to pay for this. It should also become a public report. Then people could gain insight into what was going on in the Slovenian banking system, and then each individual would be better able to assess the work of the judiciary, which has an extraordinary responsibility before them - a 24% public trust to return to European level or to zero. The final report is drawn up as a statement of the suspicion of the crime of external and internal banking crime identified in the report. If you confirm the report, the official application action will be initiated. If not, the last three years of us, members of the commission, have gone to nothing. Decide for yourself, but keep in mind the opinion of those who have chosen you. Each of them has been forced to pay EUR 2 000 500 and I doubt that he is willing to pay any more. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, Honourable President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr Ange Logar. What is this society where we have the culprits for the billions of bank holes that walk freely around the country, but there is no sanction for their conduct, as the law enforcement authorities could not enforce them? What effect does such a situation have in society on the effect of general prevention? What do those who may be planning to commit new crimes in banking think? So far, no one's been responsible for the bank hole. Why would anyone answer in the future? Is this a real message for the Slovenian public, for Slovenian taxpayers, for faithful citizens? Is the current way of dealing with banking crime the path we must take to the future? The answer, of course, is clear. We need a new legislative framework to prosecute banking crime and we need trustworthy people, and it is even more urgent to privatise state banks to prevent such large bank gaps in the future. Many of the problems addressed by this Commission of Inquiry stem from the state ownership of banks, and it is important to talk about this today. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is not built, it is not set up to deal with the operations of state banks. The State is not designed to engage in the business of state-owned enterprises, economic operators. The country is much more. Unfortunately, the Slovenian political left, with the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, is constantly delaying. They are always looking for new excuses and it is never the right time to sell the New Ljubljana Bank. As we all know, Slovenia committed in 2013 to sell three quarters minus one share of Nova Ljubljanska Banka by the end of 2017, following the resolution of Slovenian banks in accordance with a decision of the European Commission on the granting of State aid. So, by the end of last year. This is a Commission decision on State aid of 18 December 2013 bearing the code SA.33229. As a result of this commitment, Slovenia was able to provide almost 1.6 billion state aid to the New Ljubljana Bank. Even Brexit cited the coalition as a convenient excuse for delaying sales. Among the excuses for postponing sales, the problem of Croatian savers also arose quickly, despite the fact that the problem existed for a long time and should have been solved by the government before that. Later, Slovenia asked the European Commission for a one-year decision to sell a quarter of the bank. In accordance with the revised undertaking approved by the European Commission, Slovenia should sell 50% of the New Ljubljana Bank by the end of 2017. The remaining part is still in 2018. We are approaching mid-2018, and we have not yet fulfilled our commitment. In the New Slovenia Group we advocate the immediate sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. The main reason for the sale is not the commitment we have made to the European Union. The main reason for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is that the country is an irresponsible owner. And let's just look at the situation we have in the Slovenian State Holding. The new Ljubljana Bank needs a new responsible owner for long-term success and development. And privatisation is just that. Privatisation is a process of finding a responsible owner. In Novi Slovenija we also stand for sale because we want to protect Slovenian citizens from any repayment for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank in the future. Today I received a call from a desperate Prekmurec who mentioned a bank hole, which also mentioned that he paid a number of years in a pension box and today has 210 euros in pensions. However, those who do not work for such or other reasons are entitled to a cash social assistance amounting to EUR 385. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a social state. It's a breakdown of the social state. At the expiry of the deadline, the Government proposed to extend the time limit of sale and to appoint an independent custodian to enforce the State's shareholding rights until the completion of the sale. In order to examine whether these proposed new measures sufficiently replace the postponement of the sale of the bank beyond the end of 2017, the Commission initiated an in-depth investigation in January 2018. In the event of a negative decision by the Nova Ljubljanska Banka Commission, the penalty for the return of all State aid, i.e. around EUR 1.6 billion, can be jeopardised. The new Ljubljana Bank would then certainly no longer be capital-appropriate. The government is playing with fire by delaying the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. It is very important to note today that the government's conduct in the sale process of the New Ljubljana Bank can lead to a new Slovenian banking disaster. We expect and hope that a new parliamentary commission of inquiry will not be necessary in the next Assembly. On the other hand, the government had already taken care of doubts about the appropriateness of the Probank and Factor Bank's conduct prior to the time when, despite the high risk, it had decided to simplify its accession to the Bank's Claims Management Company. Such links in the procedure do not require disclosure of a number of documents, including reports on the revision of the connection. It gives us reasonable suspicion that it was necessary to cover something up when we joined the Factor Bank and Probank. Unfortunately, many things cannot be changed by the legislators. It is necessary to respect the prohibition of retroactivity and the principle of criminal law under which the accused must be subject to the Penal Code, which was applicable to the commission of a criminal offence or to that code which is milder or more favourable to him. However, I stress that this must not serve as an excuse for the fact that nothing can be done in the area of bank crime prosecution and that we must stand at the crossroads of our hands. In Novi Slovenija we could not just wait for the government to send its proposal to the National Assembly to strengthen the work of justice in this area. We have proposed specialisation in the work of the courts and prosecutors in the area of banking crime. The conclusion already in the interim report on the parliamentary inquiry carried out by the Logar Commission proposed the specialisation of the work of the courts. On 22 November 2016, this National Assembly voted on the conclusion of an interim report on the parliamentary investigation carried out. Among other things, the decision contained the text, quote, “The National Assembly, in line with the essential findings of the parliamentary inquiry, proposes to the Government that it provide legal and materially for the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime within the framework of the organisation of the judiciary.” 74 members voted in favour of the motion, and no one voted against it. Since the adoption of the decision, it has been a long time since the government coalition, which unanimously supported the decision and which has the entire state apparatus behind it, has not proposed a solution that would bring about the solution set out in this Decision. That is why we have prepared our bill in opposition Novi Slovenije. Currently, the current Slovenian legislation governing the judicial treatment of more difficult crimes does not know the specific form of specialisation in the field of investigation and trial of banking crime cases. However, the experience of dealing with banking crime shows the high degree of inefficiency of the judicial system in the conduct of proceedings that would result in the completion of a judicial epilogue in the form of a judgmental or acquittal judgment. Obsolete cases of this kind of crime are unacceptable. The proposal for a new Law on Courts, prepared and tabled by Members of New Slovenia, envisaged the introduction of specialised branches for banking crime in district courts. The most qualified judges, co-workers and assistants would be deployed in these departments. The proposal lays down, in view of the high degree of complexity of this area, the obligation to fulfil the persons operating in this section. This includes the acquisition of knowledge from abroad, which in an international sense allows the transfer of best practices into the operation of the department. The new Slovenia also considers that the area of detection and prosecution of bank crime crimes within the competence of the specialised state prosecutor for our society is so important that these processes need to be supported and strengthened. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. A special prosecution unit was established in Iceland. This one has taken responsibility for the prosecution of banking crime. She was able to lead the prosecution procedures by ultimately condemning 30 bankers and financiers for her actions. Only two have been convicted in Slovenia so far. On the other hand, the proposal for a new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office of New Slovenia, within the specialized state prosecutor's office, would set up a special department for the prosecution of banking crime with the most experienced state prosecutors and professional associates. You too should be regularly met by domestic and foreign experts in banking crime. As with the new Law on Courts, we also wanted a new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office to achieve that those most qualified to deal with banking crime within the specialized State Prosecutor's Office could only deal with this area of criminal law. Although the National Assembly unanimously supported the decision to set up a specialised banking court, and that the laws of New Slovenia have undergone the first general treatment, the Government has not gathered enough courage to support our laws. We view this as a lost opportunity, but of course we can think our own way of thinking about the government's attitude towards bangsters. It is also worrying that Slovenia is the country with the highest share of bad loans in gross domestic product among all Member States of the European Union. According to the findings of the European Statistical Office, Eurostat, in 2015 poor loans in the Republic of Slovenia accounted for as much as 7.5 % of GDP. Far from Slovenia, the Czech Republic ranked 1,7 % of GDP in this infamous category in second place with a much better result. For the vast majority of all other Member States, this indicator is moving below one percent. It is particularly sad, however, that the crimes of banking crime and the incomplete confrontation with their consequences in Slovenian society created a sense of inequality and mistrust in state mechanisms. Slovenian taxpayers are justifiably angry when they use their taxes to patch up the billions of holes that have been unearthed in the budget by irresponsible persons in banks. Unfortunately, the Slovenian judicial system is not capable of dealing with these persons in the way it would have spoken of them in order to give them a conviction or acquittal. It often seems that the outcome in court depends more on power and influence than on rules and laws. This is also reflected in the great mistrust of citizens in justice. One of our priorities is finally to create a country where the rules and laws apply equally to both the average citizen and the banker or the banking lodge. We see the work of the Commission of Inquiry as an extremely important contribution to this objective. I therefore thank the President, Dr Logar, and all the members of the Commission for their outstanding work on behalf of the entire New Slovenia Group. Today we will also reiterate our support for the proposal for a decision establishing a specialised court, as we have supported in the past with our proposal for a Law on Courts. We hope that this proposal will also see the light of the world as a result of the work of the Commission of Inquiry. I would like to extend my sincere thanks to all the professional colleagues who have invested in the work of this commission of inquiry. In Novi Slovenija, we will support the final report of the commission of inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the identification of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u7	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u8	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The development in the banking sector is a typical demonstration of systemic corruption, characterised by the granting of credits without insurance by associations and acquaintances and the rotation of certain people by situations where those who have created a bank hole have also solved and concealed acts and so-called gold parachute or good service for all who are silent about deviant practices and even prevent investigation. The problems are reflected in the functioning of informal networks from investigative institutions, the judiciary, banking and other supervisory institutions, the poor management of banks and the lack of supervision, both internally and externally. For those appointed to key positions, we note that they did not care about conflicts of interest, that they did not eliminate them, that they did not care about competitive secrecy, that they did not care about the management of an institution where supervisory mechanisms were appropriate, that they did not prevent loans from being made on different criteria for people and on different terms for their friends, because we saw that banks could operate if we were involved as a committee. As soon as it comes to friends, these control mechanisms disappear. And, of course, the reputation has been greatly diminished. In doing so, we wondered what the policy was doing, how it affected such an event and what the role of the media was. The 4th branch of government here has not performed its functions of control over politics and all other institutions, and they must first clear within themselves what impact they had on developments in the banking sector. Now, if we look at the analysis, we see that no one has declared that there has been political pressure. So if there was no pressure, those who ran and controlled the banks were responsible. How did this happen? By avoiding legal provisions, let it be a creative interpretation of these provisions, whether it is a matter of specific interpretations based on well-paid opinions or direct avoidance. He's taken control, he's had a whole bunch of consulting contracts, so we ask ourselves, those who have held the highest positions, why do they need advisers, how did they even get this function, and if they need advisers for every decision? Conspiracy, in the conspiracies, stated that they didn't know anything about it, that they didn't remember that there was nothing wrong with their actions and that they didn't know about it. So either they're incompetent or they did it on purpose, and both of them are catastrophically wrong. If we look at what kind of responsibility follows, of course, criminal, so we hand over all the documentation to law enforcement authorities to find out what was with criminal responsibility, but this is not enough, it is also necessary to press compensation and financial institutions, here is also the big role of the Ministry of Finance, Agencies and Offices, the goal is not to just put these people in jail, but to find out what their property is, we get some money back, because money is somewhere and we fill the budget. And then, on the third level, positional responsibility, this is what we in a good country are advocating, that there is a ban on the exercise of public office for all those who have damaged state property, a bank hole has certainly been created and we see a pattern of behaviour that one and the same people are still in the highest positions. In doing so, I would also draw attention to people who were willing to say so - called whistles and who needed to protect them, which could be even more. If I suspect, the political responsibility is certainly, for the recruitment of the highest positions both in banks and supervisory mechanisms, and therefore the governments, especially the latter, are responsible, we have warned SDH, staffing, supervisors in banks, bank administrations, these are the ones that caused the bank hole. And of course, not acting, both in the legislative and other fields, is enough of this corruption. How do you do that? We can achieve with adequate staffing, which will be based on references and careers, but not through associations and acquaintances, by starting to work so that money laundering from Iran through Slovenia to other European and global countries will not occur again, so these financial institutions must assume responsibilities, we must put the right people in place, but not by doing so in some agencies. And, of course, the professional work of the fourth branch of government, the media in recent studies are exposed as those who are in charge of eliminating financial crime in addition to the police and the prosecution, unfortunately, the media with such reporting as now do not do the real work. Finding the truth, reporting events, we will see how the media will play their part in financial crime. We support both the report and the proposals because of everything mentioned in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, behind it by the mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u10	Thank you for saying so, President. Dear Members and Members, a very nice greeting. As the National Assembly has said today at its extraordinary session, the final report of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the identification of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in the Republic of Slovenia is being considered. In other words, the political responsibility of the holders of public powers shall be assessed. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we agree, as the report shows, that the supervisory councils of the banks in majority state ownership are objectively and subjectively responsible for the poor supervision of banking operations in the banks they supervised during the period 2002-2013. Bank expansion has only strengthened the implementation of poor banking practices. In the period 2004-2008, the government of Janez Janša has an objective responsibility for the appointment of supervisors who did not properly supervise banks at the critical time of inflating the bank credit portfolio, and the Government of Borut Pahor and later the Capital Investment Management Agency for the appointment of supervisors who did not exercise adequate supervision over bank management to ensure timely management of poor investments, as provided for in the Banking Regulation. For inadequate, inadequate and late action between 2004 and 2013, Banka Slovenije has an objective responsibility. The Governor and the vice-governors who covered the supervision of banking are also subjectively responsible. According to the report, in the first period of the crisis, after 2008, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia paid little attention to the stability of the banking system and was too late aware of the seriousness of the banking system. The government of Borut Pahor has an objective responsibility, according to the findings of the Commission of Inquiry, for the inappropriate structure of the banking system measures, in view of the difficulties of Slovenian banks owned by the country, which were overly affected by the accumulation of credit risk and the need to restructure their claims. Minister of Finance Dr. According to the findings of the Commission of Inquiry, Franc Križanič bears an objective and subjective responsibility for slow action. The government of Alenka Bratušek, which has decided to rehabilitate banks with tax money, has not, in parallel, prepared an appropriate normative staff and budgetary basis nor has it provided political support to strengthen the prosecution of banking crime. This delayed a critical moment, according to the Commission of Inquiry, when the authorities of detection and prosecution with hidden instruments would allow for more successful prosecution of banking crime and the report shows that the Government of Alenka Bratušek bears an objective responsibility for inappropriate action in this area. The report also reveals responsibility to the Government of Mir Cerar. It is evident from the conduct that was or was completed before his government’s appearance. With regard to the evidence that the Government of Mir Cerar has not given sufficient attention to the prosecution of banking crime, it should be said that the situation of persecution of internal banking crime has improved during this time, particularly at the expense of a number of necessary measures. Among other things, the largest human resources reinforcement of the state-defendant species has been adopted since the independence of the country, as it has allowed 30 new state prosecutors or prosecutors to take an oath. Allow me to list just a few of the measures that we have taken in this mandate, it is said, at the time of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar. An amendment to the Banking Act was adopted to regulate access to data protected as bank secrecy, which is of course very important in the prosecution of such crime. We have also set out with the amendment that under certain conditions, parliamentary investigative boards can also access confidential bank data. We have adopted a new Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. For the purposes of the prosecution of banking crime, provision has been made for specific deadlines for determining the criminal and compensation liability of the banks' management who have received measures for the stability of their core environments or banks. Last June, the Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act was adopted, which gave the competent authorities effective preventive mechanisms and powers to deal with the banking crisis in a timely manner and will also contribute to the more responsible management of the banks themselves. The new Penal Code has been adopted, which has exacerbated the penalties for corruption offences and extended their limitation period from 10 to 20 years in order not to stop the case as in previous years. Crimes of tax evasion and abuse of internal information are more specifically defined. The amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions has strengthened the conditions for the postponement of a prison sentence for health reasons. The amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office removed the legal obstacles to the allocation of experts with special knowledge to the Special Prosecutor's Office. With the appropriate amendment of the Law on Courts, we have increased the possibility of assigning district judges to district courts, allowing for a more efficient allocation of cases and thus a faster resolution in the courts themselves. Finally, the amendment of the Judicial Register Act has created additional possibilities for detection and prosecution authorities in relation to the acquisition of data on related persons of companies directly from the Court Registry or from the Register of Business Entities. On the basis of the foregoing, it cannot be agreed that the current Government in the area of banking crime did not pay due attention, as they do not hold. The Investigative Commission therefore proposes to adopt the relevant decisions after the consideration of this interim report by the National Assembly. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that the proposed conclusions follow the aim of pursuing banking crime, so we will support them, as well as the final report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u11	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. My colleague and colleague, I think that first of all we should thank the President of the Commission of Inquiry and all the members of the Commission of Inquiry for this report. Of course, it is also necessary to rediscover that the proposal to set up this commission of inquiry – this proposal was put forward by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members – was correct. This is due mainly to the fact that this report gives us, of course, all the grounds for determining on what basis banking practice in this country actually worked, the technical relationship between how credits were made and, on the other hand, giving us an insight into what kind of country we are actually living in. We can simply find, on the basis of what this documentation gives us and this report, that we live in a country where one has certain rights and others have certain rights, only these rights are not the same. We live in a country of first-class and second-class. The other thing we can figure out is that we simply say who actually decides in this country, who decides if you want, who decides on investments, who decides who gets the credit, and how they get the credit and not just that, but who gets the credit back. Here we can identify a number of connected persons, a number of networks that operate, and who, in fact, by their influence on all governments so far, have influenced either through the supervisory boards or through management actually to realize their interests. These interests are not interests that benefit people. Last but not least, we can find out by this report and this documentation who pays for all these decisions, if I put it simply, the networks. They pay taxpayers. Taxpayers pay mainly because money is given through banks, which is then not returned and the bill is paid to taxpayers. Also because we still have them in the country and we have them in the last, if you want the 70s and even in Slovenia alone, mainly state banks. And within this state bank is the most important bank, this is the New Ljubljana Bank. It's all about this bank. It has been spinning since the early 1960s, when this bank was used to form a parallel economic system and to finance the Ustva through it and, of course, to receive money through it. After 1991 and 1990, of course, this organisation is no longer in existence, it has also been convicted through the Constitutional Court or at least the Constitutional Court has given its position on this organisation, but the system and methods and, last but not least, people are still the same as they are. And this New Ljubljana Bank covers more than 50% of the market share. And bankers operate in such a way that when some credit is given, especially when it comes to greater credit, a so-called ‘banking’ is established. The union, this union, in other words, says how much credit there will be in addition to one bank, this is usually New Ljubljana Bank given to other banks. Moreover, decisions on whether or not this credit will be returned are usually settled through the so-called ‘e.g. a syndicate where bankers gather and decide what they will do to an individual client, whether they will bankrupt him or not. And, ladies and gentlemen, we have these structures today. And these structures still determine our lives. Finally, part of these structures showed this report and this documentation. However, with names and surnames, of course, all governments operating and operating on behalf of the owner and owner, of course, which means that they propose supervisory councils to propose administrations and so on. However, be assured that no one in the New Ljubljana Bank comes to the administration by chance and no one comes to the supervisory board by accident and no one comes to these institutions solely because of the proposal made by a government, whatever. If this network was not thrown out or rejected, if it had been rejected or rejected, of course this person could not have gotten there. And the circle is here concluded, through control mechanisms, on management, on Banka Slovenije and not least on every government. And in such a society, we live. And that's what this paperwork and this report gave us. In short, that the whole financial system is run by someone else, apart from the state, that we have first-class and second-class and that, of course, these first-class ones are allowed much more. And of course we have this in connection with the fact that we have a state bank and this state bank must still exist. This state bank will continue to exist because of this people and because of these networks until the price of this bank is 1 euro to be given free of charge. Because as long as they have network privileges from this bank, as long as they have special status as long as they have special connections, special phones and so on, there are thought-off phones here that you can talk directly to the president of the bank or to a member of the bank's administration or to an influential person at the bank, we will have this bank for so long. It seems that in the sense of State ownership, which means State ownership in that some are privileged and others are paying for these privileges, these persons seem to make sense. And here, of course, is the task of us policy and, of course, of every government and of course, of the supervisory authorities, to simply break these networks, break them, and actually condemn them, on the other hand, also for any criminal acts, criminal acts that have been committed. Even today, we have not come to an end, we still have a lot of work to do. There is still a lot of work ahead of us, for the first time to determine the responsibility and for the second time to make the whole financial and banking system on new and different foundations. Until that happens, we'll just live in the same system. If we are talking about the report itself, then we must say that it gives a number of examples, gives a number of analytical examples, professional practices, especially bad banking practices. Above all, such banking practices should not actually occur anywhere. And in this sense, of course, this report and this documentation is a major contribution for, I will say, further work and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will support both the report and the proposals for a decision. The simple task in this area is not completed. We have a lot of work to do in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you. The National Assembly unanimously adopted a decision establishing an investigative commission to identify abuses in the banking system and to identify the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone. The decision was taken unanimously, but the members of the Commission, who rightly expected the results of the inquiry and finally the epilogue, were mostly barely concluding. Nevertheless, an extremely large and quality work was done. Many hearings were conducted professionally, correctly and always supported by evidence, including those carried out in a closed space, in secret, strictly confidential. But the Witnesses, as if they were from another world, argued to the majority that they did not remember, or that they confidently justified, what connections and chains were successful in their work and what rewards they received, perhaps even in order that they might not remember anything today. Everything was administrative, legally correct, but at the end of the chain, a desperate man ended his life. You've been able to track a lot of stories in the media. I was most often deeply touched by the teachings of disappointment, especially because they were warned that it was a crime to give a false witness. Many well - known Witnesses remain in high positions in our country. Most are those who will never return hired, high, risked and unsecured loans for their own purposes. The Watch Towers have hidden the entire line. They did not draw attention to the high risk of granted loans. The regulator, the Bank of Slovenia, did not control them, which is its primary task. As can be seen from the evidence of the interim report, when the Commission was focused on the verification of operations in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, it encountered, for example, a study of the documentation by Farokh. At that time, the question of where the Bank of Slovenia was doing, if we know that the banks of the European Union were alerting them to the risks, was very much raised. Banka Slovenije is the regulator, supervisor of all banks, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka. This has resulted in a number of names, including the Governor, who is now taking a dishonorable step towards an important position in the European Central Bank, where he will make sure that what he has allowed home will not happen to European banks. Personally, as a member of the Commission, I have always represented that part of the lowest-retirement population and I was wondering when we would get back the EUR 5 billion that we tax collectors put at a high price to fill the bank hole. Not only who will answer morally, criminally and financially, but also, when it is done, the wrong done to the pensioners who donated the most to this crisis hole. I appeal to the competent institutions that our findings and suspicions of crime will be thoroughly examined and will soon lead many stories to an effective epilogue. The Desus Group has been monitoring the work of the Commission at all times and today also unanimously endorses the final report and conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u16	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, distinguished president. The Commission of Inquiry, whose report we are considering today, has done good, extensive and difficult work. The amount of data that had to be processed exceeds all the data previously provided by the Commission of Inquiry. Her conclusions and extensive findings show how complex this issue is. The Commission has prepared 2 reports, one of which highlights a series of contentious behaviours of individuals who have benefited from the situation and the other that we are currently dealing with. Investigates the political responsibility of public officials. The work of the Commission is primarily a special part of the report, it offers comprehensive insight and concrete developments and actions that we believe will also be given a judicial epilogue. According to the Commission, the original problem is an unfinished transition, an unfinished story and the early 1990s. These have sown the seeds of another bank hole, and in a broader sense, half-declaration from these days is the source of most of today's problems in Slovenia. The story of the creation and rehabilitation of a bank hole is a story of 2 extremes. On the one hand, command micro guidance from the top, and on the other hand, the complete avoidance of any ownership responsibility. On the one hand, underestimating and ignoring certain problems, on the other hand, a panic reaction that has only accelerated and reinforced the harmful effects. On the one hand, stubborn insistence that there is no problem and change is not necessary, on the other hand the same stubborn insistence that everything is wrong and therefore everything needs to be destroyed and resold. And on both sides, the perfect belief that the other side is wrong in everything. If we add another two and a half decades to this, it seems logical today that the problem, when it finally erupted, grew to huge proportions. That the problem has been solved is not only a crisis, but many of the anomalys in the banking system, as the Commission of Inquiry has also found, stem from transition times, times when no one has understood well that the state and its property are not the same, times when it was not clear to anyone that the banking system should not be left to shadow actors who use common good for private gain far from the public eye. The first question answered by the proposal for a final report is how did the bank hole arise? Another important question is how have those responsible faced the problem at various times? Who acted in a timely and careful manner? Who's too late and sloppy? And third and foremost, the question is whether or not we have learned from all this that something like this will never happen to us again. One of the key reasons for the development of the events we witnessed in the crisis is the conduct of the Government of Janez Janša in the period 2004-2008. During the period of this government, we have introduced the euro as a currency, so the supply of cheap money in the form of affordable bank loans has increased. The Government and Banka Slovenije have only launched a hand in the exceptional increase in loans given to private people and the overheating of the economy during this period. The privatisation pressures of this government have accelerated the borrowing of loans for the purchase of businesses, the assets that they have set up for this purpose, the good and functioning companies, and have later turned into bad claims. If this experience can teach us something, it is a lesson that private property and private debt can become a public problem. That is exactly what happened in the crisis when creditors in fear began to demand repayment of their claims when banks and businesses began to seek resources for survival in a chilly way, and many businesses and jobs were threatened with collapse. The Social Democratic Government, which took place almost simultaneously at the end of 2018 with the outbreak of the economic crisis, had a small export-oriented and vulnerable Slovenian economy suffered severe blows. The increase in the number of unemployed and the necessary aid to the liquidity of certain undertakings which have not been able to obtain funds for regular operation, the threat of bankruptcy and the requirement for immediate and early repayment of the loans already granted. These were immediate consequences of the crisis, in such circumstances, the so-called bank hole by those responsible was not exposed as a first priority, and such circumstances required immediate action in several areas. And the Social Democratic Government has taken action, secured bank deposits of the population, subsidised part-time work in companies where it would threaten to forgive, provided for the payment of unemployment benefits and new programmes for overqualified workers. With new tax incentives, companies have encouraged them to invest in R & D. The Bank's capital has been strengthened by spending deposits, many of which have helped to overcome the crisis and strengthened companies that could continue to produce, develop and export. Today's growth in exports is in many ways due to the initial policies of the day, despite the fact that, since the past, the government has inherited tax reforms that have already increased or reduced the country's revenues since economic growth and that in the crisis, revenues have only been declining. Therefore, in this debate we cannot go beyond the key role of the first and responsible for the functioning banking system, regulator, supervisor and central banks, Bank of Slovenia. In this mandate, we also spent a lot of energy and time in other topics related to it to discuss its roles and responsibilities, much has been said and written about its independence, and it has been somewhat lost that the independence of the central bank serves at a crucial moment and without political pressure or in spite of doing what is right and good, but not only what is popular and politically desirable. In this role, the independent central bank has completely waived its responsibility and has failed to hide its independence today, forgetting that its independence has been given to it in order to carry out its duty and not vice versa. If those responsible at the central bank suspect that the Government has not read their reports carefully enough, their responsibility will not stop there, so it is necessary to point out at this point, the Bank of Slovenia has only begun to draw attention to the high share of so-called bad claims in banks in 2010 and to claim their capital increase. In several places, the Commission refers to the role of the guarantee scheme law adopted during the Borut Pahor government as the source of the so-called credit crunch. I believe that the adoption of this law has stopped the flow of loans and many claims or companies have been marked as bad, even though it was only their private owner. Let us point out that this law has incorporated many of the requirements of coalition partners, which, in addition to providing liquidity for businesses, have also required culprits and blood, so it has been mentioned that companies have been credited by owners or managers to the collateralisation of loans. Thus, the desire to punish the culprits has prevailed over the intention of helping to maintain jobs, rather than allowing businesses to obtain funds for their business, they have only changed into poor claims. Here it is to see again the Slovenian characteristic of which we have already paid a high price as a society. In case of problems, manic, we are looking for culprits who would be punished, rather than exerting themselves and trying to solve the causes that led us here and to find solutions for the future. It took this country 30 years to learn that property means nothing if you can't or won't take responsibility for it. It took her 30 years to realize that there is an intermediate space between daily policy interference with specific business decisions and a conscious decision not to engage in your property because you are afraid of exceeding your powers. The management of the system requires responsibility that can't start until we put someone in court. Governance and management require people who are willing to do everything in their power and competence to do their job at any time. Even for the price of their own property, people in the highest positions of responsibility are well paid, in order not only to hesitate in key moments between the security of their property and what should be done at that time. After the fall of the government of Borut Pahor, the government of Janez Janša took over. This faced the seriousness of the situation in the desire to act on behalf of the foreign and domestic public that we were facing a wall that we cannot solve ourselves. She described excessive public spending as a source of all problems and tried to lower it by means of an infamous ZUJF. It thus closed the last possible flow of money into the economy and, with its public statements, clearly informed the international capital markets that Slovenia was just ahead of bankruptcy. [[Incomprehensible]] The increase in interest on indebtedness during this period is thus almost exclusively due to the reactions of the then government. The circle was concluded and the painful and costly rehabilitation of the banking and economic system was so inevitable. The panic reaction of the domestic government has also triggered panic in international creditors and institutions. The government of Alenka Bratusek has taken control of this. It prevented a scenario that took place in Greece. The scenario that pushed this country into dependence on international creditors and took its independence of decision-making. The price we had to pay was enormous, but not compared to the consequences that would lie ahead in the case of the Greek script. However, we had to adopt privatisation requirements and restrictive measures in the operations of banks, we had to recapitalise banks with many small investors losing their assets. But all of this has enabled the committee since the double bottom of the crisis, in which we were brought by the panic reaction of the other Janša government. It is easy to be a general after a battle or after an end of war, today it is easier to determine why those responsible acted the way they did with time distances and information that were not available at the time. I must therefore point out that things must always be judged from the point of view of the information available at the time. We welcome investigations into the suspicions of crimes with which law enforcement authorities will have a lot to do. Perhaps it is too bad that the Commission has not made the same effort to take into account all aspects of political responsibility, which was its primary purpose. We believe this is due to a lack of time, not an attempt at deception. There was no recipe and no comparable experience or good practice to follow. Perhaps it was only to act in the best of faith and to do what was best. We therefore point out that the report should better illuminate the period before 2008 when the bank hole was created. The actors facing its resolution had to deal with a number of problems, of which the bank hole represented only one part. It should be noted that many opposed bank recapitalisations when this first appeared as a necessity. It should be noted that the last opportunity for action was lost in the 2004-2008 mandate, which was when the situation was appropriate. Instead, the Government and Banka Slovenije allowed economic overheating, floods of cheap foreign money and encouraged privatisation with borrowed money. If they felt that everything was not right in the banking system, they could and should then act. This, respected and respected, is the greatest reason and cause of the bank hole when most of the claims that are today marked as bad arose. We must commend the Commission for its work and conclusions. We are confident that if we had more time, she would have been able to include in her findings some other facts that would have better lightened who was solving the crisis, who was not and who was deepening it. For if we throw everything in the same basket, we will be like those who demanded the destruction of good companies decades ago because of their bad owners. You don't get sick by killing the body that attacked him. From all of this we need to learn something and use it so that the possibilities for repetition are reduced to a minimum. We believe that the prepared report, despite some imperfections, is good material for this lesson. Your Honor! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the Commission's report, hoping that its results will be used to provide us with a modern, functioning and transparent banking system in Slovenia. To establish and maintain such a governance system for the state and economy that will benefit all, not just the chosen ones. To move forward into the future and not back into the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Members of the Left did not support the establishment of an investigative commission nor did we participate in its work. It is unacceptable that the investigation into the banking crisis is led by the SDS, which led the government at the time of the large majority of the bad loans, between 2005 and 2008. Leave the SDS investigation of the affairs in banks is like leaving SD investigation into TES-6 or SDS investigation into the Patria affair. [[advertising in the hall]] We can know in advance what the result will be - the investigation will be misused for this [[advertising in the hall]] , that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u19	Please, calm down, come on!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u20	The bearers of responsibility are burdened. [[…]] The investigative committee's report confirms we weren't wrong. The Commission found that all governments have been objectively responsible for the banking crisis since 2004. It's a characteristic trick, you divide responsibility into everything, so that no one finally answers. The Logari Commission, for example, found that the first Janševa government is objectively responsible for bad practices in banks through the crisis. Mr Logar also mentioned the case of criminality in the NKBM earlier, and in 2015, correspondence was revealed indicating that Mr Kovacic, then president of the NKBM Board, had practically daily informed Prime Minister Janez Janša and his secretary, Mr Petk. Now what? If objective responsibility for bad practices in banks has been established before the crisis by the Janša Government, will Mr Logar therefore request Mr Janša's discharge from the SDS President? He won't. Moreover, Mr Logar is doing his best to become Prime Minister once again, who, as we have heard from the confrontations, is precisely the economic policy that led us to the greatest crisis since World War II. [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]] If you can. And a lost decade.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u21	A little peace, come on. We're all listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u22	The findings of this Commission on objective responsibility are therefore a public performance that has no consequences for political function holders and no sanctions. Further, if we look at how the Commission has explained the objective responsibility of the first Janša government, we see that it has ignored all the essentials. This part of the Janša report places more burden on the government than it does. The report states that the first Janša government was objectively responsible only because it appointed supervisors to the banks who had not exercised control and had failed to complete privatisation at that time. The fact that the findings concerning supervisors do not describe the responsibilities and wrong policies of the then-Janša government and the claim of privatisation is completely wrong. The most obvious indicator is already this indicator, from 1993 to 2006, after the growth of gross domestic product and the standard was reached by the countries of the European Centre. [[…]] It achieved this without the so-called external imbalances. So the country, the population and the economy had more debts than debts abroad. This turned out to be the first Janshea government. During his term of office, external debt increased by more than €14 billion. 14 billion euros in one term! Can you imagine? At that time, the economy grew exclusively at the expense of foreign loans, and that, ladies and gentlemen, was those loans, those private loans that had changed into bad loans at the time of the crisis, and after the banks had been rehabilitated into the public debt of Slovenian citizens. Of course, the first Janša government did not cause a global capitalist crisis or debt crisis in Europe, but contributed significantly to the fact that the recession in Slovenia was worse than in most comparable European countries. The first Janševa government did not implement an agreement with Banka Slovenije on anti-cyclical economic policy. Instead of blocking credit growth at the time of overheating, she herself poured oil into the fire. How? Let me give you three cases of failed politicians. In 2006, it substantially reduced income for the richest, exempt from income [[?]] , radically reduced the company's profit tax and abolished the tax on paid wages. What was the result? It increased the amount of money in the economy and banks and therefore made more missed investments, more loans that companies could not repay later. The second case, in 2007, when credits to companies grew by almost 30%, the first Janševa government again decided to pour oil on fire. She paid more than a billion Euros of debt early to domestic banks by issuing bonds abroad. So, she committed herself abroad, paid a billion euros early to Slovenian banks, which had already been so irrational and over-credited, and thereby gave them an additional billion for the more money they had invested in the missed investments. The third case, in 2005 and 2006, was issued by the first Yansev government for almost €1.5 billion in guarantees to Dars. Instead of taking advantage of record economic growth and building motorways with tax revenues, she approved the borrowing of credits to be paid by highway users for decades, of course with interest. That's information we haven't invented in Levica. You can read them in Banka Slovenije's Report on the Causes of the Bank's Capital Deficit, which the Bank has made – look at the irony – at the request of the SDS. But there's not a word in Logar's report. Of course, it is only part of the wrong policy of the first Janša government, and its guilt is even more direct. State and parastatal companies were not sold to the tycoons on their own. Mercator, Alpino and others were privatized by the government or Kad and the Court, which were directly controlled by the government. Banks that credited Taiwanese takeovers and failed investments were led by people set up by the Yangtze government. In 2006, the coalition also adopted a law on management acquisitions, which, look at the fraction, was the basis for tycunization in which Vegrad, SCT, Primorje fell, and which almost buried Mercury, and resulted in a lot of bad loans. Let's remember how much damage Janša's CEOs Andrej Lošin and Robert Timer did in Intereuropa and Luka Koper. That I don't even mention Shrotch's destruction of Lashko Brewery and Bavčar's destruction of Istrabenz. I'm sorry, this is all part of the story you're describing. Citizens and citizens should therefore be clearly told that the first Janša government is directly responsible for the creation of most bad credits in banks at that time with its failed policy. With the capital and the rich, the oil poured into the fire of the crisis and contributed significantly to overheating with privatisation. The other Yansev government, along with other corrupt governments, has passed the cost of crisis on to working people [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u23	Or we could finally calm down in the SDS and listen to someone once, just like everyone else has to listen to you. [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u24	I'm sorry, I listened to both your views without comment. Can I continue or should we stop?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u25	If we don't calm down, I'm gonna stop this session.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u26	In short, I stress that most of the bad loans were made during the first Janša government. These became public debt during the crisis. The other Janša government, along with the others, passed the cost of the crisis on to working people. Prior to the crisis, taxes on capital and the rich were reduced, and VAT and excise duties were raised in the crisis, i.e. indirect taxes, which significantly hit the average citizen, pensioner, recipient of social assistance, employee. The wrong policy was therefore paid by all those who were least responsible for it, public servants, pensioners, socially disadvantaged and all others who received austerity measures. However, there is an old mantra in the report so that the banking crisis could be avoided if the first Janša government privatised the bank. Of course, this is completely wrong. See, the global capitalist crisis was not caused by Slovenian state banks, but by Western private banks, including the NCB, which co-owned NLB. Otherwise, if you look at the structure of the Slovenian banking system before the crisis, you will find out the following. The bank was a private bank, the Probank was a private bank, the Factor Bank was a private bank. Even in NKBM, before the crisis, the share of the country fell below half. The NLB wasn't exactly a state bank either. The Belgian NCBs had almost the same share in NLB, 31 % as the country 33 %. And you know what else the BBC had? The Executive Director of Claude Derose. And you know what the gentleman was up to? You will not believe it, its responsibility has been to manage risks and problematic investments. So, the private partner in NLB was the one who was responsible for managing risks and problematic investments. Does this mean that if the NCBs, for example, had a greater share in NLB before the crisis, would break the old networks, prevent old practices, as you say? Probably not, since it's had an impact since 2002. Would Slovenia avoid public rehabilitation of NLB? Probably not, since the NCBs had to be cured by the Belgian state and all the bad loans in the NLB had to be left to us, Slovenia. Despite the fact that this report completely ignores the fact that Janša's government has made a significant contribution to its anti-social and anti-development policy today will be adopted. And you're responsible for that. Members of the coalition, SMC, SD, Desus. Desus' collaboration is not surprising. After all, he was in both of Janš's coalitions, which is why it is in his interest to blur responsibility. But I don't understand why SD and SMC allow it. In the coalition contract, you finally promised to investigate the bank hole and define responsibility, but nothing was done in the entire mandate. Although the government had passed a law on systematic investigations, it was so distasteful that it stopped its treatment itself. And we've repeatedly asked her to fix it and file it again to get a fair investigation into the recovery and the creation of the bank hole. The Coalition has not adopted a law allowing small shareholders of the Bank of Maribor to sue damages for the removal of their shares. The coalition has blocked the treatment of our law to protect fraudulent lenders of loans in Swiss francs. Therefore, the coalition has done absolutely nothing to punish the culprits and protect citizens from bank fraud. But she's privatized, sorry, sold out, New KBM. Let me remind you, we have invested almost a billion euros in it, sold for 250 million. The same policy continues with NLB and endorses the privatisation of the Bank. If this goes on, we will soon have no more public-owned banks in Slovenia. All gains will be privatised, we will lose leverage for democratic control and autonomous development, and the next crisis will, of course, overtake citizens. The bias of this investigation is also evident in other elements. For example, where is the responsibility of the government of Alenka Bratusek? It is mentioned, but again it refers to foreign matters. The main errors of these two governments were to make an excessive and too costly recapitalisation of banks; today it is clear that it has been overestimated by at least a billion euros and a half and is practically ignoring this report. At the same time, the question is also based on what criteria has a set of cases investigated by the Commission. For example, where are the investigations of the damage caused by the funds and businesses, such as owned by the Roman Catholic Church, I mention Zvon One and Zvon Two, which have caused even if you are looking at who contributed to the bank hole, even the most damage. I can't find them in the report. So if I draw the line. As I said at the outset, members of the Left did not support the establishment of an investigative commission to investigate the creation and rehabilitation of a bank hole, for we suspected that the SDS would abuse the commission to discharge its responsibility. All I have said on the basis of the report shows that we have not been wrong, so we cannot support the conclusion of this Commission today, we will only support the conclusion that all the documentation collected by the Commission will be submitted to the law enforcement authorities, which I hope will conduct a fair and credible investigation into what happened between 2005 and 2008 and the lost decade that followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u27	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the publicly available final report, the above-mentioned key findings and on the proposal for a decision and the amendment of Dr Anjet Logar to the proposal for a decision. A representative of the proposed committee of inquiry, Dr Anže Logar, spoke first.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u28	Thank you, President. First of all, I would merely procedurally suggest that today's debate be held in public work and that we then do not go to a closed meeting, because the part that relates to the closed part is more or less banking crime, which is very visually shown and I do not think that there are any moments between us. We have heard practically from all of us that they will support these documents to be attached or handed over to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and the National Investigation Office, so that today's debate can only end in open writing. However, some statements need to be defined for these initial performances. I have to say, I don't know, we're all politicians and we're committed to some common goal, it's working for the good of the country, but in order to do that, we also have to be honest with ourselves in some way. I find it difficult to listen to someone's statement that it is, say, Janša's government or any other government if he hasn't read even the pages of the report. What my fellow moon has just explained, I am already attesting in my opening speech that it is not true. He was asking why we didn't deal with Bell One and Bell Two. I mentioned them in the introduction. You have, I don't know, the 3rd or 4th case in the report, a detailed case of Zvon One and Zvon Two about providing all those responsible for this kind of operation of the New Ljubljana Bank. I don't know where you have the face to come here before the National Assembly, a brother of pamphlets who wrote to you some others, who are obviously up to the door in, I don't know, this bank hole, but they're either from the New Ljubljana Bank or they're obviously some former ministers who haven't done their job or they've done it badly. That reminds me of, you know, dogma. And I'll tell you what dogma means. Statement, principle based on authority, not on scientific evidence. Everything in the main findings is explained in the report, everything. It does not claim that we have not mentioned what is in the Banka Slovenije report. It is also explicitly cited that the biggest delay was made in the period 2008-2011 because the government did not take appropriate measures and underestimated the problem of banking crime. And I can also quote you because it also states: “In view of the situation in Slovenia, the ECB’s pre-crisis monetary policy was too restrictive to limit the negative effects of the crisis in the Republic of Slovenia.” That's what you got in there. Now, if you're saying that the moon is green, it's green, but if one looks at the moon, what color it is, I eventually believe what I see. And it holds what is written in the reports. Now the Vice-President of Parliament is sooner or later, I will say so. [[…]] Now we're in a strange situation where we have a dilemma of political responsibility. When we identified the responsibility of the administrations and the supervisory boards and regulators, we were all smart and we joined together, yes, look, it's really you, you rascals. So, that's what you need to know. Now, when the final report comes to light on the issue of political responsibility, the SMC says we are not politically responsible, the SD says it is Janševa's government. Look, after all, Janez Janša, who was repeatedly exposed, or SDS did not say, is not guilty. That probably tells us a lot about how we take responsibility. Look, talk about the fact that the SMC Government, which we find in the main findings, has not done enough to prosecute banking crime, but at the same time put Mark Jazbec first at the head of SDH, and then at the head of Sava Re, forgive the impression it gives, Mr. Saiet as head of the “complaints” department at SDH or, I don't know, Mr. Žunič. Previously, you saw him at that bookcase where the Activa group was, almost in the middle, in the company of Vitiva, mentioned in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. Yeah, well, what kind of look does that give the government to oppose, I don't know, those who give them a second chance? It probably shows that it has not been done enough in this area. If it were, it would probably be a more judgmental judgment. And specifically, when the Vice-President of the National Assembly defended Mr. Pahor's rule. See, for what is found in the report has a basis in the witnesses' testimony before the commission of inquiry. They have a duty to bear witness to the truth. And I will read to you the testimony of the first crisis minister, Mr Gaspari, before the investigative commission when it asked if the action of the government in which it was itself, if it was appropriate, answered from today's point of view not and added, for the first time, we should recapitalise banks, secondly conditional on the recapitalisation of certain interventions in the Ljubljana Bank and, of course, immediately set up an internal bad bank to carry out bad claims, because he said that the government had missed, even more, the government of Borut Pahor had a bid from KBC to buy back the new Ljubljana Bank, and Mr Gaspari was because he said on the testimony, but did not convince us that the other government colleagues, Mr Križanič, the President of the Government, that the Bank of Slovenia had written to Borut Pahor in 2008 and that the Bank had written what you were saying about the proposal of the KGB, that he would say, that Slovenia would not listen to us, that it would be less responsible for a billion years ago, and that it would be worth it would cost us to KBC, and then to Krisanič, and the Bank to Poland, and then half-2011. And once again, the most absurd thing about the whole story is that those who are yelling today should not accept the commitment after the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, and how will you insist that you do not do so was this commitment made just because of you, but you know why? Because if you recapitalised the New Ljubljana Bank by 31 December 2010, this would not be considered State aid and there should be no commitment to sell the New Ljubljana Bank, and we are back there. Just see if a former finance minister says that the most structural deficit at the time of the government of Janez Janša and that he has made the biggest structural deficit, it is necessary to look at the specific data, pull out the documents of Eurostat as they are available on the website, find out that the most structural deficit was just under the government of Mr Pahor and Finance Minister Križanič, because I know that several members of the commission of inquiry came to work with a single view, because such a view was created in the media, when only one Government was to blame, but I also know that there were reasonable people working within, after they saw specific data when they listened to the testimony when they asked the witnesses when they read the documentation that it might not be as much as a winter slicker in this country, and in which 30 % of the citizens would not be able to do so, or whenever they heard the evidence. Now that someone is saying this when he didn't ask one question on the investigative committee, one question that he came to the investigative commission twice since the 70th meeting, and at the first session he said that because I know who did it, it was the government of Janez Janša, and that he did not, excuse me, one minute spent in a quiet room, to study documentation that is the first kind of documentation, such documentation that no one has ever had before, forgive me when I was a thousand 700 hours all together, when we studied it, but you know, this is what I think policy is that if you want to keep your eyes open, only some levels, because these slogans can't last, also in pre-election meetings, it's not a problem, but here in the National Assembly, but you do forgive, but operate on the basis of real data and not mislead the taxpayers, please. If you didn't have a minute of time, my fellow moon, if you didn't have one minute to come to look at the documentation on bell 1, bell 2, you could have done Mercator, you could have done the clock, anyone, whatever you suggested you would have asked me to do, whatever the members of the investigative commission suggested, we put it all together, the best thing to do is to get to the end when the job was already done, when I squandered a chair in my office, that foam tire out looking, come in, and so with your left hand swing, if you did a bad job, you collide those who support this report. Do you know what that means? You know what this means - that the 550-page violations in the bank mean nothing to someone in this country. The 550-page violations that have only led to billions and a half of damages in the New Ljubljana Bank mean a completely irrelevant matter for someone. Look, I'm concerned and it hurts because nothing changes in the system. We have repeatedly warned of anomalies and expected some kind of reaction. She wasn't! We have already proposed to set up a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime in November 2016. And here they said they agreed, Minister of Justice, the Prime Minister of the Government at the hearing said he agreed. Yeah, what were you doing? And that is why it is this political responsibility that nothing has been done in this area. See, in banks, for example, when we worked on the Farrokh case, which is now being studied by colleague Möderndorfer, there was the head of the Payment Transport Sector, Alenka Korča, when a billion Euros of funds of Iranian origin were implemented. But the lady is still in the bank today! On an individual contract, head of the sector! Even with a higher salary! If I'm not mistaken, the board found out she wasn't guilty, just like that, on stock, and it wasn't about money laundering. You can imagine! In the largest state bank that still has an auditor to review a credit risk that does not have an audit exam. Don't you get any alarms? It's just me. And that's what you have to say. And that's not a collaboration, that's the job we're paid for. If we come to any conclusions on the suspicion of crime or irregularities, we as public officials need to point out this. It is, however, necessary to obtain this information, perhaps to examine a piece of paper or to go to a quiet room where there is no sunlight, a flash of light, and bad air. But we have to do this because we have this opportunity because we have this opportunity and what we're paid for. And the last. I hope it was a word slip by the Vice-President of Parliament when he said at the time of his Government that the government's capital had been strengthened by an issueable deposit. Dear Mr German, the capital of banks is not reinforced by deposits. The bank's capital is the second category. Because if this were true as you claim, then the capital of the banks was exceptional at the time of your government, but it fell, fell, fell, and due to the late action and late recapitalisation we were then forced to accept state aid. This report has every decision based on documentary documentation, evidence from the field services, and also - this has to be commended - by the Government of Mir Cerar, who gave all the documentation we requested. The Ministry of Finance has even, as requested or proposed by the Commission of Inquiry, amended Article 33 of the ZUKSB, the Act on Measures for the Stability of Banks, and addressed the issue of liability for damages with an authentic explanation. She should be commended. But the Justice Department, unfortunately, didn't do what the investigative commission ordered. And that's why it has to be said that there is a responsibility. In this commission of inquiry - because I say when there is concrete responsibility, but you are all dissatisfied - we have not identified the good sides, the beautiful pictures on Instagram, I do not know what the success of the individual government, we have identified the reasons and reasons for the bank hole and why this hole was so big. We didn't have different criteria, we had the same criteria. Therefore, this suspicion that this commission of inquiry was intended for some SDS password is in no way justified because I had one vote of seven. One voice alone never weighs six other votes, the majority was of the coalition, and I must say that we have adopted the final report without a vote against. Without a vote against a member of the Left, the commission of inquiry did not even like to come to that meeting. [[background advertising]] Yeah, buddy moon, no. The one that's the loudest. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u29	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dr. Logar is beautiful in a three-part suit, but as the most active member of this call from the National Assembly, I won't allow myself to be so insulted in four years too much. Of the non-presidents, I was the man who was most hung in the basement, not just this one, and I went to some ministry to read TTIP, but I asked you all to lie about how you read it, and I saw there that there was almost nothing from the Ministry of Humans from all the Members and Members when I went there to read it, and I read it to Matthew. If Logar were to come out of Article 82 of the Constitution, there would be no Jani Commission. A serious policy, I agree here, colleague Logar, a serious policy is first strict to itself, then to its next to others. Mag. Grims didn't say anything about half a billion laundered money from the Italian mob being driven through the bank from where I come from, from Maribor, in five years. He said nothing about the fact that some 10 million went to Croatia from Janša’s recapitalized bank, and he said nothing about the attempt to turn it back through the tunnel. I was in Sarajevo on Monday, and I talked about it. I have a lot of resources, too. First, you need to create an auto-reflex, but you don't have it. But if we look at each other, Janša - Pahor. Jansa and Pahor are Siamese twins. Pahor loves Janša, Janša officially doesn't, and we know this story. You're all the name of the problem that you have to go to the dump and I'm not going to let anyone over talk about how much I don't read, in God's mother, twice have I fainted from working in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u31	Dr. Duck, now please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u32	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u33	Dr. Duck, I didn't understand your motion. I'm sorry. Your procedural proposal is? [[advertising from the hall]] I understand. Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u34	No, it's not procedural, as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u35	Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u36	Look, because it's okay, no, because the viewers are already making their impression, but all you have to say is, buddy Duck is not a member of the commission whose report we are taking today. So this was completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u37	Apologies, Mr. Ducky. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u38	The Commission is a member of Mr Mesec and Kordish. Now I don't know who's replacing who I was getting my own apologies for. Well, those excuses, but they apologized, and that's what needs to be stressed. But let's be correct here. I didn't tell anyone to read those documents. I made it clear you weren't reading, and then you were smart. That's what I've been reading. And come on, let's insist on some normal rhetoric. The moon's not green again.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u39	I agree, I understood Dr. Duck only his performance in the search for objectivity, because Dr. Trček is a member of other commissions, and one of you is not members of the SDS, so I understand his implementation as a search for objective truth, not just one truth, if I understand correctly. Please calm down. I don't know why you're so nervous today. Please hold this meeting in a calm and constructive spirit and, of course, objectively. The Word of Dr. Franz Ducky. Procedurally again. Please be brief and receptive to all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u40	Yes, look, as the chairman said nicely, we in Levica have made it very clear why we will not participate in this committee. He said the same thing to the SDS why he would not participate in Jani's commission, but now Luke Moon did not beat the SDS for ten minutes. It's an integral part of political practice in the National Assembly, and if someone's pushing, if someone's doing a theater now, you're doing it. I'm just not going to allow any more insults to this National Assembly, because, unlike the number of people who've been snooping around pubic areas, I've worked hard. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u41	Procedurally, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go. But let me repeat, you also have a chance to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u42	Yeah, look, I'm not going to discuss it procedurally. President, you are the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I ask you to start the session, objectively, and primarily to lead it, because these are not procedural. Today, we have a very serious report to have here, and maneuvers like that of the Left. Really, let's run the session. If there is a procedural proposal, there should be a formal procedural proposal. Now, who can find their own place, and that's his problem, and then say it after the debate. But see, today we have a very difficult and important report in the interest of citizens and citizens. Now, those who come to this National Assembly only occasionally should really take the time another time and then discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u43	That's your opinion. Dr. Duck, I'd like to continue the session. You have a procedural proposal, but please don't abuse it, because if you don't, I'll give you a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u44	No, I won't. I demand an apology for not coming to this National Assembly on occasion. In this National Assembly, I am most of all Members when I do not perform so-called parliamentary diplomacy abroad. And if someone makes a theater, a team of her colleagues does it "sham, shame, shame", so I expect her to apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u45	You heard Dr. Anžet Logar's procedural proposal that the entire debate be held at a public meeting. If anyone wishes to discuss the final report, the first non-disclosure equation, the final report, the second non-disclosure equation, and the additional final report, please inform me immediately. If there is no proposal, the meeting will be fully open. If anyone wants to close the session, please let me know immediately. If not, we will continue the debate in an open session. I see that there is no interest in closing the session, so I give the floor as the first Mr Luka Mesac, to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Mr. Moon, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u46	Yes, thank you for your word. I have heard more from the proposaler and the SDS about my absence from this investigative committee. Now, first of all, when you talk about presence and absence, clean up before your threshold. [[…]] We know very well who the least-presence Member is in this mandate. Sit right there behind Mr. Shirtzle, his name is Janša. Second time you're talking about my absence, don't read it to me like I didn't say in advance that I wouldn't be present or why I wouldn't be present. We have said that we will not participate in this committee, and the reason is quite simple. If I sum it up in one sentence, because a fox can't and can't investigate a henhouse. As the fox was investigating the henhouse, I explained it 15 minutes earlier, so I'm not going to repeat it. Thirdly, when Mr Logar tells me that I am not reading the report and that I do not know that the bell is mentioned I know that the bell is mentioned. But I tell Mr Logar and the report that Bell is not among the main findings. The biggest cause of the bank hole is not among the main findings and the key findings of this Commission are what we are voting on today. That's what I've been defining myself to do. Fourthly, when we talk about the work of this Commission, it is now the fact that Mr Logar has brought everything down to crime, but investigative commissions in the National Assembly it is right to investigate crime and we will also support that this is given to the investigating authorities to explore further, but there is something else in the work of the investigative commissions. It is also an investigation of political responsibility and I cannot go beyond what I said earlier in political responsibility. The political responsibility for the creation of the bank hole is mainly in 2005 and 2008, when Slovenia's external debt grew by EUR 14 billion, when private credits were created, which became weak during the crisis and shortly thereafter Slovenian public debt. It's just a simple story. And that's what you're trying to do with this committee. It is correct that you have helped to investigate cases of banking crime and in this I will support you, but I cannot agree in any way that you are trying to fully demarcate the responsibility of your then government for what was happening in the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian banking sector and the financial sector in general. I will not repeat what I said before, but the findings of this commission are what we have warned about in Levica, that is to try to dilute this responsibility and divide it into several governments. As far as your government is concerned, you write that it is the responsibility of the government of Janez Janša to fail to complete the privatisation of the NLB, which is complete nonsense. I made it clear earlier – the person in the private bank of KBC was in charge of managing problematic and risky investments in NKBM. He was the executive director for this. Would it help if NLB were completely private? Nothing at all. It would be the same. And a second time. You're saying it's only a responsibility that you're little, that you're objectively responsible for appointing supervisors. [[…]] Which means it's not the government's fault, it's the supervisors' fault. Where's all the other stuff?Oh, my God! Responsibility for overheating the economy [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] responsibility for wrong economic policies, responsibility for non-compliance with the agreement with the Bank of Slovenia on countercyclical economic policy, responsibility for tycunization for which you have made the basis of the law on management acquisitions. These are the political responsibilities that this Commission should take into account and not, so we cannot support this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u47	Mr. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek and Mr Jani Möderndorfer should be prepared. Mrs. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u48	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting. I usually felt that the commissions in the National Assembly were ineffective in their work. This time, I must say that this Commission has done its job well, so I thank the members of the Commission and also the professional colleagues, those whom we have proposed to the parties because they have also done a great deal, a great deal of work and have helped to detect these great illegalities. What exactly is happening to us in Slovenia? I have repeatedly said that state banks are ATMs for some dedicated people. I have to say, I was wrong, because probably no ATM goes as much money as it was stolen by various credits as we've heard about today. So I'm going to say that these are elegant bank robberies with the permission of the responsible persons. For elegant bank robberies. It is not permissible for someone to steal pâté or EUR 10 or EUR 1000, but it is even less permissible for someone to get credit for good connections, without coverage, without payment, without interest, with an extension and finally with a write-off. That's a really sad story. We have heard of commercial interest, and today, when citizens hear about these cases, I think that many of the riots, knee-deeply, are also begging us to allow it, perhaps even someone who is crying, crying because he was deprived of an apartment or a house that was unable to repay because he was either unable to obtain a loan or was unable to repay a loan. And there is no surprise to citizens who are saddened, disappointed by such a report or actions that have taken place. We also heard a report on the loan for the Stožice project. We hear many times: Ljubljana is the most beautiful city in the world. Of course, for each of us, the place where you live is the most beautiful, and Ljubljana is beautiful, and we can agree on that, as many tourists have found. And now I'm going to use a river that I'm going to soften up a little bit, because I'm a lady, as my colleague Jože Horvat says several times: It's easy to wave with a stranger to the nets. [[…]] So, with our money it's easy to afford such projects, and then not pay subcontractors, many people get into bankruptcy, into despair, into suicide, we've heard, into the destruction of families and so on. But, after all, we citizens and voters, those who love and those who don't vote and those who don't care at all, are guilty of the situation we have because I think no citizen who's afforded such manipulation should ever be elected again. If he does not already have enough political hygiene to give up a political function, he should never have been elected again. And they'll be re-elected because they've done so much good, so much good for our city, and with whose money, on whose account. Of course, I also understand that the Government did not want to sell the New Ljubljana Bank. There's always enough excuses. All governments have so far had an excuse for which we cannot sell. One time he's in a bad condition, one time he's having too much returns, one time he's, I don't know, I don't know what the reasons are, we have Croatian savers now. In short, there are always enough reasons. And that is why Europe is telling us, sell this bank already, because otherwise the country will be in crisis again because you are mismanaging it or because some people are stealing from it. And I believe that some are very concerned that the same option remains in power under this or another brand, under this or another new face, of course, not only because of the desire for power, but also because of the preservation of privileges and the concealment of things that have happened in the past. Therefore, they will do their utmost to remain the same under other forms of authority. Well, we heard yesterday in reports that foreign banks have sent reports on how much money our citizens have in foreign banks. Among other things, pensioners and those in the lowest income classes have millions of savings. Yeah, that's what we're asking ourselves, where and why. I hope it discovers where these millions are and that they will return to where they were taken. It probably won't be easy. But if that's what it's gonna be, then that's what's supposed to happen. And Nova Slovenija has already proposed a specialised state prosecutor's office, a specialised court for the detection of banking crime, in the first reading you even confirmed this, we have not carried it out to the end. Well, the interests from behind are that it doesn't happen. I don't care what political option comes from who stole, I want him punished and the money returned. Whether he's from the left or the right or he's a church person or he's someone else, he's a regular citizen who's had good connections. The theft is theft and the money has to be returned. We're gonna need him, and we need him in health. How many credits could we give to young people, who could then make a family, but we can't, and apartments, so not to talk about sad stories, about jobs. In short, this report should be an incentive for the action of the competent institutions, which have this role in ensuring order in the country, justice and fairness. And I expect it. And not only in this report do they detect the other lumbarities that you spoke of, of course, with some evidence, not in mind and not flattened and just like that. This is what citizens expect. We're gonna need that money anyway. He needs to be brought back and convicted of those who took him.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u49	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor, we are prepared by Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mrs Eva Irgl. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u50	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Mr. President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr. Ange Logar, with all the members of this commission, colleagues and colleagues. I am firmly convinced that today is one of the saddest days in the Republic of Slovenia, because we have obtained reports of how sick our country is. Of course, first of all, thanks and thanks on behalf of all those who have elected me to this National Assembly, to you, the distinguished President, and to all the members of the Commission. It's a lot of segments. It's about extraordinary work. It's about persistence. Above all, one wrote to me today, and the report is so presented that everyone in the Republic of Slovenia understands it. Of course, many who followed this report, at least some, have spoken to the opinion or position of the groups of Members, seem to me to have been wrapped up in some cellophane, some expertise that does not, most of the time, have nothing to do with this report. I was recently in an institution, in a public institution, where someone outside is cutting and I know him, and I knew he wasn't working there. And because it made me uncomfortable, I approached him and asked him what he was doing here. Sadly, though, he said that he had lost his job and that he owed something to the State, and he must do so. Of course he told me two segments. For the first time, he is sad that this has happened to him, and for the second time, he is happy that after this work he will not owe anyone anything. It's one of the citizens. Of course, we will arrive soon in a period where various policies in Slovenia will promise everything possible. Of course, we expected the likely pensioners to receive a higher pension for 2 euros, that they would have to clap. Of course, if someone gets a job, they still have to be kind of happy. But, dear colleagues and colleagues, when I spoke today about the reports on this sick country, we may not even be aware of what this report means today, regardless of the fact that my colleague Logar belongs to a party I belong to. We'll probably be aware of that in five or ten years. Of course, all the time we've been monitoring this investigative committee, we've heard the most about obstacles. If I were to compare it in health care, as if one expert would not give a test to these people, of course, which we have chosen in this National Assembly, and who have carried out this important segment for our future. Nevertheless, their persistence, I repeat, will be reflected in the future of 5 or 10 years, I am sure. Of course, today we have heard of great names that we can call bankers. Last night, when I was late watching a diary, one of them announced that he was going to the polls just so that someone didn't win. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today is an important day for the reputation of this National Assembly and for the future of Slovenia. I repeat, above all, I am proud that this report has been made public so qualitatively that it can be felt and understood by every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. And, of course, if I compare this country with one large catch of water, of course, we are all under this cover and all the way we find that we are running out of water, that there is too little water, that there is a large reservoir running out of water, that the water is leaking somewhere, and we are looking for additional sources in the Republic of Slovenia. From this day forward, in this great Republic of Slovenia, all the pipes, locations and names must be covered today by the investigative commission to present to us, until the end of the water tank, there will be no need to look for additional sources and life in the Republic of Slovenia can be significantly easier and more pleasant for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Dr. Logar, thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u51	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl and Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Vice President. At the beginning of his introduction, the President of the Commission and, last but not least, the rapporteur of this report began with a magnetogram of how we defined ourselves to the question of the Commission when it was set up and what our thinking is. Of course, he also mentioned my name and, of course, he also made very correct my claims, which I accompanied by not supporting this commission, but not because I did not want the bank hole to be investigated far away from it. But because I simply did not understand according to the old practice of investigative commissions how they would be, which started and then the piano ended and which had more or less political motives in the past. If anyone asks me today, I am glad that this has not happened and that is why I do not actually have any bad conscience, even more, I can say that we have actually witnessed the last month's debates of three different reports by investigative commissions that actually receive high acclamation support in this National Assembly. Of course, what is more than clear and eloquent about the fact that it is likely that the way of thinking from past mandates has also been exceeded, of course, that the Commission of Inquiry must, of course, go a step further than the political prestige that any party having the honour to lead it would, of course, be able to do with it and also take it. However, that I had reason to think this way is incontrovertible and I was very careful and I am one of those who read the report and also read the closed section of what the Commission was actually doing, and I must say that I have accompanied most of the debates or hearings with great interest. Because I think, not just me, but most Members and, of course, most of the population in our country don't really care and they don't understand as much as my predecessor said, this report, in particular, they don't understand how this could have happened at all, it's a fact. And look, in 2011, we witnessed an investigative commission that actually made a report on 40 pages. We were talking about Ultra's story, and it was sang that it was a crazy loan operation. And one of the conclusions that was then on this commission of inquiry - it is only and only a lesson and an explanation of why my comment was so - was: “The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the majority owner of the New Ljubljana Bank through the supervisory institutions, to fully verify the functioning of this bank, with an emphasis on controlling the allocation of politically motivated loans.” All well and well, then, I quote: “The National Assembly proposes to the Government that the Bank of Slovenia, which is solely owned by the State, verify its implementation of Article 11 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, which states, inter alia, that the Bank of Slovenia is responsible for the overall liquidity of the banking system in the country and that it is consistently determined in the decision to assess the losses of credit risks to banks and savings banks due to the loan of Ultra.” I expected, given that this report - by the way, this report was never considered without acceptance, even more - was withdrawn - given to Udis, without even being considered by the then investigative commission, that we would know, we are talking about President Rudolph Petan, who put this report himself in Udis, and then everyone was wondering where this report was from now, if no one had ever considered it or accepted it on the investigative commission. That's one of the reasons why I said I found it hard to believe in investigative committees to finish their work. That is why I expected that there would also be an Ultra theme within this investigative commission, which influences and assesses the losses of the credit risk of Slovenian banks and savings banks, because it was such an important question. Of course, there was no question of this, because at the time of the commission of inquiry, it turned out that these stories were, in fact, uncomparably broader and more horrifying than they had come across. Another thing that seems very important to me. The Commission of Inquiry found responsibility virtually until the beginning of the bank hole until today, when it found out where the systems were failing and who, in fact, was indirectly, subjectively or objectively responsible for certain steps that had not taken place. And it notes, as the President says - and I strongly agree with this - that the Commission is not set up to find out how someone was good, good and deserved and perhaps even to praise him with a decision because he did his job well. No, these praises, and that's what we're seeing in the elections, because if you were good, the commission of inquiry has other tasks and other duties. But this commission of inquiry has done something that I do not like most, not because I would not agree with it - that there will be no mistake, I will support the conclusions and the report - but somehow I do not like to see you, I will say, collective responsibility, we are all guilty and so on. Yeah, but you always know where it all started, where it all started. And if there is no cause, there are no consequences, or the consequences may be different. Of course, then, it also measures who, when, and where, at what stage, he was determined, where any other thing could be fixed or stopped in time. Although the Commission also points out that, last but not least, in its opening speech today, the President also made it very clear when he could, but he did not - I am talking about the purely specific responsibility of individuals - which is correct. But now we can't just throw it all in one basket and say it, but now we're all guilty. Yes, it can be a fault, because, you know, when someone does something wrong, then the matter becomes potential, and this potential is expanding, but I don't like to see that in the end we're somehow all pious, in the end we're all a little guilty, let's face it, and now let's give the papers to the prosecution and the law enforcement authorities to do what they have to do. The Commission of Inquiry must identify political responsibility, propose systemic changes, and have done so. Now, as she did, that's the second question; I'm just trying to warn you that I'd make some more determination, in what way. Nevertheless, the president tells us how many hours they sat, how many meetings they had, how many hearings they had, not the last report, which is fat, speaks very eloquently of how much work was done. Although the quantity does not reflect quality, it does not reflect the size of the documents available to the Commission, it is almost impossible to be otherwise, because in fact you cannot get such work done on the 40th page, such as this was about Ultra, quite a funny report, something. [[Incomprehensible]] And that's why, of course, I'd be more willing to define these things more. Not only is it that all those who later assume certain functions will be aware that they are in the end, but they will not be least responsible if they do not do so as is necessary. Because I have a feeling, but you know, if 20 years ago or 15 years ago it was still considered that banking error or responsibility was very difficult to process because of our legislation, because no one wanted to do that, because everything in our system has been going on too long, despite the fact that we are not satisfied that only three bankers actually got their legal epilogue, and the question of how this will continue with the complaints and everything else. Two, I'm sorry, yes. It's very important that we do, because 10 years ago we weren't two. Yesterday I listened to a gentleman at the Odessa who said there were 38 of them in the process. More! Once again in the forecasting process where they are reviewed. Whether these procedures go too slowly and so on, we can all agree that they are going too slowly, but we have the system that we have. We have so many instances, complaints, everything with a goal, that of course we will have the opportunity or that they will have the right to defend themselves. What do I miss in this report? Let me give you an example, I'm missing some very interesting, reverberating cases like the Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board. At least after this list we have with us, I went to look at it again, and all the witnesses who were invited, in fact, he was not even invited, and he was then Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board. I am missing, given that he even had banking and credit transactions, and was, as such, involved in the system, I am missing Mr Tomaž Jeršič, who went into personal bankruptcy, and did not borrow a little money when he was actually one of those parts that should be answered. Indeed, it seems to me that we have only talked about large systems, not those thereals or smaller ones, which are also important, especially because they were even political officials during their operations and operations. This particular one was the Secretary of State. This seems to me to be such an interesting piece of information that would make sense to me, and I went to look at it, and it wasn't among the witnesses either. Now, it could have been hidden, but I don't know. No, I don't know, I don't even know what he would say as a secret witness, or I could say, well, I'm not even going to go into it. But it's very important to me that these topics open up too. Indeed, Mr P. Damjan, whom we all know in this Chamber, who is very fond of writing articles and describing and commenting, whether we agree or disagree with him, says one very interesting case. This is an article in 2013, and if I read it today, I wouldn't really be able to do much or have to change it. Indeed, in 2014, he wrote that this is now the current topic of the bank hole, because the commission of inquiry will also do its part, and recently, 2, 3 days ago, it was republished, just as, in fact, as if it could be written yesterday, it was written four years ago. And in fact, it lists a series of cases for a bank hole that the investigative commission has not even opened up the subject. Let's say what I know, I take Istrabenz over there, I see Mr. Predaliè, as then Secretary-General of the Government, he was never invited as a witness to an investigative committee, and he fought madly to take over Istrabenz, but if he was, uh, no, then let's say, we have an Intereuropa here, we have a lot of topics that would have been, let's say, quite interesting. [[…]] Also, just as interesting as the article that was written, these are not my findings, but just as a thought. Then let's say one year before this article comes along, and of course it also writes an interesting sentence that is not, I will say, in some way also confirms what my colleague Logar is actually saying in his introduction, and I strongly agree with it, and we must not forget this when we are discussing or discussing the fault of creating a bank hole. I quote. This is one piece from P. Damian when he says: "In the last month, a political debate has become intensely heated about who has been the most prominent of Slovenian banks, left or right. Prime Minister Janez Janša" - was then president, the article from those times - "was very categorical about the formation of the bank hole. It consists of 16 connected conglomerates, which are mainly owned by Forum 21 members, the hole has clearly identifiable botts and colors. In doing so, he would base his claims on the strictly confidential construction of the Bank of Slovenia. The situation in the Slovenian banking system on the condition of banks' poor claims at the end of May 2012, well, of course, the report was leaking to the public last September. And what did this report show? Above all, it is embarrassing that the figures on the largest debtors do not endorse John Janša’s claim.« In fact, now his quote: “All were guilty of having the opportunity to participate in the cheap money at the time, regardless of whether they were left, right, middle, red, black, yellow, neutral, all those who smelled the money that had the opportunity and who had the botts to watch the site at the time when they could actually participate.” Very few of these honest people were involved. And this needs to be poured out of pure wine, and regardless of whether we are here in different colors, political, ideological stories, this part of the task has actually shown this wide range of chastity. I believe she could not have done that she literally invited everyone for the witness and brought everyone in before some form of defense or determination, but she showed that the bank hole had actually begun during the time of the government of Janez Janša. Not that the government would allow credits, as one of the experts who deals with this area says, says the following, and many times we find that in the investigative commissions, it doesn't matter whether an excuse, I didn't know and I wasn't aware. That can't be an apology. There is no excuse, as you know, even in one case we have just dealt with it recently, and we will meet with it very soon when someone didn't even want to open the mail when they actually needed to get to know the content. That's what the government has to start. Finally, during the time of the government of Janez Jaše, the supervisory councils of all state banks were replaced. One administration has even been replaced, and yet this has happened. Thus, this responsibility is very important and, last but not least, in the next governments, the exact same thing has happened. So, I hope and believe, because I have no choice but to find that, if not the other, at least this call of the National Assembly has become so mature that it can take one step forward and confess and find out, first of all, that in fact, mistakes have been made by different governments, but mistakes are known where they begin and who has continued them or who has not reacted. This, of course, is also a further discussion, that, of course, it is also a different way of dealing in such a case where someone is to blame for something. However, if not the other, the report is not only interesting for the prosecution and the law enforcement authorities and later, if the courts deal with it, the material is also interesting for all Members of the following mandates, as it will in fact show some new way, the principle of how to work on the Commission. I'm in the investigation. I'm talking. I think this is very sincere, because there is one measure of progress in contrast to the previous commissions, which were in fact some kind of tool of the opposition. Today I hope not. I would like to comment on just one more sentence from the work when the president of the Commission says: "The right of citizens to know, and this report, including this closed part, should actually become public." I think it's right that this is an open discussion. In such a case, we should, of course, amend the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and further clarify certain procedures carried out by the Commission of Inquiry if we would really like to do so. Then we are very close to when, you know, the court is investigating something, and then in the end the judgment becomes public and is open to everyone and any citizen can read it if he wants it. In this case, and especially in such cases, because we are actually talking about the great value of funds, and not least, when things become clear, this is a kind of warning to everyone later that they can't argue that they didn't know or were aware of what they shouldn't, because it once happened. It is right that the discussion is also open to this subject. Whether the next Parliament or Parliament will do so after it, I don't know. Personally, I'd like certain things to open up, unless it's a matter of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u53	The text is by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Now, I think, given the implementation, it is absolutely necessary to provide some clarifications. In identifying political responsibility, we have very clearly identified individual political responsibility for the individual government. So it's not general, but some just for something, some for a little bit more, some for late action, some for subjective responsibility. So there is no generalisation in identifying political responsibility, and this needs to be stressed. It should be borne in mind that in the New Ljubljana Bank, the credit committee takes up to 2,000 decisions a year. After three years, from 1997 to 2015 [[?]] , count how many years this is and how many credit decisions are in here. In this case, the Commission of Inquiry cannot deal with just any case, not just every case that has been media-exposed. As for the witnesses, who else could have been questioned and who could not have been, there was absolute democracy here in the commission of inquiry. I think that colleague Krajnc and colleague Marija Antonija Kovacič will confirm this that anyone who proposed to anyone, we have placed him on the list of hearings and then we have also heard him if he has not avoided the hearing. Indeed, none of them proposed Mr Jeršič, but they did, for example, that no one proposed Simone Dimic among them and also this case, which is infamous and perhaps someone would expect him, has not been dealt with by the commission of inquiry. No one has also proposed the case of Istrabenz or Intereurope, and no one has proposed that we look into the case of Ultra or the example of the Olympic Basketball Club. Such stories, if you start dealing with everyone, and you list someone who hasn't investigated anything, then you lose the red thread of this investigative commission. The Commission of Inquiry is on 22 specific cases, some of them weighing, as you know, a colleague of Möderndorfer is investigating, and a billion euros, and then individual credit proposals of EUR 50 million, and so on. And through these cases, where, I will say, very clearly, they have shown that individuals who are members of the board are actually or are personally involved in a credit transaction, which has been highly speculative, they have shown what practice has actually been carried out in these banks. However, I am aware that each of these reports and these essential findings understands differently. For example, colleague Jani understands that the majority of the bank hole or that it started in the government of Janez Janša. Someone else can understand this that the bank hole began at a time when Mr Gaspari was led by the regulator, when no credit risk was reviewed and anything happened in the banks was allowed to happen, including the wives of the vice-governors who controlled the bank risks at the same time as senior employees in one of the banks and owned the same bank from 1998 onwards. So there's a lot of these interpretations. I personally see the cause of the bank hole in that after 1997, all governments, therefore, after the first bank recovery, did not, without compromise, sanction the culprits for the creation of that bank first hole. And that these same people stayed in the banking system. And it made some sense that if you steal big, so if you do everything in the bank you can do and if you're doing big enough, nothing's going to happen to you. And now we're at this stage when we can confirm this again the second time if nothing happens. It is therefore so important to sanction those responsible for this second bank hole and, in some way, to contribute to this investigative commission, as long as it is supported by the members of the National Assembly, it is in order to direct the blame of the individual in these administrations, but also, of course, the political responsibility that it will not be possible to speak, yes, I am innocent and you are guilty. So much in that sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u55	Replica Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u56	Maybe Comrade Logar didn't understand me very well, but that's not why. Or maybe he did, and maybe I was a little too vague. I'll be very direct now. We have a former MP, former Minister Krizanic, who is still saying today that the bank holes weren't really like that, do you understand me? This is the minister who, in fact, when there was a moment of truth, and he could have done it, he didn't do it. That's what's important to me. I've been talking about the Yang government, the SDS only since the deadline, if you remember the part where I explain it, we didn't know. Of course not, because I believe that Janez Janša did not sit in his office and receive daily information about who hired the loan, please, as no Prime Minister gets it. But that's why he had a minister who worked together and reviewed and got information about what was going on with state banks, not least as the owner. Finally, the country is the one who appointed members of the supervisory board and similar things. And remember, there was a time when the government represented the congregation directly. SDH hasn't been in the game yet. That's what I'm talking about. And that, for example, is the exposure, the weight of the responsibility, that's all it's about. Otherwise, at the principle level, I have no problem with this commission and this report far from it. More than that, you've done well. I made it very clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u57	Mrs Eva Irgl has the floor to prepare for Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! Today, in this National Assembly, we are considering, in my opinion, the most important report of this mandate. Not only because the Commission of Inquiry has done the work that the authorities should otherwise detect and prosecute, but especially because of the severity of the findings. Earlier, a fellow Logar very plastic intro showed what was going on inside and outside the banking system, because here it was related things, what kind of crime inside the banks was going on. And the fact is, no one's ever been convicted before. We do have one, I think two or three cases of a legal conviction, but this is really such a minimal thing. This is probably also agreed with colleague Möderndorfer, who mentioned this earlier. In short, those key players are walking peacefully around this Slovenia and no one will be harmed if in Iceland today all those mentioned earlier in the introduction were probably already sitting behind bars. Now, I have also run an investigative committee years ago, and I know how demanding such a deal is if I say so, but what my colleague Logar did is of course even more difficult, even in view of all the documentation that they had to read, that today can really act in a credible manner before this National Assembly and that he can make credible observations to the investigative commission, which, as far as I can see today, stands in fact the coalition and opposition other than the Left, which, in any case, did not participate or apologize once again, and, on the other hand, has a great deal to say how it worked in this committee. Now, if we look at quickly what the findings of this report are, in fact, I have read very carefully the report that speaks of political responsibility, that is roughly what I think is 100 pages, of course in addition to the other reports, and that is why I would lean here primarily on this part. See, in the years between, the period between 97 and 2000, the policy did not demonstrate the political will to determine the responsibility and sanction those responsible for the creation of the first bank hole, and here is the key problem, which has been identified several times today, the fact that this has created the conditions for the creation of the second bank hole two decades later. And then citizens and citizens have saved this more than 5 billion worth of a bank hole, of which every citizen has put about 2 000 500 euros to be rehabilitated. The fact is that, in the 2004-2008 mandate, the government failed to complete the privatisation of the New Ljubljanska Bank and thus allowed old practices to be maintained in the largest state bank, thus criticising the Government, which was active in 2004-2008. The supervisory boards of the majority state-owned banks in the period 2002-2013 are objectively and subjectively responsible for poorly managed supervision of bank transactions in the banks they supervised. Bank expansion has only reinforced the implementation of poor banking practices, that is, the findings of the Commission of Inquiry. The next key point is that for inappropriate and late action between 2004 and 2013, Banka Slovenije has an objective responsibility, governor, vice-governors who have covered the supervision of banking as well as subjective responsibility. The fact is, colleagues and colleagues, that in this country all the supervisory mechanisms, the regulator, Banka Slovenije in this case, have cancelled their work and should not have done it, why not? The question is, but the Commission of Inquiry has been very good at divisively dividing all of this and also explaining why the work has not been done. Secondly, it was not done by those who should exercise supervision in banks, the banks' administrations have cancelled, in short, all those who have somehow acted in this system have stepped down, I will say, beyond internal rules, as has been proven, this has been proven to be for supervisors in banks and for bankers who have violated internal rules, they have treated this recklessly and irresponsiblely and have also done harm to the state and citizens and citizens, and it is necessary to say so out loud. The next conclusion, which I think is crucial to this report, is that in the first period of the crisis, after 2008 the government devoted too little attention to the stability of the banking system, even more so, those who have read this report carefully on political responsibility could see that even at the hearing before the commission of inquiry, then the Minister of Finance, Mr Križanič, says today that everything was ok in the banking system. Those are his words. Everything was fine in the banking system. And this was the finance minister, although both the bank and other institutions warned him that this was not the case. And here I will say that Mr Marko Simoneti, before the Commission of Inquiry on Bank Abuses, said that the Minister's view was very valuable, very different, from their view of the actual situation in the bank. [[…]] Thus, the political responsibility of former Minister Franz Krizanic is great. He claims today that everything in the banking system has been okay, and although citizens and citizens have healed him twice by now, I am afraid they will have to do it for the third time. Then, look, the Borut Pahor government has an objective responsibility for the inappropriate structure of the banking system, given the difficulties of Slovenian banks. Here too, it must be said that Mr Kovacic had before the investigative commission, whose investigative commission would also be criminally incriminating, but he said something interesting and confirmed that the investigative commission had made the correct conclusion when it found the subjective and objective responsibility of the former President of the Government, now the President of the State. Look, Mr Kovacic said that the then Prime Minister had been proposed, I think at least 15 legal solutions to make things better in the banking system. But, interestingly, none of them were accepted. Not one measure at all, not one solution at all. Not only did the then President of the Government react non-chalantly, then, um, it is said that this does not concern him, but the President of the Government has obviously acted knowingly irresponsiblely, recklessly, but particularly harmful to citizens and citizens. And, of course, it must have had consequences for such a condition that helped to maintain it and did not react when it was absolutely necessary. And now it's too much to pretend here whether it's wise to talk about political responsibility or who's responsible and who's not. You can see clearly who is most responsible for the situation at that time. And when this policy achieves that the political officials who have made the most of their decisions in such cases, including sanctions, will be properly sanctioned, then we will take a step forward in our thinking, as well as in the sense of the rule of law, and especially in the rule of law. This is certainly what citizens and citizens want. Given that we have, we have, we do not have enough time and that other colleagues are waiting for the debate, I will stop here, although I would have, I had a few more key points in this report, but the important thing is that this commission has done an extraordinary job, only I can thank her for having spent so much time reading the documentation that we can live in a healthier, more responsible and more just society over time. [[…]] [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u59	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Let Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Janko Weber prepare. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, I think it is right that I also publicly invite all Slovenians and Slovenians, in the hope that today they have looked at what Dr. Ange Logar presented. I am sure that our Slovenians and Slovenians in what Dr. Anže Logar said today, when he presented the position of the commission of inquiry, could create their own opinion on how the Slovenian state works and who is the one who controls this Slovenian state as a mafia. And indeed all the Slovenes and Slovenes in our country are in fact calling, and I ask that, on the basis of what they have heard today, even on the basis of this, they no longer possess those who offer us such and different faces that come with some quasi solutions in each election, and the parties they find here, especially here, are extremely exposed to the SD, the United Left or whatever, about the Left would not lose words at all, because there are people who do not have minutes of working time and are trying to tell the Slovenian people how it should work, I think it is from below every level. There are people there who truly live with their opinions on the Moon. Let me get back to the report. What my dear colleague, Dr. Ange Logar, President of this Commission, has said today, has highlighted, among other things, one of the most important things - he has pointed out to the prosecution, to the judiciary, to the authorities, to the regime's lawyers, to the policies behind these parties, which I mentioned earlier, to the police, to the National Investigation Office and so on. To this end, because of what Dr. Ange Logar said today, how the three judges of the higher court could have taken such absurd solutions that even a three - year - old child would not have been able to convince him that this was the case. It is said that there is a link in the back, which has one common line and has a common money under the line, or else a person simply cannot explain it to himself. Otherwise, you cannot explain that such decisions can be made in our courts. That is why the situation in our country is the same as it is, and the judiciary has only 25% of its support. Then we really have to ask ourselves. Look, any government, including the current Mira Cerar, has done absolutely nothing to improve this percentage of people's trust in the judiciary. If we have a judicial branch of power, these people we are talking about today, and these are primarily responsible people, with a name and surname, very well known, these are the Presidents of the Supervisory Councils, the Supervisory Councils, not to speak, the Presidents of the administrations, their associates, we are talking about members of the administrations and so on. If things were to go in the right direction, you should have been where they belong today. It is simply incomprehensible and unacceptable that nothing has happened until now. Otherwise, if everything worked as it did in our society, we would not have had these problems for a long time now, and we would not be discussing such a report today in the National Assembly. Here we see that throughout the story, there are always one and the same people. If we look at all these socialist governments, we don't see anything more practical than the fact that the same people are spinning around here, and we hear the name Hazabend, and we still hear the name Kramar, Veselinović, Draganja, Jankovic, Zemljarič, Isailović, Križanič, Vice-Governor Festić and so on, I wouldn't mention these last names anymore. And it's always the same story, same people. And today the session was about some things being put in the right place, but their key problem is human rights policy, the same people in key positions that have everything in their hands to practically drive things the way they thought they would. This is a para-state, with the support of the work of the executive branch of power and the work of these political parties who are today in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is precisely why we keep reminding these people of this problem and that the government, whoever runs this country, must remove these people from these circles. He's got to! If she doesn't do it -- so, the government, I'm not saying it now, I'm sorry, where the government has a majority of the possibilities, where they are called control councils, I'm talking about DUTB, about companies with 100% state ownership, where the government has an influence -- shouldn't let these people in. Look, let's say, just Dragone's case. One Dragon, another Dragon, one director of the 2TDK. Look at the money that's turning around and what kind of money these people are getting, and so on. And they've got all the hunters, practically everything connected, they've only got the moves that come to mind on the chessboard, and the money's leaking out, and it's leaking, and it's leaking. Citizens and citizens will again be the ones to pay for all of this. Look, if this money hadn't been stolen from this system, what kind of pensions could it be today. We wouldn't be talking here about pensions being 400 euros or 700, 800 or more, so that people could live off it. We would not have such a low minimum wage, we would have a much more developed, quality-developed economy where the economy would have significantly higher added value and people could have significantly better wages, the standard would be significantly better. Not to mention all the other problems we have because too much money is being stolen. We wouldn't have waiting rows like we have. We wouldn't have the condition that people have been waiting three years for some intervention, and so on, if there was enough money for them to normally hire doctors, extra nurses, and so on, and so on. If that money hadn't been stolen. If this money remained in the system, we could do all this and today we would not have these problems and Slovenia would be where it belongs, as we said we were approaching Switzerland. But no, we have the structure that I just talked about, that runs the para-state in the background, and here, of course, Forum 21 has an extremely important role to play. The most sung person, over and over again, Mr Kučan and the privileged. These together have tremendous power. Forum 21. If you remember what happened on Ptuj in Peru, Mr. Glaser. Look, nobody gets hurt and they can do what they want. What a country we are! And then there's someone here who still trusts me to defend this shit, this big shit. And I ask and hope that the Slovenian people will be truly, I tell you, in these elections, overlooked and that these parties, who are, definitely, 95% of them, are also responsible for their work of political responsibility for the situation, because in the whole system, if we look at it, the SDS in the government has been practically four years since 26, 27 years. One year when we were in the middle, you couldn't do anything anyway, because they practically tied our hands because they put state finances in a situation where we didn't really know if we could pay our pensions, and so on, and so on. So we solved the problem. And see, once again, what we have heard today by the President of the Commission of Inquiry must really lead us to do something in our society. In the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time, I stress this once again, we point out this and that is why we have such problems. Look what's going on with Jankovic. Mr Jankovic's son is going into personal bankruptcy, he is written off 6.7 million and 16 million, and so on. Who's paying for this? Force, for example, Electa, and so on. Well, look where we live.Oh, my God! And now we have enough reason to wonder why Zoran Jankovic said he had to do everything to prevent Janez Janša's victory. Sure, why? Because he's afraid we're gonna cut this shit. This mess has to be cut off, someone has to, and I'm sure this Slovenian Democratic Party with our President Janez Janša can do it. And that's why such attacks by Jankovic and the entire left can be activated to prevent someone from coming who is concerned with the matter of the Slovenian people and the Slovenian people. [[Incomprehensible]] You want to stop it in any way. And believe me, and I call upon all the Slovenian people, I really urge them to react as necessary this time, and to prevent things from going this way, as they have now gone, in order to prevent further thefts. And if something does not happen now in these elections, we will really have this problem that we will be able to re-enter the situation when we have to recapitalise the New Bank of Ljubljana with two, three, four billion. This coalition has done absolutely nothing to carry out the sale process of the New Ljubljana Bank. More than that, she was looking for a million and one reason why to do and deceive the European Commission so that this would not happen. And that's just because they have their ATM in there and you have to cut it off. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we guarantee that if we get the next government in our hands, we will make the order that needs to be done here. All those, all the customers, all those individuals who are sitting in here and who will continue to sit in here, please and I hope and believe in you that we will come to this important issue together and realize what the Commission of Inquiry has written in its conclusions. It is said that we will establish a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime within the framework of the organisation of the judiciary, etc., and I will not read all the conclusions. Mainly, I believe that we can do this, that we can do it together, and if we do it together, I believe that we will once cross this story, and Slovenia will start breathing, and those of our poor pensioners who at the moment cannot live, those with minimum wages, the part that is crucial to the development and future of our country, but the economy, to enable them to function normally, to lower taxes, etc., etc. And once again, I am convinced that it is also important that we come to these solutions, as well, this report that we are discussing today and thanking the Commission, Dr. Anžet Logar, that they have indeed done their work in maximum, highest, fair and fair. I hope that the right moment comes, 3 June, so that we can cut through what has happened in the past in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u61	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare the gentlemen, Janko Weber and Zvonko Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the other rehabilitation of Slovenian banks today, when we talk about a bank hole, we don't talk about the bankers they caused, we don't talk about the members of the administrations in these banks, we don't talk about the members of the supervisory boards of these banks, we don't talk about the judges, we don't talk about the investigative authorities that made it possible with their cooperation, with their inactivity. We're not talking about these, let's call them by their real name, the mob. This is the mob that directly stole billions of euros from Slovenians and Slovenes from their pockets. Those people who were exposed today, that's the mob. They act like a mob, they're organized as a mob, and most importantly, they don't answer to the law as a mob. In short, today we are talking about the mafia, which stole the future from the Slovenes and the Slovenians because of the theft of money, not for the first time. It's been going on for years and years, back in the old country. And when the report was written and the work of politics done, the work of the Members was done thanks to the Commission, thanks to my fellow Member, Dr. Anget Logar, who closed his mouth to all skeptics in his work, so that it could not be achieved that no one was responsible for anything, he closed their mouth with this report and with the conclusions confirmed today. Dear citizens and citizens! We've done our part. Now, however, there is persecution on the authorities to take this report seriously and to do their part. And that when we read a magnetogram of this session after a while or watch it and see the words of Anget Logar, do you imagine that in Slovenia they condemn the people he wrote in this report for years of imprisonment. If you imagine that, then Slovenia is a normal country, if you're not, then it's not. For once, I can't imagine, but this report is the first step in this direction by this Commission of Inquiry. We have done our part by confirming this report today. Now there is persecution on the authorities, in the courts, in the prosecution to do their part. Of course, it's a question of how they're going to do it, who's going to get it in their hands. Whether she'll get Blanka Žgijner or some similar prosecutor. We know that Harry Furlan, who knows about the marmalade, will get it in his hands, not just with his finger, but somewhere else. We have also talked about this when we had on the table the report of Mrs Jelka Godec's investigative commission, where we know how his brother is involved in the supply of veins and other materials. In the final essential findings, everything is written. Objective responsibility, subjective responsibility. And if the authorities of persecution do their own thing, and the sad thing is that they have not already done it. Because if they did, then the media yesterday wouldn't report Zoran Jankovic going to the polls, but they would report that he's going to jail because of all the shit that's going on because of the modus operandi that's always the same. The only difference is that he calls the NLB once to grant credit. In the past, he called, for example, as the Commission of Inquiry then found, Mrs Nelido German, to arrange for President Hit after Elekta, the mother of today's Vice-President of the German National Assembly. In short, the modus operandi is the same. 25 years ago, 50 years ago. For everything else, see the witnesses where Mr Rado Pezdir appeared and finally Mr Tomaž Štich. And after you read this report, and when you find that they are essentially the main two culprits, one is the government of Borut Pahor, who has made such a situation possible, which has not taken action until the time, and the other is the government of Mira Cerar, who does nothing to keep the mob from flying, then you can understand why Ljubljana's Mayor Zoran Jankovic is still thinking or going, how he would go, who he would support, or the Social Democrats or SMC in the upcoming elections. Social Democrats allowed him to do what he did in Ljubljana. The modern centre's client, however, provides him with judicial protection so that nothing happens to him, that procedural errors occur, that lawsuits be filed later than they should, that the matter falls and so on. And, ladies and gentlemen, if you want this mob to continue to run Slovenia, or if nothing happens to it, they won't answer anything, then on June 3rd, you vote for the Social Democrats, you vote for the Modern Centre Party. Both guarantee that Nova Ljubljanska Banka will not be sold, that it will remain state-owned, that it will continue to be a private ATM to those mentioned in this report. But you can vote for the Slovenian Democratic Party and we will end this story. And that's why this mob is afraid that Janez Janša will win the elections and the Slovenian Democratic Party will win the elections. Zoran Jankovic himself said that I would do anything to keep Janez Janša from winning. Okay, but tell me the truth why you're gonna do it. Because Ljubljana has taken one third of the funds. We know why, we know what happened to regional development, and that's what it was. To tell the truth, as he said, I think on one of the Serbian televisions in an interview, I am not afraid of prosecution and will never answer for anything because I oppose Janez Janša. And as long as Slovenia is governed by the left government, Zoran Jankovic and similar calibers are safe. However, if you want to one day get the epilogue of what the report says, so that those who have broken the laws that have acted corruptly will have to sit on the Age or elsewhere to bring some money back, then on 3 June you will surround the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we will and we will set up a court in the programme that will deal with it, in this mandate Parliament has already had this opportunity, because of the ruling coalition such a specialised court has not been established and until such crime is investigated by Hari Furlan and similar to him, ladies and gentlemen, then the answer to the question raised by Dr. Ange Logar, or you imagine that once in the report they will be sentenced to years of imprisonment, no. However, if there are changes in the direction I said before, I believe that Slovenia will once again be a normal country where the rule of law will be the rule of law, where the rule of law will take precedence. Once again, my colleague Anja, sincere congratulations and also to all of you who have been involved in exposing this mob.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u63	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get Mr. Zvonko Lah ready and Mag. Bojan Krajnc. Mr. Weber, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u64	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I have to make it very clear in the introduction that this investigation of the bank hole and the report that is in front of us is actually blurring the real picture, so I also gave a separate opinion on the Commission's report, why is it going? It is trying to sell, mainly from a party of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that the main problem in a bank hole, banking crime, is this problem, but right now the suspicion of banking crime is valued at only 200 million, and the bank hole was calculated at 5.1 billion, so where are those, this difference, where is 4.9 billion in this hole? It is only in this report that banking crime is dealt with in the amount of EUR 200 million. 4.9 billion, however, must also be sought by allowing enormous indebtedness to the economy within the 2004-2008 mandate. And here the regulator of Banka Slovenije has done nothing to stop this, even within the 2004-2008 mandate, a two-year transitional period for the lease of so-called tycoon loans has been enacted, no one has restricted them in this mandate, without adequate insurance, these loans have been leased. And, of course, this was followed by the Bank of Slovenia, with close support from the European Commission and the European Central Bank. This report, of course, does not address it to the extent that I wanted to. And then actually through Banka Slovenije the calculation of the excess volume of the bank hole, namely the enormous debt, then the enormous bank hole and then the miraculous establishment of the so-called bad bank, which is written down at one time by all of these, from all these credits submitted in the period 2004-2008, or a large part of these loans, 70 % of the amount of credit is written off, bad for the establishment of a bad bank. And this is the reason for this €4.9 billion, and if I add to it the catastrophic activity of the Slovenian state holding company under the auspices of the current Government of Mir Cerar and the leadership of Lydia Glavin, who sold, say, Helios in a way that the foreigner earned three years from what we got from this sale and, if I mention only the New Bank of Maribor where Apollo [[?]] in the tax oasis with misterbit.com [[?]] created an enormous profit of EUR 334 million and paid for it because it is in the tax haven, only 1% of the tax. If this customer were to be from Slovenia, he would have to pay 17% of the tax, which means that the bad bank would sell this claim in tax havens and instead of at least 17% of the tax sales, because they generate profits that they buy, we get only 1%. And this is a matter that will need to be addressed further, the next call of the National Assembly must establish an investigative commission that will deal with precisely this part of the bank hole, EUR 4.9 billion. Unfortunately, it will not only be €4.9 billion, as it has also been shown that NLB Inerfinanz has established its branches in Croatia, Bosnia, Serbia, Montenegro and remain in Croatia, where the Croatian government has already passed legislation to make all NLB Interfinanz loans without coverage, they are all cancelled because they did not have the consent of the Croatian National Bank to operate in Croatia. And this will increase the 4.9 billionth hole by an additional EUR 400 million. In this committee, I have succeeded in achieving that the Commission is also, and I think that this will actually be realized, to press charges for this new case of €400 million Interfinance, which we have not yet been able to deal with. As these cases are rolling, it is imperative to continue working, and above all to continue working. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] It must be clear to us that this is an organised principle, so to speak, of a mafia association, and unfortunately this principle of rapid indebtedness of the economy in relation to the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the establishment of a bad bank and the sale of bad claims in tax havens. Sorry, this is organised, I would say, exhaustion of Slovenia and therefore, of course, we have difficulties in ensuring decent wages, how to secure decent pensions. That's it. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u65	Dr. Ange Logar has the floor as a representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u66	Thank you. I have a few things to fix that colleague Weber mentioned. Therefore, it is not clear that the bank hole due to banking crime should be only EUR 200 million. Already today, more than 900 million euros have been claimed for damages. Over €900 million, but this is not all that happened in the banking system. Bank crime is very important, and I also do not agree with this statement made by colleague Weber in his report that crime in the Slovenian banking system is a serious problem, but it is not the reason for the banking crisis. There is a reason for the banking crisis, there is an important part of the reason for the banking crisis and, in a significant part, there is a reason for the mismanagement of business in this country and also a lack of confidence in politics because we have failed to sanction matters in time. I agree with my colleague Webro that the sale of bad claims, which is now going on, is an unprecedented scandal, so I also believe that the responsible policy that will have to exercise power in the coming term will have to be done to open these books, and if the SDS will be in power, I will be the first to ask for it to open up transparently all that is being done at the DUTB. In fact, today they are hiring people from KB-1909 in this group. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! Those who have done the million-dollar damage that we are dealing with in this report today are driving us to a bad bank and are advising or directing individual sectors. We've come into such perversions. And he also holds to what colleague Weber pointed out, the Interfinanz Zagreb case. The indictment has already been prepared and in addition to the report, I did not say in the introduction, we will also file a criminal complaint for the operation of Interfinanz Zagreb, where they operated without the permission of the regulator, which means that all the credit transactions that were concluded were in some way invalid and those who borrowed money from Interfinanz Zagreb do not have to repay the loan today. This was happening in our banks. This is also confirmed in this report today, and as I said earlier, I hope that there will be agreement on this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u67	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Bojan Krajnc and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will also support this report, I think that this investigative commission has done a very big job, has done a great job, and I doubt that now the authorities that will receive it will carry out as conscientious a task as this commission has done. Since, as has already been said by the President of the Commission, these hunters, or these same people, continue to rotate in all functions, those who have given these credits are now exploring or participating in research and so on. I have no good feeling that the work of this commission will be given to any real epilogue in the courts or that any of them will go to sit down unless the politics or composition of this Parliament fundamentally changes to the future and that the future government does not take this into its own hands differently from that of the government. When I listen to today's debates and views, I am also concerned that it is not the most powerful position party not to be involved in this work, led by the president of morality and ethics, that these policies have otherwise been put in place and what she has done at this time if she is not involved. And it was very flimsy or more than maintaining the status quo and more than standing by and watching calmly what was happening in the time of this government. I think that with this majority as it does, I could do much more in this mandate. It's not. Why? Whether he has too many members, Members in the rear, who have not been allowed to do so, or whether the information has been hidden from Members, that they do not know that they have come to Parliament as from the Moon. I think after four years, it could be different. I would also like to know why a member of this investigative commission who has gone into this has stepped out and is an unrelated Member now before the end of this term, whether this has anything to do with it. Also, some who like to use today's debate for their promotion, speak silently here today or have not spoken at all, are not in the coalition and are not dirty with these works. I've been in Parliament too long not to know what things are in the background and how they are going. I'd like to shed some light on a case. When customers came to the bank windows in 2007 and wanted to bind their money, workers or workers advised them to buy NLB bonds and convinced them to take credit for buying these bonds to make a yield of 6.25%, of which 1.25%, remained 5%, significantly higher than the bond interest. And then all of these bonds just disappear. There are over 6,000 of these savers in Slovenia. When these bonds were deleted, the Constitutional Court ordered the Government to resolve them within six months. At that time, the National Assembly accepted that it was better to erase this than to see the NLB go bankrupt. And nothing got out of it. But NLB didn't go bankrupt. And now they're suing, they had to raise money to sue the bank for these assets because they just disappeared and some people are paying for loans. I think the next government should take care of it, because the task is going to be a lot from the Franks and so on, and there's going to be a lot of money. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u69	The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc. Prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. If I make a little joke about it, I would say that this commission could also be called a commission to awaken repressed memories. Many of us remember the public parts of the hearings, I remember Mr Jančar the most, who has consistently responded that he does not remember and that I would not remember it, but many others besides him. Last but not least, this is a permissive forgetfulness, which is very selective, perhaps even true to someone, because none of us wants to remember unpleasant memories, and fortunately, there are documents that the Commission has collected and will send to the NPU and SDT, so I will support this decision. Also another one I'm going to return to a little later. In the context of the publication of this Communication, many have been the first to comment on how now, who is responsible, and certainly will be one of those at the end of today, which citizens and citizens will also be asking themselves. If you expect one person with a name, this one is responsible, of course you expect too much. All those who have been able to be investigated or even invited as witnesses in this investigation are responsible, and probably many others, given the limited amount of time and capacity of the personnel and others, are also responsible for the Commission, which, of course, will have to process the law enforcement and judicial authorities. My hope here is not as small as some of you colleagues. However, the positive changes in this area would, of course, be welcome and specialised in defining precisely who a member of a specialised court can be, of course, so that we would not be confronted with phenomena as described earlier by Comrade Logar, President of the Commission. By the way, I also thank you for leading this commission and for thanking me for not being able to come into a position where, of course, someone would investigate himself again, even if there was nothing criminally or indemnity responsible, but he did participate in, if I put it mildly, in a bad banking business, which is contrary to good practices, when these people should actually do something completely different than they did. However, I cannot, of course, in my debate over political responsibility, which is true to love, but at the time before the elections the very popular topic in the public works report was found three plus one government, I will say, three of the first of the governments of Janez Janša with this well-known credit balloon and, of course, what could have been done at that time was not done, but for such or other reasons in my opinion the Government, not alone, together with the regulator and of course the supervisors, who she appointed primarily to the state banks, then did more than it did, regardless of the fact that this government did not then, could, of course, have completed what it did not, but I am talking about the government of Borut Pahor, but it also missed the opportunity either with too little effective measures or with too late measures. As for the government of Alenka Bratušek, as far as I am concerned, there is still an unanswered question, perhaps a topic for a new investigative committee, from the conclusions on the establishment of an investigative commission on the level of recapitalisation and the magic cut here is AQR or the quality review of claims, we have not received an answer to this question and I hope that the authorities will either be the investigative commission or someone else who has found out what was going on with the review and evaluation of these AQRs. Last but not least, my ex-party. I'd say she did a lot of things that my colleague Verbič had already explained in her presentation of her position, but she was clearly late for adoption or she didn't even adopt many laws in this area, and the last of them is [[sign for the end of the debate]] the law on the determination, simplified, of the level of recapitalisation and of the judicial proceedings in this regard, so that much work remains to be done here for the future mandates of the National Assembly and the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u71	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, we're actually talking about the crime of the century today. Why? Five billion Euros of taxpayer money literally disappeared, or citizens had to pay for it. Because it's state banks. Instead of having some of these banks, the citizens had to recapitalise them, and all of them, today I have heard mainly from the Left side and some others who are trying to find some arguments with only some individuals by trying to achieve in their own way that state banks remain state-owned and that they are not sold, means that they allow the tax money to be financed by a deep state. It's the only message. Because, you know, I don't believe that this was happening and someone didn't know. Of course they knew. They knew those who had been put there by a deep country. And what else does this report reveal? It follows from this report that the deep state is consumed in all the seasons of our system and that until we do so in this area, this large pile of very important documents will remain just a bunch of documents and I will tell you why. See, for two years and 10 months, this commission, led by a colleague of Dr. Anže Logar, was used by other members to identify bad banking transactions on 550 pages. 550 pages of bad banking. 74 Witnesses have been questioned, 3,000 500 pages are a long report on the hearing. Now tell me what our law enforcement authorities have done so far. Nothing. Why? Because they're part of a deep country. That they are part of a deep state, it is already said that the District Court in Ljubljana has blocked the work of this commission. This commission had to literally “bubble” with them in order to obtain the documents necessary for their work. Why am I saying that the system is still in a deep country when we're talking about justice? Harry Furlan sits in the seat of the Special Prosecutor's Office. He's been sitting there for six years now, and he's sitting there again today. I'm sorry, but I don't believe that people like Harry Furlan, whatever they do, will take any steps forward. And then we wonder why you are currently accused of banking crime, I think two people, and in value, respected, 100,000 euros, while on the other hand we have a policy, someone who even says he will make sure that all those who do not think like him will fly from Ljubljana are called the dictator of politics, Mr Jankovic, who is guilty of 165 million euros in damage. Not only is he walking the streets, he even threatens citizens and citizens who had to pay for it. Yes, the deep state is being consumed both in politics and in the justice system. And if, in fact, the current authorities wanted to do anything to cut the wings of this deep state, of course, we would already have a special specialised prosecutor's office dealing with the highest form of banking crime and also economic crime. In this way, let me tell you that we need economic crime for the first reading of a year. It's a real state. Of course, I certainly welcome the work of this commission. They worked hard, but I'm sorry, we should do a lot of this for those in this country who are paid for it. This commission did their job. But we support these people. The Minister even in some way supported Mr Harij Furlan at the summit of the specialised State Prosecutor's Office. For the way of election is such that in fact someone else could not come to this place as he did. Also, Minister Klemenčič did not see to it that a specialised court is already in place. Already in the interim report, this commission has identified things that indicate that such a court would be urgently needed. And now individuals are looking for excuses in which mandate was an opportunity for some first loan and so on. We're funny. Look in here, 550 pages of bad banking. It's real. And where are these people? On our streets. They laugh in a mustache at those who today have 500 euros in pensions. In a mustache, they laugh at those who are on a minimum. And then, on the left hand side, we listen to how they didn't even want to participate in this committee, because it's irrelevant to them, and it's a political game. This is a political game, 5 billion euros is a political game? Of course, it is if you have to finance a deep country, which then makes sure that before the elections or to set up a party so that it can act on or use a single party to act as it pleases. But that's enough. Not on the shoulders of citizens and citizens and citizens. They're fools. And all those who today have any comment on this report and want to look for some individuals who are not at all an essential element of this report want only something to keep this deep state going. And this has also proved to be true in the field of health. It's exactly the same there. Look what they're doing. Today people are waiting in banks, respected, with basic credit, because they have to make a guarantee because they have to have contracts for an indefinite time, waiting two and three months to get a few thousand euros. This is what we do with citizens and citizens. And, of course, thank your colleague Dr. Ange Logar, thank you for the whole team. Above all, the call to citizens and citizens is to be overlooked. Today, this country is run by a deep country. And only voters and voters can change it so it won't happen again. However, a decision must be taken on 3 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Janez Janša. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u74	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Good bye to all of you from my side. See if we are wondering what today was the greatest value in Slovenia. Today, until the vote on this report, what was the highest privileged and valued value. The greatest and valued value in Slovenia to this day was that if I say domestically, you will borrow a million-dollar loan, which you will not return in any way or deliberately pay the performers. That's how you get tens and hundreds of millions, and you're not responsible for that. It was a valued value. That means you're, I'd say, in a public legal way a bank robber. It's a state-of-the-art bank robber. This has been a valued value to this day. I will, of course, support this final report on the investigation of bank irregularities, that today this valued Slovenian value will fall, but this has been valued for those who carried it out, these were responsible in banks that were so-called contractors of these tasks, of course contracting entities and consumers. Is it very clear and accurate who these people are, or has anyone to this day responded? Not one of these branches of banking irregularities has been responsible for one thing, not one thing, who today is advocating that NLB's biggest bank should not be sold? This is advocated by those who today are urging you to vote that they are now the saviors for the next term and for the next four years, they are defending it. However, if we look at the balance from 1991 to 31 December 2017, the NLB produced a minus, or the state budget invested in this bank 3 billion 130 million, and today you are advocating that NLB should not be sold and, at the same time, you are invoking voters for one month to support you in the elections. I don't know what kind of mathematics you're using, and you're defending this kind of work, incomprehensiblely, I'm very hopeful that Slovenian citizens will understand that, 3 billion 130 million has invested the state budget in the NLB, and you're defending not to sell it, I mean it's, I'd say, incredible. Of course, I strongly, strongly hope that this final report will be adopted today and that this privileged and valued value will fall and that the law enforcement authorities will interfere with this bank-banking web, but this bank-banking spider was not fragile, it was very strong, it even connected the judiciary into this web, which is why no epilogue has been found to date since the entire judiciary was involved in this spider. I do not judge individuals and in this way, I do not judge every individual in the judicial branch, but those who run it are involved and are here and are supporting these privileges that have been appreciated to this day, this privilege will fall today by voting and those who therefore respond will sail out of this average, where the data is hidden, left and right, and, of course, through foreign companies will buy the Slovenian state property that has been transferred to a bad bank. This is all the Slovenian money that is now coming from foreign countries back to Slovenia, this is our money, this is the money of every taxpayer, every pensioner, every worker on the minimum wage, our common money. I want law enforcement to interfere with this bank robbery to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Janez Janša and the mags. Matthew Tonin. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office, Your Honourable Fellow Members. I would, of course, like to take the lead in my debate against pre-election rhetoric and at the same time do not want to combine my thoughts, short thoughts with privatisation or the privatisation of our largest bank. In the beginning, of course, I should like to say and commend the Commission, which has done this great, extremely great and quality work, especially to its President, to my colleague Logar, who was first among the same, and I am sure that he has invested a great deal of his work, effort, knowledge, and perhaps more. If this is my humble apology, given that I was very skeptical at first, I must admit this about the dissipation or the summary of what this Logar Commission will bring upon conclusion. Comrade Logar, accept my sincere apology for my scepticism at the outset. You've done a lot of work. I believe that they will be grateful to you, that they will probably not build these monuments, to all of you and to all of you who participated in this committee, I am a little less, because the work of the Desus Group of Ambassadors was mainly done by colleague Mary, but still. I expect that, of course, logically, this report will be adopted and that this report will be an extremely good basis for law enforcement authorities or for all the institutions in this country that are called upon to make some final decisions. Above all, this seems essential to me that those who are obviously responsible for these non-businesses, including their actions, will not only bear objective and subjective responsibility, but will be removed from the management and management system, both financial and other state institutions forever. I've never been, I have to say this in the same breath, for cutting heads, so figuratively, and even less, of course, in the immediate sense of the word and the expression lustration is foreign to me. However, I think that there is a better term here than those for which it will be and it would be very unusual not to find here that people with names and surnames are responsible, such people will obviously be needed, as already said from the system of managing and managing both financial and other state institutions forever and forever. As it is said, I expect, not just myself, not just my Group of Members, the Desus Group or the whole party, people expect, people who have renounced themselves, people who have not been able to pay, that they would just want higher salaries, higher pensions, higher social transfers and anything else, people expect people who are responsible to actually get their salaries, this time of course in a negative sense. It is difficult to say anything new during this debate, I have not been in the hall all the time, but I have listened carefully to this debate. I expect, but not in the next 5, 10, I don't know how long a year it's going to be, and when objectively people will no longer be able to remember that the line is going to go under this 5 billionth issue and that we are building on healthy foundations what's left to go on. Thank you all very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Janša has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Matthew Tonin and Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, congratulations to Angie and all the members of the commission, including the experts for the thorough work done. To a large extent, instead of the police, the prosecution and the courts. It will be very interesting now to observe how, with the documentation collected and processed, these bodies, which have mostly slept or worked against, will now process these things. It is not up to this investigative commission to determine what Slovenia will be like in the future, depending on those who now have to do so in the role of rule of law or the rule of law, if you want, to lead to the end. But it is thanks to this commission that there will be no more excuses. After the adoption of today’s report, if the National Assembly accepts it, they are good, nothing will be the same as it was. At least not in Slovenian banks. I think that the thing has gone over all the edges and if there is anything, then I think we have done today or we will take a big step to prevent the Slovenian state banks from being rehabilitated for the third time in the life of this generation. Because we've done it twice. Of course, the story did not start in this century, or at a time since Slovenia was independent, it began when some banks were created, with the New Ljubljana Bank there in the 1960s. And to make things a little bit more understandable, some details. I was a member of the first government to be elected or named after the multiparty elections. That government got empty state banks, full of clues, where the money was poured just before those first elections, but also the machine that was like today, which should have investigated it, did nothing. Then I remember the following year, when he was the second finance minister, with Mr Kranjec, when he once suggested to the Government that, given that the government is the largest committee of the New Ljubljana Bank or then the Ljubljana Bank, the Finance Minister is the President of the Supervisory Council. And the government made this proposal. And then the Supervisory Board voted about it, and the Finance Minister got one vote, his vote, and everyone else voted, and I think for Mr Rigelnik. And those who emptied the banks then also “like” saved them with tax money. One man was not responsible for the first bank hole. Moreover, the people who caused it were put in charge of the rehabilitated banks, and this was, of course, the fastest way to the second bank hole. Of course, when it came to banks, for example, at the beginning of this century, it was considered that they were good, that they were saved, that old practices were no longer, that we were preparing to enter the European Union, that the new rules of the game would fix even those things that might be wrong, and that, in fact, everything in the banks was sacred. In 2004, when our Government swore, we received as Finance Minister a prominent, world-famous banker, Dr. Bajuk, who believed that in Slovenian banks the practice was about the same as in the West. It is said that the rules of corporate governance, the risk of people in banks being respected and so on are respected. And that's how the government treated them. The government has not made any human resources changes, and the people who were at the New Bank and the New Bank of Ljubljana have remained. Even if she wanted to, she did not have a two-thirds majority, because she was the majority owner, but not a two-thirds majority, there was a Belgian NCB in Nova Ljubljanska Bank. And only after, say, two years have slowly begun to leak information that things are not what they appear to be. And then two things happened. One was an attempt when the finance ministry discovered that Nova Ljubljanska Banka was misleading with some data to replace the administration. This proposal was put on the Supervisory Board - and the votes were no longer available. In order to replace Mr Kramar on the Supervisory Board, the members of the Supervisory Board who came there on the proposal of some coalition parties did not vote, nor did the representative of the Ministry of Finance vote, if she voted in her conscience, said she. And Mr. Kramar stayed to the end and then received a million more. And what is interesting, even in the light of previous discussions, was voted against by all the representatives of the NCBs, it is said that the Belgian bank, which had a third share in the New Ljubljana Bank and without which nothing could be done. This was worth the money that the representative of the Ministry of Finance voted against the decision of its own government and its own ministry and survived. But the greatest enigma was why the Belgian owners acted that way or the co-owners did and then it became clear a few months later when the head of KBC came to the Finance Minister. This was the time when the second phase of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank would have to take place. The discussion was about whether the Belgians would buy up to 51% of the remaining share, at least, showing this interest, and so on. Well, after this meeting, the finance minister came to me all horrified. I said, "What is it? Have they changed their minds?" He said, "No, they haven't changed their minds, but they say they've already paid for it." “How?” He said, "They claim that at the time when the government sold a third share of the New Ljubljana Bank, it was agreed that the Belgian bank would pay a little more than they showed calculations and that it would then receive a share of up to 51%, but not before the elections, because it was, as it were, against the public, but after the elections, when LDS would continue in the government, it would form the next government and it was a gentlemen's agreement." I have to say that I found my ears very hard to believe, but then at one of the next meetings, at some reception, the president of KBC told me the same thing and I heard it in my own ears. I said, of course, that this does not count, that the contract, where it says, how much they paid for a third share and this is it. But if they have anything else written, let them show it, and so on. He said very arrogantly that they had nothing written to believe the word that it was a gentleman's agreement and he said – be careful: “We will wait for the next government.” And they waited. Of course, then there was a financial crisis for them as well, and KBC was in the same trouble as Nova Ljubljanska Banka, because there were clearly the same practices. The beginning of 2008 was also a time when information was being received that Slovenian banks were not in the same good condition as it was shown, and on multiple questions to Banka Slovenije we always received the answer that the situation was great and that the data was extremely good. Well, this picture was also repeated in 2012 when sparrows were already sneezing that something could not be right in Slovenian banks. Of all the administrations we received data, including at public conferences, that the situation is good, solid, stable, enough reserves, enough money, little bad credit. At that time we had two conversations with the Governor of the Central Bank, Mr Kranjec and he argued, this is all in the records that there are some minor problems, but that the situation is great. This was at the beginning of 2012, after the crisis had already hit everyone well and it was clear to laymen that they were in Slovenian banks, especially in state banks, under carpets to buy bad claims that would never be recovered. But you can look at Banka Slovenije's website, official as well as informal messages from Banka Slovenije were that the situation is fine. Do you know where I officially found out the situation wasn't right? In Brussels. From the President of the European Commission, who said to me at a visit in the spring: “The Slovenian banking system is in front of bankruptcy, according to our data.” I called the governor on the same day, and I told him that he had now taken the devil's joke, and then about three weeks later we received that famous report from the Bank of Slovenia, where there was still a little confusion about the real situation, but there was an attached list of 16 conglomerates who were already in bankruptcy or who were known to be insolvent as the main holders of these bad loans. It wasn't just Bell. The bell was one of the 16ths. It was all from, I'll say, SDC to banal cases, like Semenarna Ljubljana with 50 million. How a seminary has to make such a hole is still not clear to me today. But now I hear that these are good footage at UKC Ljubljana. I'll say, you have to be able to make a 50 million-dollar hole with one small company. Really. And that's when this story began to unfold with a great deal of delay. With a lot of delay. In this same hall, we then passed a law on a bad bank. Those who boasted about the results today then gathered signatures for the referendum in order to reject this law. Same for the State Holding. Nevertheless, this was established. Now, in essence, both institutions have changed into a umbrella organisation to continue the same practice as the Slovenian banking system has already emptied twice. And nothing has changed in the banks themselves. Nothing's changed. Things are happening that can be embarrassing to all of us. I will read you one letter, which has been published for more than a year on the Val 202 website. It reads: “In the editorial board, we keep family documents, which in nine years have received a loan for the loss of employment and the sudden disability of one of the parents for a total of over 2,000 unpaid debts. The Bank, Nova Ljubljanska Banka then, despite the party's comments on the hardship contract, legally cancelled when they did not pay some consecutive unpaid meals, regardless of the fact that the debt of absolute amounts did not reach even 5% of the basic lease." Not even 5%. Their debt is now the property of the Swiss company and the enforcement of the apartment is already under way. It's the home of a five-member family with three malnourished children. And there are only 10,000 of these cases in this package. During the time of Mr Brodnjak and Mr Karpet as President of the Supervisory Board, the new Ljubljanska Banka approved this because the Supervisory Board approved it, said somewhere in the summer of 2016, in this mandate, a set of claims worth 100 million for 80% of the Swiss Fund's discounts. Now you'll understand what this is all about. It's about the loans you hire. Mostly housing loans, mortgage loans, which means that if you got a loan, you had to put an apartment or a house on the flag that you bought. Thus, these were not unsecured loans such as SCT from Semenarna Ljubljana. These are loans for a hundred percent or more insurance, and the Nova Ljubljanska banka of Mr Brodnjak and these supervisors you have now, it is not the fault of Janša's government, certainly not, has made a package for a hundred million, including leasing, I think 106 million and sold this to the Swiss accord with 80% discount, for 17 million. This fund now has a branch in Slovenia that brutally recovers, says, throws people out of their homes, even though they may owe only a few thousand euros. The media report this very shyly, very shyly. Televisions that can do great sages about if someone stumbles after 10,000 cruel fates because of the convenience of bankers, today, during a period of ten or twenty years ago, is not talked about. You don't talk. To the question of journalists, the bank even rejected the answer when it said it was business secrecy and then this Swiss fund published information on its website on how good business they had done. It doesn't just smell like corruption. This is, I'll say, systemic banking corruption, where someone or those who have made a difference will be 80 million, regardless of the fact that families with three, five unsustained children will be on the road. What does that tell us? This tells us that because of the fact that after the first bank hole and after that, I will say, more than the bad practice for which Slovenian taxpayers have been rehabilitating banks after independence, not even after this second bank hole that has been known since 2012, none of these key people have been, not only answered, in fact, all the key people are still bright and dressed in Slovenian state banks. All those whom Mr Logar had previously numbered were here and that second generation, which then came with Mr Brodnjak and some. If today is just the report of this commission, it will continue and in five years, people with a bank arrow will come back for your money because a new hole is coming. With this, I will say, this same administration of the New Ljubljana Bank, which here relentlessly throws ten thousand people on the road by its decision, is peacefully paying for the illegal judgment of the Croatian courts in contravention of the constitutional law, contrary to two international agreements. He's paying easy. And he's still there, nothing happens. We are proposing a solution to this situation. The opening of proceedings shall be rejected on the Constitutional Commission. These things are all connected. The biggest problem is that this common link leads to the wallet of all Slovenian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Matthew Tonin, get ready for Mr. Mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u80	Hello! The Commission of Inquiry has done an extraordinary job. In one place, there is evidence, evidence of double criteria, financial manipulation, and special people with special privileges. Evidence is collected of a handful of influential individuals who owe each of us 2,500 euros in debt. And the key question following the consideration of this report today is whether the justice deadline will reach the responsible one. If the time limit of justice is reached, then we will have some satisfaction that this country is still ours and that the culprits are also responsible for their mistakes and criminal acts. Otherwise, if nothing happens after this report, it is of course difficult to believe that anyone would trust the rule of law and the country alone. From here on, concrete actions are important what law enforcement authorities will do against those responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. In the past, close to the past, citizens have been paid 4 billion euros for New Ljubljana. That was the approximate amount of recapitalisation for the New Ljubljana Bank. Of course, this amount is unimaginable to many people. We could build a new city from that amount. A new town with a few ten thousand apartments. In addition, we paid only a few years ago to solve the so-called banking crisis of 5 billion. Here we were saving next to the New Ljubljana Bank at 4 billion, billion and a half, other banks, private banks, and it was actually five billion. This is about one state budget, maybe a little less than the state budget, which means, in other words, that if citizens and, if companies in Slovenia did not pay any tax for one year, then this amount could actually go to their advantage if they did not put this money into more, more or less state banks. Of course, such amounts are difficult to speak of and it is difficult to imagine what this really means for the development of the whole country, but certainly this amount has stopped the greater development of the Slovenian state and the greater well-being of citizens and citizens. So, of course, there are a lot of stories, a lot of examples, what happened to individual companies, what happened to individual cases, and how much does that total amount amount to for that country, where could Slovenia be if it didn't recapitalise the bank? Where citizens and citizens could be if they did not recapitalise these banks. It is simply a bottomless bag, and I do not expect, personally depending on the state of the spirit in the country, given the state of the general spirit and in particular the situation of those who decide, today and even in this Government, that if this direction continues, if the central left governments want anything to change, if anything does not happen here, if it does not happen here, if it does not occur here, that this practice will simply be interrupted, then nothing will change and a new account will come forward, which will be put forward in the direction of the stability of the financial system, that it is necessary to ensure the stability of the euro if you want to, the stability of the European system and so on and put forward a new account to the citizens and citizens. Only an extremely strong incision in the management of state property, in the operation of the entire state property, where I count all financial institutions, banks, insurance companies, where I consider certain infrastructure companies, DARS, railways, Luka Koper, where other state energy companies, of course, are considered, can be terminated, this cut can terminate visions that bring additional bank holes. Whether it is called privatisation, or whether it is called a different management, it certainly means that other people need to come to responsible places who will have knowledge and trust and who will, of course, also have the will and the power to change things. Otherwise, in this country, it is simply not possible to make changes, such changes, in order to easily operate on a healthy basis, in order to easily operate, in the SMC would say ethically and morally, this ethics should mean that accounts are issued to citizens and it is very easy to do business and it is very easy to do business, of course, when someone allows this to be done here, there is no investigation that justice does not work here, that it does not work here with such an intensity of justice, that it simply sets limits to set up some judicial practice of what can and what should not be done, simply in the field of health, in the field of if you want TES, energy and financial institutions allow it. For this reason, of course, for the future Government and for the future composition of the National Assembly, it is easy to ensure that people are capable of these cuts and that they will also be able to easily pass through everyone if you want warnings of such and other ones, including the threat that something will change. Look, one state budget, all taxes go to banks in 20 years. And it's fantastic for these institutions to live. You don't need any management here at all, you don't need any issues that are backed up by the OECD, management, in short, some professional matters. It is easy to do so if an account is simply presented to citizens and citizens, through that government and so on. In fact, there is a system in this country that makes this possible. This system is from the supervisor of the financial system, the Bank of Slovenia, then through the owner, then, of course, through all state institutions, state offices, institutes and so on. Over the control boards and management. In short, if we're going to stop this, then we're going to stop this practice. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and then we will invest money in people, in prosperity, for the well-being of people, for, some say, of course shorter waiting types, higher pensions for all that people will live better and easier, if the matter continues, then it will continue indefinitely. And that's gonna be bad, bad for people and bad for the country. That's why, of course. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the call is made that this report is an excellent basis for something to be changed. And of course it will change in a very short time, if we want it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I count it a special honor to be the last on this list of applicants and introductory. I simply agree with a number of debaters from the SDS Group, who touched the content of this so-called "content" in their debate. the banking parliamentary investigative commission, but not with a lot of people, because I get it and I think the public also got the feeling that we are here at this point in the National Assembly, especially at our own promotion in the pre-election period. So much for a start. I am also joining all those who, according to the content of the kind words, thank the investigative banking commission. I also thank my colleague, who was Vice-President of this parliamentary commission of inquiry, despite leaving me in my parliamentary group. To all the other members, I will finally mention a few more words to the President, which is why I am not mentioning him now. I would certainly like to point out in a special way, even though some of the experts in these committees have been truly grateful, because I believe that they have demonstrated and were on their shoulders, especially in this process. So that's a really special thank you. Now, as far as the president is concerned. So many beautiful words about good conduct, procedure and everything that's with it is hard to add anything by itself. However, I would like to say the following that the President of this Commission, Dr Anže Logar, with his approach and efficiency in the process of interrogating the invited persons, has somehow shown the right way which I believe that parliamentary investigative commissions should normally have what they should have, even if this is happening in the following mandates. What the President encouraged and then drew the members of the Commission is that these persons have demonstrated their expertise, competences and what is of concern not only to us, as Members, but also to the general Slovenian public, is the fact that these persons are literally limited in their ability and the question is whether they were also at the time of their most trusted functions. This my thinking is based mainly on so-called forgetfulness or not being aware of any key questions about things that have had any effect on taxpayers' accounts. In short, I personally assess the conduct of this parliamentary commission of inquiry that, in individual cases, it has been at the limit of admissibility, but very effective, so I am indeed personally thanking Dr. Anžet Logar, and I do not think that I will say too much if this is a so-called sample example of the so-called parliamentary commission of inquiry. So much for this part. Initially, shortly after my presentation of the SMC Group's position, you have somehow indicated that the Government has done almost nothing in any case, but at the same time these are staff appointments and Roshads. I can say that these eight points, which I presented in the position of the SMC Group, are undeniably true and are linked to material and procedural rules. You may know a little bit, but you may ask my fellow Members that when you mention specific names, Jazbec, and then I think there was another one, I can honestly say, also publicly, that from the very beginning, even within the parliamentary group, as far as I can see, I oppose and constantly object to these kinds of appointments, but I will not comment to you. See, the fact is that a politician or a member of a party may have an opinion, and the question is how far in this case is followed by those who decide. Once again, I am very clear that I strongly oppose such personnel matters, in particular as regards those persons who have been in the past in these decision-making functions of state-owned banks. So much for that. However, before I touch then, given the time available, I have to say only the following In such truly sensitive matters that go into billions, one really wonders where is that limit of political debate with inclusion, even in the debate itself, on the substance itself. [[…]] I point out once again the same thing that I have pointed out here, in this place and also on the parental boards several times. As a citizen, I have the opportunity to come to a bank that is still state-owned and to apply for a ten-billion-dollar loan without insurance - this is not a crime - as a loan seeker. But if it's okay with me, then it's another story. And on the approval side it is solely under the authority of the administration, whether or not it is delegated to hierarchical lower authorities. Therefore, it is indisputable, given the fact that it is being discussed in different ways, that there is an exclusive responsibility for the members of the boards. And now I'm going to go back to what we've been dealing with since the first day in this National Assembly with bad practice in banks. I'm very pleased, Commissioner, that you confirmed my thesis, which, three years ago, my colleagues looked at me slightly differently, so suspiciously. And I will repeat: the indisputable conclusion of your commission is, and also the debate that took place today, in the first place material, compensation, criminal, all that is possible, on the part of those persons who have been in these banks that have recapitalised, members of the administrations and the supervisory board. There's no dilemma here at all. It just proves that the thesis is correct. In second place is certainly Banka Slovenije, which during that period, I would say that not even 2004, but more than 2008-2013, did not exercise its powers simply, not to a sufficient extent. The question is whether she did anything for certain entities that were state-owned bank committees. There's no dilemma here. But I'm talking about the governor, I'm talking about the vice-governor, and there's also a question about what's going on with the other members of the Bank of Slovenia. I missed one key issue of responsibility today, and that's the auditors. Let it be internal, there have been a few words, but there are strictly so-called business auditors, and here I must, my fellow opposition, give you an indication from this place as much as is available to me, a few months ago, we had a proposal for amendments to the revision law on the basis of a request for a directive from the European Union. And on the parental committee, who suggested the postponement of this point? The representative of the New Slovenia Group and you have also strongly supported the SDS party and unfortunately also some of my colleagues. And why I myself have been a great advocate that this directive must be transposed into the Slovenian legal order, which is already late. It's my government's fault she didn't set this thing off in time. The fact is that the transposition of this Directive and the amendment of the Audit Law imposes greater responsibility and obligation on business auditors, because we know that business auditors have a major influence in the processes as well as in the decision-making of individual administrations and supervisory councils. The exclusive role, however, is, as we know, that business auditors give an opinion on the business outcome of the annual report, including the bank in this case. And when we now talk about how willing and obvious it is on the SMC that he is simply not willing and how, in any case, leaving the human resources issue is not ready to change, one of the key laws, at least for me, was urgently needed for this old practice to end. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Why am I referring to this case? For the auditor who issued the latest report for Probank, which was also misleading for politics, is today simply teaching and teaching new auditors [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate. The text is by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u86	Thank you, Chairman. So I believe, given what you have heard today, that you will support this report. However, I also believe that those of you who will be in the next term or who will be in this reference, not only in the National Assembly, but not only in the legislative branches of government, especially in the executive branch of power, will be able to carry out the spirit of this report and then also to implement the contents of this report. Remember, in the coalition agreement 2014-2018, the coalition stated that it would restore confidence in the banking system and that it would consistently ensure the prosecution of banking crime. Today we discussed this subject for three hours, and there was not a single representative of the Government in this room in three hours. Sorry, that tells me something. In fact, the report, which selects or collects all of the sides of Slovenian banking in the two largest state banks and speaks of political responsibility, does not deserve the presence of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Excuse me, this is a mirror for me. It's the importance of pursuing banking crime in this mandate. During the work of the commission of inquiry, I have actually found out whether or not we have a law of silence in the banking system and in the context of politics and banking. Look, specifically, the Stoice case. There's a clear political responsibility here. Someone broke through the Slovenian banking system and forced the bankers to give credit. But if you ask these bankers today, they'll claim to you that they've made up their minds and that they're responsible. In short, they are willing to take responsibility on their shoulders in order not to tell them who was actually bending their hands. But if you read forensics, it's electronic messages within the banking system, what we've been doing, and you'll see what kind of policy pressures have been. Among other things, so much so that some mayor came to lunch where the board members sat and told them that you had this for me in two days. And when they told him that this case was illegal he said, yeah, I'm not gonna sit down because of that, you guys make this happen. That kind of thing and these bankers today, you know why they say it's their fault? Because they're among those who can't imagine sitting down because they know if I'm gonna be quiet, if I take our responsibility, it's obvious that nothing will happen to me because there's no one else here. But if at a time when they're aware of it and when they realize it's gonna happen to them, then they're gonna start talking. You'll see, when the first banking category actually feels the water running down his throat, look, and then they'll talk. And this situation needs to be brought about and this situation will not happen in a way that no one from the government will be able to come to the debate in the National Assembly, because it is a clear sign that they do not yet have to be afraid. As soon as there is a clear political sign that this pressure is being exerted, those responsible will be aware of it, and it will be for me, if it goes for me, I will also tell you what is true. And they'll remember very quickly, even if it's been eight years. I mentioned a product earlier, not a proper bridging loan, where someone with 800 euros received a million Euros of credit. I have typed these amounts into that form of calculation of the loan you have at the New Ljubljana Bank and would get it all together, I think, 4 000 Euros of credit according to this data, not a million 600. In the end, we paid the taxpayers. Interestingly, all of these transactions were carried out through only one branch, only one branch in the city which currently has a mayor who is a candidate for Prime Minister of the Government. And all the credit transactions that were approved in this way were signed by two members of the board. Unbelievable. Then the authorities prosecute that unit leader from that town, from Kamnik, if I'm more precise, they don't condemn it legally, but Mr. is silent. The gentleman does not say that each individual credit proposal brought on TR3, waited to receive two signatures, always the same two signatures, and only then carried out the matter with conduct likely not to be paid. Shut up, even though he's convicted, and he's probably going to be convicted by law. Shut up. Why? It's probably worth more than that. It probably pays more to stay four years, and after four years, the matter will be no problem. But you know, someone else is responsible for their signature. And if I follow what my colleague Verbic has said, the Supremes are responsible, they are also signed. So far, we may have thought they weren't signed, but they're signed. Be sure. We've even found a case where someone intervened, so outside the bank's decision-making bodies, intervened for someone in the bank to get a third loan and that's why they got the commission. Can you imagine what's going on in the Slovenian banking system? This business, for example, has created a huge hole over 20 million euros. And we paid the taxpayers again. Now you decide whether the policy will put this necessary pressure into effect so that some will be called upon to be responsible to condemn those who are guilty or will not. To a large extent, this depends on political responsibility. The best example is how important the integrity of judges is in essence, i.e. those who will eventually decide on the actual cases of responsibility of the administrations, as well as of the supervisory councils and so on, is the Balkan warrior. Look, while this case was being handled by Judge Gorazd Fabjančič, remember that he did not decide, he preferred to exclude burdensome evidence. We also have a number of cases in politicians that exclude burdensome evidence outside of court practice. But when a trial gets a judge with integrity and a spine, it's a fair decision. So if there is burdensome evidence, take them into account in the burden of proof and determine responsibility. Now, I hope from today's meeting that the vast majority of Members will confirm this report, not least as I said at the meeting of the commission of inquiry, has been confirmed without a vote against and if the National Assembly can in some way confirm this unity, it will show that it cares that the prosecution of banking crime begins, even though in the end the next government will in fact impose very great responsibility. In fact, in one of the conclusions, we also foresee the establishment of a special court for the prosecution of banking crime, but this time in a slightly different way, by reference to a certain Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by giving this opportunity to all the proponents that this regulation allows, including the State Council, to political and parliamentary groups, and so on, with one simple reason, there will be no excuse to wait again for the legislative initiative of the Government to prepare such a legal opportunity if, in the next term, the Government obviously does not want to do so, that a parliamentary group or anyone else will be able to immediately, the State Council proposes the establishment of such a court and the next call of the National Assembly will essentially lead this, leading the decision of this investigative commission. To conclude, I would really like to thank all the members of the commission of inquiry, especially those who were present, because there was more than one. Regardless of what the views were, I think that, even if we have ever had, we have been able to reconcile on opposite shores, and we have all somehow understood the good intentions of the various views that we have brought to this investigative committee, that is not the work of one man, that is the work of six people, and that is the enormous work of the professional colleagues who helped the investigative commission, both the internal professional colleagues, colleagues of Vrišer and Zdenka Bešter, as well as the external colleagues who, with their knowledge, experience and non-working work, have contributed to the creation of this report. I hope that the result will not be that those who have been outside employees will now not get a job anywhere, but on the contrary that they will fight for their work, although as I know that one of them has already applied to the DUTB, but not even get an answer, but see, this is just a matter of the DUTB policy, because it rents personnel from KB-1909. I say, however, that in this mandate, with as much support as possible from the reports of the commissions of inquiry as they can, as the constitutional proposal would like to give meaning to them, we will allow these bodies, which will exert pressure in those areas that do not move as they deserve or as they could or as taxpayers, to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u87	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired and no one has expressed interest in discussing documents in closed work, I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss them? No, thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate and I note that the National Assembly took note of the final report of the Commission of Inquiry to identify abuses in the Slovenian banking system and to identify the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone. The assembly will take a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry and on the proposal for a decision and on the amendment of Dr Anjet Logar to the proposal for a decision today, within 30 minutes of the end of the first item of the agenda. I hereby interrupt the 1st item of the agenda and for 30 minutes also 62nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to meet the Mandate- voluntary Commission for the preparation of the 2nd item of the agenda. I am informing the members of the Committee on Elections that the meeting of the Commission will begin in 10 minutes in the Grand Chamber of Tomšič. We will continue the meeting at 3:40 p.m. [[The meeting was suspended at 15.10.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u88	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the 62nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: item 2 and then item 1 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Are we passing through? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's gone. We are moving on to a follow-up to the 2nd item on the agenda, namely the Mandate-Electorial Affairs and the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the confirmation of a Member's mandate. Because it's mag. Mr Dejan Balažič, State Election Commission, forwarded a decision to the Assembly on the termination of the parliamentary term of office today. The decision of the State Election Commission was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body which informed the Assembly in writing. You received the report and it was published on the e-club. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u89	Thank you very much, President. I just want to welcome our new colleague Diane. We've got a few more working days ahead of us. We still have full powers to establish a new National Assembly, and I expect and know that our new Deputy Member Dejan will be responsible and actively involved in the entire legislative part of the National Assembly until the end. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u90	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u91	of this term of office. [[…]] At the same time, I thank my colleagues and colleagues, of course, for the votes they gave to confirm his mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-26-SDZ7-Izredna-62.ana.u92	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. On the basis of Article 7 of the Law on Members, Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we vote on the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the delegation of the mandate to Dejan Balažić, born 23. 9. 1980, resident of Jamova cesta 36, Ljubljana.« There are 59 Members and Members in attendance, 58 in favour, and no one was against it. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite Ambassador Dejan Balažič to join us and take his seat. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Final Report of the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the identification of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia. First, we turn to the decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are set out in the final report on pages 291 to 394 and on the continuation of the essential findings of the supplementary final report, which are set out on pages 65 to 639. Before we go to the decision that you do not provide information from the final report, either the first or the second non-public version or the additional final report, if possible. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 57 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to the proposal for a decision. We decide on Dr. Anget Logar's amendment to the motion for a decision. We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present, 61 votes in favour and no one opposed. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present, 59 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I also conclude the first item of the agenda and the 62nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
