ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 60th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Susana Lepi Šimenko, Iva Dimic, Nada Brinovšek, Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 17:00 on, Ljudmila Novak, Jasna Murgel from 11 a.m. to 14 p.m., Vojka Šergan, Urška Ban, Vlasta Počak, Anita Koleša, Vinko Gorenak, Matej Tonin, Bojan Podkrajek, Miha Kordišek until 13 p.m., Francček, Matej Tašner Vatovec, Daniel Krivec, László Göncz until 12 noon, Benedict Kopmayer until 12 noon, Igor Zorčič until 14 p.m, Ivan Škodnik and Matjaž Hanžek. I say hello to everyone who's here! Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. When Borut Pahor signed an accession to the arbitration agreement in Stockholm on 4 November 2009, with unknowable ease and scale, the fate of our southern border came into the hands of others, without even checking the basis on which it would be assessed. This is also, on the other hand, a breakdown of foreign policy and also of Minister Erjavac. Another voter fraud took place in a referendum campaign, then the government published a newspaper in which, both on land and at sea, it plotted where the Slovenian state border would take place. In view of the fact that the result or decision of the arbitral tribunal almost none of this has been fulfilled, there is, in fact, no reason for us to accept anything. I would suggest, however, because soon a decade from this signature will be to print that referendum government newspaper, so that you can check what was predicted and promised and what we actually got by the arbitral tribunal's decision. It should also be noted that many of the lands on the north side of Kolpa, Čabranka, can also be Sotle, even in Mura, are part of those that were never Croatia, because of the lack of order, because it was not previously verified on which basis we will be assessed and what we have of them, now that the new arbitral decision simply belongs to Croatia, are part of Croatian territory. You can check that out and take a look. Since obviously persons involved in arbitration are not capable of self-evaluation, responsibility should also be required of these politicians. The next step, which took place, was later to waive all reservations about Croatia's accession to the European Union. From this we have not solved anything, not the borders, nor the problems that are related to the share balance of the former Yugoslavia, not the share balance of Croatia itself, all these problems are being drawn. And it must be found that all the bad things remained on the Slovenian side. Also, this tris of laws that we have on the table today is part of the continuation of this story when unilaterally trying to regulate some of the things that are the result of a misjudgment of the arbitral tribunal. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we predict that I will not repeat this, Mr President, in all these points, obstruction, at today's first point, this is the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the establishment of their areas, at point 2, in the consideration and vote on the proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the proclamation of the Environmental Protection Zone and the Epicontinental Zone of the Republic of Slovenia, and we will also not participate in the debate and vote on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Conservation of Nature. Thank you very much. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for a law amending the law establishing municipalities and determining their areas in accordance with the procedure in question. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration mag. Xenia Clampfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u3	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! The proposal for a law amending the Law establishing municipalities and setting up their territories means the harmonisation of the Law establishing municipalities and the establishment of their areas by the judgment of the arbitral tribunal and the second paragraph of Article 139 of the Constitution, which provides that the areas of the municipalities are established by settlements. In Article 2 of the Act, the text “Buzini”, “Mlini”, “Škodelin” and “Skrille” are deleted in point 104. These are hamlets and not settlements which have been added to the law as an exception due to the definition of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in the Piran municipality. The villages of Bužini, Mlini, Škodelin and Shkril under the law lie in the area of the settlement of Secovlje. Bužini, Škodelin, Škrile, according to the arbitral ruling, belong under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia, while the Mlini continue to be an integral part of the settlement of Secovlje. Although the settlement areas are established by the municipality in accordance with the Law on the Determining of Areas and on the Designation and Labelling of Settlements, Streets and Buildings, they are registered in the Register of Spatial Units. The proposal for a law does not regulate the State border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, but rather removes the situation when these parcels were listed in the Law establishing the Communities and establishing their areas. The new law will thus determine the territory of the municipality of Piran in the area of settlements as derived from the official records of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law lays down a period of three months within which the Municipality of Piran must bring the provisions of the general acts into line with the provisions of this Act. Accordingly, we propose that the National Assembly should support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u4	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u5	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 66th emergency meeting. 4. 2018 as a parent labour body has considered the proposal for a law amending the Law establishing the Communities and establishing their areas submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal for the treatment and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at its 117th regular session. 1. 2018 decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. No amendments were tabled in the course of business. The representative of the proposer, the Minister of Public Administration, provided an additional explanation for the proposal of the law itself. He explained that the Government had proposed a bill to comply with the arbitral tribunal’s ruling. The villages of Bužini, Mlini, Škodelin and Shkryle lie in the area of the settlement of Secovlje. Bužini, Škodelin and Škrile fall under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the arbitration ruling, and Mlini remain an integral part of the settlement of Secovlje. The draft law does not govern the state border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. The law will thus determine the territory of the Piran Municipality as derived from the official records of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law provides for a period of three months within which the Municipality of Piran must comply with its general acts. In its presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that they had only a comment on the final provision, namely that the applicant should verify the appropriateness of the application after the normal 15-day deadline for enforcement in relation to the remaining two proposals of the law, which are simultaneously in the legislative procedure and which, like this proposal of the law, relate to the arbitration agreement and provide for the entry into force the following day after publication. In the debate, members of the coalition and the opposition drew attention to concerns about the envisaged deadline for entry into force. The Minister explained that in the current Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas for the villages of Bužini, Škodelin and Skrile, it is stipulated that the provisions of the law for these areas shall apply until the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia is established. He stressed that Slovenia had not already exercised its jurisdiction in these settlements. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. As no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home labour body. The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law amending the Law establishing the Communities and determining their areas be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u6	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, in the National Assembly, we will consider as many as three proposals for laws which affect the content of the judgment of the Court of Arbitration, presented on 29 June 2017, a judgment setting a limit between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. For several reasons, it speaks against their adoption, as we know that unilateral implementation of the commitments is not possible. This would mean exactly the opposite of the familiar river, we do not want to give ours, but the current ruling set, otherwise on the way out, says somehow: “My lady.” This does not, of course, apply only to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a broader context. We may wonder how many similar laws there are today at the table of the Croatian Parliament, and will ever be dealt with by the content to which the arbitral decision relates. In Nova Slovenija we wonder why Slovenia is rushing again. While it is true that the provisions of the Law establishing the municipalities and establishing their areas for the villages of Bužini, Škodelin, Škrile are only applicable until the border between Croatia and Slovenia is established. These settlements now fall under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia, but attention is drawn to the fact that the adoption of an arbitral ruling does not in itself constitute a change of jurisdiction and therefore its enforcement is necessary. This is possible only with the adoption of laws, ours and Croatians. Therefore, today's unilateral adoption of the law for our country is unacceptable. The judgment is equally binding on both countries, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. All these facts have been identified since the adoption of the Law on the Regulation of Certain Matters for the Final Judgement of the Arbitration Court on the basis of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia last November. The law merely provided a framework for those who will remain in territory that is no longer Slovenian to retain all their rights if they want to, so that the consequences of arbitration in everyday life will be felt as little as possible. There have been no new facts on the ground since then. Croatia insists on its position and does not make completely any commitments under the arbitration decision. Ladies and gentlemen, on 2 April 2013, I congratulated Croatia, Croatia, as the new member of the European Union, and expressed my expectation that Slovenia will receive a new European neighbour with Croatia's entry into the EU. Here I add only that I appreciate and I am sure that we are so confident in New Slovenia that the European Union will stand or fall under the rule of law. As long as this is the case, in New Slovenia we cannot support the proposed amendment to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the Designation of Their Areas. But we're not going to argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u8	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone! In order to comply with the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, the Government has already adopted three draft laws at the end of last year: the amendment of the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the establishment of their areas, the amendment of the Law on the Conservation of Nature and the Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Law on the Proclamation of the Environmental Zone and the Epicontinental Zone of the Republic of Slovenia. Those amendments to the laws or so-called trio of arbitration laws could not be dealt with earlier, since it was only at the last regular March meeting that it adopted the Law on NGOs, which in the preceding provisions also intervened in the provisions of the current Law on Nature Conservation. The National Assembly cannot begin its consideration of the law on the basis of Article 117 if several proposals are made for laws governing the same social relationship. The proposed laws aim to harmonise the area with the judgment of the Court of Arbitration in The Hague concerning the border between Slovenia and Croatia, by which the judgment of the Court of Arbitration is applied. This ruling on the border between Slovenia and Croatia has created a new legal situation, which must be taken into account and implemented in the legal order of Slovenia. This will enable the Republic of Slovenia to confirm the last measures necessary at legal level for the implementation of the arbitration ruling. The Act establishing municipalities and determining their areas lays down the areas of Slovenian municipalities, their names and their seats and the number of members of municipal councils. In the process of the adoption of the law in October 1994, four villages were added with an amendment to the municipality of Piran: Bužini, Mlini, Škodelin and Shkryla to define an area belonging to the jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia. Consequently, it was added that the provisions relating to the areas of Bužini, Škodelin and Škrila do not apply until the definition between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. The border between the countries has been established in the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal and the proposal for a law amending the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas proposes the deletion of the words “Buzini”, “Mlini”, “Škodelin” and “Škrile” and thus the designation of the territory of the Piran Municipality in the areas of the settlements of Dragonja, Lucija, Nova Vas nad Dragonjo, Padna, Parecag, Piran, Portorož, Sečovlje, Strunjan and Sv. Peter. In the discussion at the home work body, some members expressed concerns about the envisaged deadline for enforcement, as the Republic of Croatia did not comply with the arbitration agreement and suggested that the proposal for a law should be enforced once the arbitration was fully in place. In this regard, we would like to point out that the latter arguments are not justified, since Slovenia cannot exercise jurisdiction separately, especially for the maritime border and especially for the land border, but only in the Piran Municipality area. Slovenia must start exercising its jurisdiction at the entire border, as is the case with the arbitration judgment. In addition, it has not already exercised jurisdiction in the hamster area, which, following an arbitral ruling, belongs to the Republic of Croatia, which is also governed by the applicable law. Otherwise, the Government has already adopted a decision to register the state border with the Republic of Croatia, thus recording the state border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia in the state border register. This will be the basis for the entry and regulation of land into the cadaster and the land book. This will also actually activate the provisions of arbitration laws. The Government confirmed the mapping of the state border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. On the basis of the above arguments, we will support the proposal for legislation in the parliamentary group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u10	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u11	Dear President, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! Today we are adopting one of the laws whose content is related to the arbitral tribunal's ruling on the border between Slovenia and Croatia. Due to the need to comply with that judgment, the proposed law regulates the areas on the river Dragonja in the Municipality of Piran, for which it has been stipulated that the provisions relating to the area of Bužini, Škodelin and Škrile do not apply until the border is established between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. On 29 June 2017, the Court of Arbitration in The Hague declared the final judgment on arbitration between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia concerning the establishment of a maritime and land border between the countries. The border was thus established, namely for these hamlets it is stipulated that they belong to the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia, while Mlini is still an integral part of the settlement of Secovlje or Piran Municipality. We all know that the Arbitration Agreement also provides for, inter alia, that, within six months of the adoption of the judgment, Slovenia and Croatia must do everything in their power to implement it, i.e. to amend national legislation. The proposal that we are currently considering is part of these changes and, of course, we support it in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u12	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u13	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, nice to meet you. The Act amending the Law establishing the Communities and determining their areas is part of the so-called arbitration package and governs the territory of the Piran Municipality. The villages of Bužini, Mlini, Škodelin and Shkrile lie in the area of the settlement of Secovlje, but, in accordance with the arbitration ruling, all these hamlets, except Mlini, are transferred under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia. The village of Mlini remains an integral part of the settlement of Secovlje. On the basis of the law under consideration, which will be supported by the Social Democrats, the region of Piran Municipality will cover the following new settlements: Dragonja, Lucija, Nova Vas nad Dragonjo, Padna, Parecag, Piran, Portorož, Seča, Sečovlje, Strunjan and Sv. Peter, as well as the official records of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. The municipality of Piran will have to coordinate properly within three months of the implementation of the municipal general act. However, since the Government has already informed the Municipality of Piran concerning both the Arbitration Agreement and the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, we believe that the municipal documents have already been prepared and are awaiting our decision in the National Assembly. On the Committee itself, a number of concerns were expressed regarding the envisaged deadline for the implementation of this Act, in particular in view of the non-compliance with the Arbitration Agreement and the disregard of the judgment of the arbitral tribunal by the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, I sincerely hope and wish that the Slovenian state has a well-prepared and well-founded defence before the Brussels oral hearing between Slovenia and Croatia on arbitration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u14	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, 19. 4. 2018, in the framework of the votes. This concludes the first item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law on the cessation of the validity of the environmental protection zone law and the epicontental dog of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and the premises of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u15	Thank you for your word. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In 2005, the Republic of Slovenia adopted and implemented the Act declaring the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia to act actively as a Adriatic State and to establish effective measures to preserve the overall marine ecosystem of the Adriatic Sea, Slovenian territorial waters and coastal areas. The judgment of the arbitral tribunal on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia has created a new legal situation, which must be taken into account and implemented in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, allowing the implementation of this judgment in a manner and within the time limits resulting from the judgment. The draft law therefore repeals the Act declaring the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 13(4) of the Code of the Sea. The protection zone does not comply with the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. However, the provision on the establishment of an external maritime border contained in the Maritime Code is irrelevant, as the state border at sea is now determined in coordination with an international act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u16	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u17	Dear President, distinguished representative of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 75th emergency meeting. 4. 2018 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the proclamation of the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the beginning, Daniel Krivec, the SDS Group, announced the obstruction of his parliamentary group in dealing with this item on the agenda or in the consideration of the draft law. On behalf of the proposer, Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, stressed that the Republic of Slovenia has adopted and implemented the Act on the proclamation of the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia in 2005 with the aim of acting actively as a Adriatic State and establishing effective measures to preserve the overall marine ecosystem of the Adriatic Sea, Slovenian territorial waters and coastal areas. It stressed that the new legal situation created by the judgment of the arbitral tribunal on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, which must be taken into account, requires the implementation of the relevant amendments to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, which will enable the implementation of this judgment in the manner and within the time limits set out therein. Ms Marolt stressed that the legislative and legal service had examined the proposal of the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and that the legislative and legal service had no comments on the proposal. In presenting their opinion, the President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Dušan Strnad, stressed that the Commission supports the draft law and has no comments on it. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space of the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the proclamation of the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u18	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The National Assembly has already examined and adopted laws relating to the implementation of the judgment of the arbitral tribunal under the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all related measures. The Law on the Registration of the State Border with the Republic of Croatia has been adopted today, and, of course, these new facts and circumstances need to be adapted to other laws in the Slovenian legal order. As a result, the law that we are considering today is being repealed. In 2005, the Republic of Slovenia adopted and implemented the Act declaring the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia to act actively as a Adriatic State and to establish effective measures to preserve the overall marine ecosystem of the Adriatic Sea, Slovenian territorial waters and coastal areas. Since this ecological protection zone is not in accordance with the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, it is repealed by this law. The arbitral tribunal has assessed the Slovenian requirement to establish an epicontinental band as inconsistent with the court’s decision on the maritime boundary. The judgment of the arbitral tribunal on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia has therefore created a new legal situation, which must be taken into account and implemented in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, allowing the implementation of this judgment in the manner and within the time limits set out therein. As a result of the new legal situation, the Act on the proclamation of the protection of the ecological zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia and also the provision of the fourth paragraph of Article 13 of the Maritime Code, which provides that the external boundary of the territorial sea is also the national border of the Republic of Slovenia. By adopting this Act, the Republic of Slovenia shall, as provided for, implement a judgment of the Court of Arbitration in The Hague concerning the border between Slovenia and Croatia, and thus act in accordance with the principles of international law. That is why we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u20	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u21	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! There is yet another law before us from the package of legislation that enforces the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. It is a law on the termination of the Act on the proclamation of the ecological protection zone and the epicontinental zone of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in 2005. With it we wanted to show that Slovenia is an active maritime country and that it is therefore establishing effective measures to preserve the marine ecosystem of the Adriatic Sea, Slovenian territorial waters and coastal areas. With the judgment of the arbitral tribunal, there has been a new legal situation, since the arbitral tribunal has established that Slovenia does not have maritime areas west of the border, as it has determined, in the Gulf of Piran, so it does not have an epicontinental band. The protection zone is therefore not in conformity with the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. At the same time, the Maritime Code deletes a provision stipulating that the external boundary of the territorial sea is also a national border. By an arbitral judgment, a certain national border partly determines the boundary of the territorial sea and in the Gulf of Piran. The national maritime border of Slovenia is therefore established by an international act, with coordinates, and therefore the provision on the external maritime border in the Maritime Code is irrelevant. The Desus Group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u22	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The decision of the arbitration court, which we Social Democrats were working for during the Borut Pahor government, is, of course, something that Slovenia must enforce with its full capacities, because it ensures long-term stability of relations with our southern neighbour, and accordingly we must take all necessary measures in the National Assembly to achieve this final implementation, Slovenia as a country. Part of this is the adoption of the law before us, so we will support it in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u24	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! If we leave aside today the fact that Slovenia received less from the arbitration ruling than we understood it had on 25 June 1991, and that it did not have direct contact with the open sea, we can find the following. The judgment shall be binding on the Republic of Slovenia in the same way as on the Republic of Croatia. Its comprehensive implementation, in accordance with an instructional deadline that has already expired and was a six-month instruction period, is possible only in the cooperation of both countries, as it is simply not possible to do so unilaterally. The Republic of Croatia remains firmly committed to the position that this judgment is not subject to respect and is not applicable to it. It is obvious, however, that the proceedings were compromised, although the arbitral tribunal here decided very clearly that the proceedings had been damaged, but not so much that they could not continue, and the court decided that the proceedings had continued, and on 29 June last year we received a final ruling from the arbitral tribunal on the border between Slovenia and Croatia. The Interstate Agreement with Croatia has not yet been concluded, without which Slovenia cannot proceed unilaterally with the procedures for the execution of the arbitration ruling. So what can Slovenia do at this point, which is firmly convinced that the arbitral tribunal's decision is final and must be respected? In New Slovenia, we are convinced that such laws as today's proposal cannot and must not be accepted, for us the adoption of this bill is without subject. As long as Croatia rejects the arbitral tribunal's decision and refuses to respect its decision and does not begin with the implementation of Article 7(3) of the Arbitration Agreement, any action by Slovenia regarding the implementation of the arbitral tribunal's judgment is unnecessary and may be detrimental to Slovenia. With such a step, we literally offer our area of the epicontinental belt to Croatia. In the light of the proposal in New Slovenia, we will not oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u26	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, 19. 4. 2018, in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the supplementation of the law on the protection of nature by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and the premises of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The final judgment of the arbitral tribunal pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia also has an effect on the rules governing the boundaries of specific protection areas, namely Natura 2000 and protected areas. In the Natura 2000 site determination process, the Government shall identify the areas according to the previous opinion of the local self-government communities and on the basis of the adoption of a plan identifying the consequences on social and economic conditions and establishing appropriate development measures. In the process of changing the border of the protected area, their founder shall inform the public of the proposed amendment to the Act establishing a smaller area of the wider protected area. The law provides that, in such a case, before the adoption of an insurance act, the public must be informed of the period of at least 30 days in the case of a restricted area and 60 days in the case of a wider protected area. In the latter case, the founder must also make a public presentation of the local communities providing for changes in the boundaries of the protected area. Since it is a matter of compliance with the judgment of the Court of Arbitration and the Law on the Registration of the Border with the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of all the procedures described for the modification of the Natura 2000 sites and protected areas is not materially necessary and is, on a procedural basis, too long to adapt to the new international facts. The proposed amendment will establish a legal basis for a simpler and shorter process of aligning the borders of these areas with the national border register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u28	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u29	Dear President, distinguished Mrs Lydia Stebernak, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 75th emergency meeting. 4. 2018 as a parent working body, considered the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act, EPA 2531 /7, a proposal submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Lidija Stebernak, first said that the judgment of the arbitral tribunal under the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia also had an impact on the rules governing the boundaries of the specific Natura 2000 security areas and protected areas. Ms Stebernak pointed out that in the event of an arbitral tribunal ruling, the implementation of all procedures for the modification of the Natura 2000 sites and protected areas was not materially necessary, and that it was too long for the national border to be established to change the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and its jurisdiction. The proposed addition to the law will thus allow for a simpler and shorter process of aligning the borders of these areas with the national border register. Ms Marolt, representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, said that their service had no comments on the proposal for a law. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Dusan Strnad, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. In addition, he added that, with the majority support of the proposal, the opinion was also expressed that the amendment of national law was irrelevant until the Republic of Croatia recognised the decision of the arbitral tribunal. Amendments within the emergency procedure were not proposed. There was no debate on the individual articles of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted three articles of the bill together. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space of the National Assembly proposes that the proposed Act on Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act be adopted in the text before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u30	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! In November 2017, we adopted the Law on the Registration of the State Border with the Republic of Croatia, which regulates the recording of the State border with that State in accordance with the final judgment of the arbitral tribunal under the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The judgment of the arbitral tribunal of 29 June 2017 also has consequences for rules setting the limits of specific protection and protection zones such as Natura 2000. The procedure for determining the specific protection area in Article 33 of the Law on Nature Conservation provides that the Government shall determine the areas, in the light of the previous opinion of the local self-government communities, and on the basis of the adoption of a plan to determine the consequences on social and economic conditions and to establish appropriate development measures. The procedure for amending the border of the protected area in Articles 57, 58 and 58a of the Nature Conservation Act provides that the founder, the Republic of Slovenia or the municipality shall be informed of the proposed amendment to the Act establishing the protected area, if the change relates to the boundaries of the protected area. Since the amendment or determination of the national border for the change in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and its jurisdiction is unnecessary, the implementation of the whole procedure with public awareness and public presentations in all municipalities affected by the changes makes it unnecessary, the proposal sets new legal bases for a simpler and shorter procedure for the issuance of sub-legislative rules and thus for the rapid alignment of the boundaries of specific special protection sites of environmental importance and protected areas with the register of the State border, as determined by the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u32	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Desus Group will unitedly support the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act. This is another addition to the applicable law resulting from the enforcement of the arbitral ruling. This novelty will allow for a much faster alignment of the boundaries of individual protection zones, i.e. Nature 2000, ecologically important areas and protected areas, with an arbitral judgment or with a state border record, rather than without a new provision. The harmonisation of the boundaries of specific protection areas will be regulated by supplementing the applicable law without the implementation of the procedure for obtaining a prior opinion from local communities and without public awareness of the proposed amendment to the Act establishing a narrower or wider protected area. Finally, let me reiterate that we will unanimously support the Act supplementing the Nature Conservation Act in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u34	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u35	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, Mrs Lydia Stebernak! In fact, the previous position could be repeated in this bill. Another law that, according to our assessment, is premature and its adoption at this point is irrelevant. The Government shall propose a simpler and shorter procedure to change the border of the special protection zone where necessary to comply with the national border register, since in such a case the special protection zone changes due to the changed legal fact. The previous opinion of local communities, as well as the drafting and adoption of the plan, will no longer be necessary, nor will there be public hearings and public presentations in all municipalities where the border is changing. A respected coalition, unfortunately de facto and de jure no longer exists, let us repeat. The judgment of the arbitral tribunal shall be equally binding on Slovenia and Croatia. Both countries must advocate consistent respect for international law and the law of the European Union when implementing it. Croatia's rejection of arguments and respect for international law is thus a prerequisite for the debate and adoption of the Law on Nature Conservation. As long as Croatia rejects the arbitral tribunal's decision and does not wish to respect the arbitral tribunal's decision or begins with the implementation of Article 7, paragraph 7, of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, any action by our country regarding the implementation of the judgment is unnecessary and possibly harmful to Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out here that we are actually facing a crisis in the identity of Slovenian foreign policy, which is reflected in the fact that Slovenia has lost quite a few of its traditional, if I may say so, allies in the last term. In New Slovenia, we ask whether those who believed us in 1991 or 1992 still believe and trust us today. The coalition agreement in this area, in the field of foreign policy, has promised much. “Key guidance”, says the coalition agreement, “external policy will restore credibility and strengthen the foreign political visibility of the country of Slovenia.” Now it's time to make an inventory. If our neighbor did as well a homework job as Slovenia wants to do, then in New Slovenia we would be happy to support the proposal of the law. In this case, it would be very useful to shorten and simplify all procedures for the change of Natura 2000 sites and protected areas. In view of this situation, we will not oppose the law in Novi Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u36	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, 19. 4. 2018, in the framework of the votes. This concludes the third item of the agenda. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on Personal Assistance after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u37	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, as many of you are in the hall! Allow me to brief you on the report of the working body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons on the Personal Assistance Act. At its 71st urgent meeting on 11th this month, our committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Assistance Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. It was a reduced procedure. Representatives of our Legal and Legislative Service, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia and a wide range of civil society organisations participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made comments in principle and concrete terms on some of the articles of the bill. The Committee was also presented with the position of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which, in one word, supports the proposal of the law. Initially, it was said that the purpose of the bill was to allow the timely start of the exercise of personal assistance, enabling disabled persons to live in a community and to decide their lives in the same way as others. The proposal will allow timely implementation of all necessary procedures for the exercise of the right to personal assistance, which shall be effective by 1 July 2018 at the latest when the regulations or acts are also in force under the Personal Assistance Act. With this date, users will be able to submit applications, expert committees established for this purpose will start to assess users, issue opinions on the number of hours of personal assistance and the content of personal assistance, and, most importantly, also begin to issue decisions. At the work of the home working body, interested public representatives expressed their views and expressed their views on the proposal for a law, explicitly highlighting support for solutions with the aim of bringing the law to life in practice, allowing persons with disabilities to live on an equal footing. In the debate that followed, the members and members of the committee warned that the amendments to the law should take care of all those in need of such services. The question was also raised as to whether there was a legal basis to ensure that the financing of personal assistance would not be discontinued by 1. 1. 2019. Representatives of the bill's proposer stressed that the providers of personal assistance are part of the interference of the labour law, so employees will not be reprimanded. Payment will take place after hours with the wolves. It was also pointed out that there was no fear of interruption in the financing of personal assistance, as no one, including the Minister, would and would not allow the financing of personal assistance to more than 500 beneficiaries or users. The main amendment to the amendment of the Law is the transfer of the assessment of users/beneficiaries to personal assistance to the Community of Centres for Social Work. Social work centres are responsible for the exercise of the right to personal assistance, and at this stage of the reorganisation resulting from the amendment of the Social Protection Act, they would not be able to carry out assessments and education in an optimum manner. Thus, it is an important aspect of the transfer of decision-making from the social work centre to the community, so that it will be able to prepare everything necessary to be with 1. 1. 2019 Decisions are in force and will be financed. The Committee further adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups as a result of comments by the Legal and Legislative Service and finally voted and adopted all the articles of the proposed law together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of our Rules of Procedure and is also included in the Committee's adoption of amendments. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report, which I have tried to present briefly to you. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u38	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u39	Thank you very much, President, again. Once again a nice greeting to your colleagues and colleagues who insist that you do not obstruct such an important point as the Personal Assistance Act, which brings real added value to the disabled, over 500 beneficiaries of the right resulting from the addition of the Personal Assistance Act! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on this law. Recognizing that in Slovenia it is necessary to assist independent people who need the help of others in their daily lives, systematically properly and specifically, without allowing such assistance only with experimental, say, pilot projects, has finally matured last February 17th, when Members and Members with more than a constitutional majority adopted a very long and difficult to expect law, Personal Assistance Act. A little later, we adopted a law that also brought about the difficult reorganisation of social work centres, which is the Social Protection Act. Both of these laws are closely linked, as they are now in the process of reorganising social centres, the latter have much to do with the establishment of a new system and other provisions resulting from the novel or amendment of the Social Protection Act. Back to your personal assistant. In the Desus Group, we will, of course, support a government proposal proposing a different temporary solution during the initial period of the regulation of personal assistance rights. Following a proposal from the Government, the Commissions, which will assess beneficiaries and draw up an opinion on the number of hours and content of personal assistance, will operate within the Community of Centres for Social Work of Slovenia and not at the centres for social work, as originally intended, by the end of 2019. In the Desus Group, we believe that this will really relieve the centres during this transitional phase of the reorganisation and that they will be able to focus on the reorganisation, activation and all other provisions arising from the PSC, while allowing a timely start to the implementation of the Personal Assistance Act. The proposal for an amendment in a different way, as originally proposed, also governs the financing of personal assistance providers. They will not be financed after twelve, as originally envisaged, but on the basis of monthly applications. In order to ensure a qualitative assessment of the needs for personal assistance, mandatory training of the members of the Commission and the so-called coordinators is also further defined. For the sake of economy, the Commission will carry out its work in the composition of two members, while retaining the possibility that one of these two members will be appointed as representatives of the users themselves. The proposal further amends the competence to decide on the rights to personal assistance, which, according to the actual place of residence of users, will bring them closer to the service or body where the rights will be regulated. Among other things, the proposal additionally, and in our view better, better, regulates the contract with the providers of assistance, the preparation of the implementation plan, the precise content of the agreement on the implementation of the services and the record of the personal assistants. To conclude slowly, it is essential that this novel will allow the timely implementation of personal assistance while ensuring the appropriate quality of implementation of assistance to users. As a result of this assessment and the fact that virtually all those to whom this law is intended, that is, all users, are pleased to note that this law is good, we do not see in our parliamentary group any reason for not giving full support to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u40	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u41	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! It will be difficult for me to say this position because there are only 11 Members in the Chamber with such an important marriage as personal assistants to the most vulnerable groups, such as the disabled. That's really not nice. Social Democrats will be supported by the proposal of the Personal Assistance Act, as it is an upgrade of the law that will facilitate the implementation of the legislation adopted. The timely start of the implementation of personal assistance is crucial if we are to ensure the achievement of the objectives and provide assistance to disabled users in the implementation of activities related to social inclusion. A proposal for a law will ensure the timely start of the exercise of personal assistance. This will ensure that procedures for the exercise of the right to personal assistance can be implemented by 1 July 2018 at the latest, and that by then, the regulations of the law are in force. With this cut date, that is 1. Seven. 2018, users will be able to submit applications and expert committees will assess users, issue opinions on the number of hours and content of personal assistance. Decisions will also be issued on this basis. According to the law, social work centres are the main providers of user evaluation activities, but in this critical initial period, the social work centres will be reorganised and they will be extremely burdensome, so in the coming period, from 1 July 2018 to 31 December 2019, the Community of Social Work Centres of Slovenia will appoint and organise expert commissions instead of social work centres. In this way, we will be able to ensure the timely implementation of procedures and the implementation of personal assistance for about 500 users. In addition to the proposed legislation, some minor substantive corrections are proposed, including a different way of regulating the financing of personal assistance providers to be financed after the actual hours realized and the Regulation will set a methodology for calculating the price of personal assistance services hours. The mandatory training of members of commissions and coordinators shall be redefined as it is only in this way that a professional and equivalent assessment of the needs for personal assistance, the number of hours of personal assistance to which an individual user is entitled, may be provided. The training programme will be prepared by the Ministry in close cooperation with the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia and the Community of Centres for Social Work of Slovenia. Two indents of personal assistance services relating to health services have also changed. The new definition of a service does not require specific skills of an assistant, but it is expected to perform all tasks for the user as it could if it were not hampered by disability. This is just a few additions to new solutions and corrections that will positively help users of personal assistance. In our parliamentary group, as I have already said, we will unanimously support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u42	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u43	Nicely greeted! Today we will vote on amendments to the law that has not yet been applied. I say fortunately, because without government corrections, the law could not be enforced at all. We will not oppose the new law in Levica, nor will we support it. We will abstain because the basic law does not guarantee people with disabilities the universal right to personal assistance. The law needlessly limits the number of beneficiaries to the most difficult disabled. The criteria for granting personal assistance are set so strictly that around 80% of current users do not meet them. All persons with disabilities are excluded after 65 years of age, although we know that life expectancy is increasing and that the risk of blindness or stroke is the highest in the elderly. It is also unacceptable that the rights to personal assistance will not be granted to persons with disabilities who need less than 30 hours of assistance per week according to the standards. There is no real reason for such non-life restrictions. The only reason is by saving, saving at the expense of the disabled. Last year, the Ministry of Labour for the co-financing of personal assistance earmarked only and only €3.6 million, in comparison, that is less than the cost of a single boxer-type armor that the Government intends to buy for commitments to NATO. One armoured boxer will charge EUR 4.5 million. If we multiply it by 130 shells, we'll come up with more than 600 million euros, which is, of course, only half of the 1.2 billion euros we're supposed to spend on two of Nat's middle group. Why am I explaining this? Because this comparison speaks eloquently of the fact that the Government, through the amendment of this law, could provide personal assistance to all the disabled who need it, of course if it were working for the welfare of the citizens, not according to the instructions of foreign power centres. I could list examples of this kind indefinitely, so let me just stick with one more. Last year, the Ministry of Labour provided the disability organisations with €3.6 million to hire 353 personal assistants. In the meantime, last year our citizens cost 4.6 million euros to spend spending 90 soldiers of the Slovenian Army in NATO's operation in Latvia. In short, it's money, it's money enough, but it's not used for the welfare of citizens and citizens, it's used for Nate's jobs and other pointless purchases. In doing so, the Commander of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Latvia has a good EUR 4 000 740 net salary, while subsidies for the employment of personal assistants are not even sufficient for the payment of the minimum wage. Disability organisations have to pay for this difference, and these are the priorities of the Slovenian political class, and ultimately the parties of the Social Democrats, led by both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. And they keep running out of money for the poor, and never for the thin. The position of workers exercising personal assistance is another reason why we will abstain. Last year, we proposed more guards to prevent the recruitment of personal assistants through espouses and to ensure equal pay for all personal assistants. The law does not create only two categories of disabled persons, but also two categories of personal assistants – the first-class ones to be paid from the budget and protected by the collective agreement, and the second-class, which will continue to depend on ad hoc programmes and financial capabilities of disabled organisations. As the government's novelty of this discrimination will not end, we will abstain from voting on this law in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u44	The text is by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Personal Assistance, which we proposed on the proposal of New Slovenia, was passed together last February, enables disabled people to live in a community and to make the same decisions about their lives as others. Colleagues and colleagues, at this point, allow me to reiterate my recognition and gratitude to the National Assembly, to understand the proposal of the opposition New Slovenia and to be able to provide exceptional support for the Personal Assistance Act. The Personal Assistance Act provides personal assistance at home, at work, in education and in social inclusion. People with disabilities are therefore supported in their integration into everyday life. The Ministry estimates that between 400 and 500 users should be eligible for personal assistance from 1 July to 31 December 2018, following an assessment to be made during the transitional period. In the New Slovenia Group, we support all efforts by the Government to fully implement the law in January next year, and therefore we support the proposed amendment. During the initial evaluation phase, the expert commissions are expected to appoint and organise their work by the Community of Centres for Social Work of Slovenia when the conditions are met, and these tasks will be taken over by social work centres. The proposal also lays down a new arrangement for the financing of personal assistance providers, i.e. in the light of the actual hours implemented instead of twelve. Personal assistance providers are expected to perform only those tasks which could be performed by the user himself if he is not hampered by disability. The proposal brings some other solutions that will allow for the smooth implementation of the law. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the amendment of the bill because we want the law to come to life on 1 January 2019 and, above all, to deliver concrete results. We will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u46	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u47	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Personal assistance shall be defined as assisting the user in those tasks and activities that the user cannot carry out on his own because of the type and degree of disability, but he needs them at home and outside the home every day. These persons are enabled by personal assistance to live independently and actively and are equally involved in society. In the past, personal assistants in Slovenia have been programmed and funded for many years, even though this area has not been regulated legally or systematically. The efforts of personal assistants to obtain a legal basis go back almost decades and we are pleased that we are in this reference to the National Assembly, this was last February, Members unanimously adopted by 70 votes in favour of the Personal Assistance Act. The adoption of the law constitutes the realization of the fundamental purpose of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, namely the exercise of the right to dignity, equal treatment, independent life and participation in society. The amendment of the Law on Personal Assistance, which we have today on the parliamentary benches, undoubtedly links the adoption last September of a new Law on Social Protection, which provides the legal basis for the reorganisation of social work centres. The application of the Personal Assistance Act shall commence on 1 January 2019 and the sub-legislative acts shall be adopted by 30 June 2018. As a result, social work centres shall initiate procedures to exercise the right to personal assistance. Social work centres, which are responsible for the exercise of the right to personal assistance, are thus extremely burdened by the amendment of the Social Protection Act in the reorganisation process. That is precisely the key reason for the changes to the current law. The amendments provide for the unloading of social work centres at the beginning of the implementation of the applicable law, allowing for the timely start of the implementation of personal assistance. For users themselves, of course, this is crucial. As SMC Members and Members are aware of the urgency of legislative changes, we have, of course, signed a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. That changes are urgent and are also welcomed by many stakeholders, the letters received by Members by the YHD, the Alliance and the Community organisations for training people with special needs in Slovenia also prove them. In doing so, I would also like to point out that in this mandate of the National Assembly, in addition to the Personal Assistance Act, we have already adopted several laws and amendments that have a significant impact on the situation of people with disabilities in society, thus proving that we do not care about the challenges and problems that people with disabilities face every day, as well as their loved ones. I am also pleased that at this extraordinary meeting we will also consider the law on the social inclusion of persons with disabilities, and I believe that we Members can take these decisive steps and that we will adopt amendments to the Law on Personal Assistance. We will, of course, support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u48	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 19 April 2018, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on scholarships after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and the same opportunities as the current business, Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u49	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! As a representative of the proposaler, I would like to point out in today's review of the amendments and the completion of the Act on the grant of scholarships in the introduction that the last of the legislative proposals relating to the automatic IT calculation, which was introduced by the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds for all rights from public funds, including the State grant, before you. Grants are intended to promote, educate and achieve higher educational levels of scholarships and scholarships. The country allocates the largest share of funding to the most needy and thus contributes to achieving equal opportunities for all for education. In order for automatic computerisation to be used in most cases also for state scholarships, the proposed law provides for solutions that eliminate important administrative obstacles and simplify the conditions and procedures for deciding on scholarships for both scholarships. Today's bill thus gives the legal basis that it is not necessarily necessary for the grantors to file an application every year and to propose evidence for the further receipt of the grant. State scholarships will only apply for the first school year or year of study, and the following years their scholarship ratio will be extended by official duty until the end of the education programme. The data to verify that the grantor fulfils the conditions for further receipt will be obtained from the official records. Following an official duty, an additional grant will also be decided, which is now granted at the request of the grantor. In 2017, almost 47,000 students and students received a state scholarship, most of which will be covered by an automatic IT calculation. Given that social work centres decide about 80,000 applications per year for state scholarships, the automation of the procedure burdens their work and, above all, for fellows, it is a faster decision on their rights, since all rights will be decided in October. This means that all scholarships will receive a state grant already in November, much earlier than before when applications were decided by December. The full automation of state scholarships is thus envisaged for the school year 2019/2020, while the substantive changes brought by the novels will be effective with the school year 2018/2019. The proposed law provides for several other amendments that have been prepared in the light of the simplification of the decision-making procedures on scholarships while at the same time acting for the benefit of the fellows, both in terms of the intended consequences and the burden of proposing different certificates. One such is the abolition of the current regime that a grantor has to obtain the grantor’s consent before the change in the educational programme, otherwise his scholarship is terminated. The aim of the state scholarship is to enable the education of students and students coming from socially weaker families, and the purpose of the Zois Scholarship is to encourage students and students to achieve outstanding achievements in various fields. In any event, however, the area of education does not affect the grant or the level of the grant. With about a thousand scholarships being replaced each year by an educational programme, this proposed law will make it easier for them to move between programmes, without fear of ending their scholarship relationship. The bill also introduces changes in the return of the grant when the grantor fails to complete the year or programme for which he has been awarded a scholarship. The key news is that the scholarshiper will no longer have to return the scholarship if he fails to complete the year or education programme successfully for health reasons, parenthood or social reasons, which the law currently in force does not allow. In this way, additional social pressures will be saved for fellow students who fail to complete the study for various reasons. I believe you'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u50	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u51	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor! At its 71st meeting this month, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Scholarships. It was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption by the Government following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia were present or actively participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Articles 7 and 25. The Committee received or took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which, of course, supports the amendment of the law. The introduction was presented, as already stated by the proposaler's representative, that one of the key objectives of the proposed amendment is to simplify the decision-making on scholarships and to make a more uniform and effective decision on this matter. In the debate that followed on the home work body, in fact, all the debaters supported the proposed amendment of the law and explicitly stressed that the decision on scholarships would be easier and more effective, thus burdening both grantors and investors on the one hand. The aim is also to mitigate the most stringent provisions of the current law, which have disproportionate consequences for scholarships with regard to the termination of the scholarship and the obligation to return the grant for the failed completion of the year. The Novela is for the benefit of students and students, and this must be said, on the basis of this agreement is also agreed by the Student Organisation. At the same time, the view was also expressed that we must create the conditions so that everyone who wants and wants to study can have this opportunity, and, also, essentially, after the study has been completed, they can get a job. The Committee then adopted the amendments to Articles 17, 24 and 25 and finally voted and also adopted all the articles together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes these amendments, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of our Rules of Procedure. I have presented this complementary proposal very briefly to you in this short report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u52	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u53	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, Members and others present! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on grant before us was prepared in the light of amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which were linked to the introduction of automated IT. The amendments mean, on the one hand, the removal of administrative barriers to scholarships and, on the other hand, the decommissioning of grantors, which is a social work centre and a public fund responsible for the implementation of the scholarship policy. The other types of changes brought by the proposed novels are substantive changes in favour of students and students. In practice, the implementation of the law has shown that certain provisions of the current law are too rigid and, in view of the consequences of the scholarship, disproportionate to the conditions and obligations that the grantor should fulfil. The first major improvement in the current regime is aimed at extending the right to grant and supplementation automatically and not on the basis of each application for extension of the scholarship ratio, of course if the grantor fulfils the conditions. State and Zois scholarships will not be awarded for a specific education programme, but for a level of education. As a result, the scholarshiper will not need the prior agreement of the grantor to change the educational programme and will receive the scholarship if he is successfully enrolled in the senior year next year, whether he is enrolled in the same or another educational programme. The success allowance will only be linked to the average rating and not more dependent on credit points. If the next school year or academic year is not enrolled in a senior year, his scholarship will automatically stand still, and after one year it will be checked to see if he has advanced to a senior year. If the student does not graduate or graduate within a period of time, he will return the scholarship only for the failed completion of the year, but it will not be necessary to return to those who for certain reasons failed to complete the year successfully. In the case of human resources scholarships, it will be possible to continue education from the first to the second Bologna level, and the period within which the employer of the student or student has a scholarship will be extended slightly. Our opinion on the downtrodden news in the field of scholarship is that these students and students are allowed a better social and social situation, while, as has been said many times, we are always in favour of solutions in the Desus Group that lead to the elimination of unnecessary bureaucratic and other restrictions that do not serve the basic purpose of a particular substance. We are committed to ensuring that legal solutions, when regulated by a specific situation, rights and the necessary procedures, both in terms of content and procedural aspects, seek as much as possible to be user-friendly and enforcer-of-law. Since, in our view, this principle is followed by the proposal for a new law on scholarship, we will unanimously support it in the Desus Group. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u54	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u55	Thank you very much, once again, for your word, Mr President. Hello, everyone! We have another government law ahead of us, which is mainly of a technical nature by its content. According to the proposaler, the aim of the proposed novel is to make the decision on scholarships easier and more effective so as to relieve both grantors and investors. The aim is also to mitigate the most rigorous provisions of the current law, which have disproportionate consequences for scholarships with regard to the termination of the scholarship and the obligation to return the grant for the failed completion of the year. The proposal thus redefines the basic provisions concerning the award of a scholarship and distinguishes between those scholarships allocated to the education programme and those allocated to the level of education. In each school year or school year, it will be checked whether the scholarshiper is enrolled in a higher programme year at a level higher than that already obtained and, if so, will be granted an automatic scholarship. Otherwise, the scholarship ratio will stand still. In scholarships where the educational programme is also important, it will be verified that the scholarshiper is enrolled in a higher year of the same education programme than in the previous school or study year. The note also amends the provisions on additives, where simplification is envisaged for the verification of the conditions of the residence allowance, which will be checked only at the first application and subject to a possible change in temporary residence. According to the proposal, the supplement for success is linked only to an average assessment. In the case of staff scholarships, a longer period is proposed for the employment of a scholarshiper after the completion of the education programme, as well as the possibility of continuing education from the first to the second Bologna level or from the secondary vocational to secondary technical education. The Novela also sets out more precisely the conditions for the continuation of the scholarship while modifying the educational programme and making it easier to decide on the peace of the scholarship relationship. From the point of view of the fellows, an important provision lays down in which cases the granter is obliged to return the grant. A definition is added that reimbursement is necessary only in the case of a failed year, and it is proposed that grants are not to be returned to scholarships which do not complete the year for justified reasons. We welcome the solutions proposed in our parliamentary group and will also support them unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u56	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u57	Good-bye! In Levica, we will support the proposed amendment of the Act on Scholarships, which simplifies the procedures for obtaining and maintaining the grant and removes some of the most rigorous and non-lifelike provisions that have been in force so far. In Levica, we particularly welcome the measures that are in favour of the most socially vulnerable students and students. If I stay at three On the basis of the law in force, it was in practice that students lost their scholarship or had to return this scholarship because of bureaucratic complications in changing the program, despite their progress in the senior year. [[…]] With the amendment to grant the scholarship for the level of education and not for the individual educational programme, this problem is addressed. Such a proposal removes a disproportionate grant return measure, which in practice meant that students who had not graduated within the deadline had to pay back the amount of the grant received for two years, which could have incurred more than EUR 4 000 500 in debt. In the case of the biggest debts, it is mainly for students from the most socially endangered families, who can only spend one day alone together with their families, plunge even deeper into the vicious circle of poverty. In addition, the non-life provision, which provided that the granter should return the grant even if the year did not end for excusable reasons. In such a case, it may now be entitled to write off the debt, which in practice caused major difficulties and in most cases did not result in write-offs. It is now finally stipulated that the debt does not arise in this case. However, I must respond critically to the content of the State Council's position in the part where it is proposed to introduce additional conditions to prevent brain drains from certain places and regions. In Levica, we are against any restriction or conditionalization of scholarships in a way that requires students to work in a specific place. Young people are not deciding to leave deprived areas because of the absence of coercion, but because of poor living conditions, especially low wages and high living costs. The scholarship policy must ensure that all have equal opportunities, the material conditions for them to be able to study are right. The grant function is in equal opportunities, not in adapting to the needs of the market or as a substitute for the absence of development policies at national or regional level. The escape of the brain, i.e. educated young people, from certain regions or from our country can only be stopped by successful social and economic policies at home, by housing policies that provide young people with affordable housing, decent salaries, quality, affordable public services. What we do in this country under the command of the ruling class is the opposite. Political will to limit market rents to other countries is not, wages exist at a level that does not allow decent living, while deregulation in the employment of foreigners encourages employment of foreign educated personnel in our country and stimulate social dumping. Moreover, we must not allow the role of social correction to be carried out by the student work, which has led many students to record significantly lower success, and there is also a higher rash among those who work more. In Levica, we advocate a reform of the student work in a way that eliminates its dumped nature; the intervention of the student work must be transferred from private agencies to a public institution, so that we can obtain 10 million euros per year, which are now in the pockets of private student services, but could be allocated for scholarships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u58	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we stress that caring for socially, culturally and materially disadvantaged children and talented youth activities are of particular social importance, so we welcome any proposal to simplify the field of youth scholarship. The measures concerning the termination of the scholarships and the obligation to pay back the scholarships for the failed completion of the year are also important in the light of the removal of administrative burdens. For the latter, the key prior written consents are both the grantor and the grantor, who will not have to file a re-application application for the annual extension of the scholarship ratio. The scholarship is an investment. It is an investment in the knowledge of our young people, which is in the interest of the state. However, the receipt of the grant is certainly closely linked to responsibility, including to the grantor, either the State or the private economic operator. As we understand in New Slovenia, the bill also provides for a simplification of the verification of the conditions of the residence allowance, which will be checked only at the first application and if possible a change in temporary residence. The latter will be checked by the public fund through the central register of the population. Also important is the way in which a success allowance is awarded, which is no longer linked to ECTS, but to final success. Both the social and cultural disadvantaged and the gifted will be better taken care of through the allocation of the supplement also at the transition from the first-degree study programme to the second bologna level. With this measure, everyone will have the same opportunity to successfully complete a master's degree. The draft law also regulates cases of reimbursement of the grant, corrects the shortcomings of the current law, in which it stipulated that recovery is necessary only in the case of a failed year. We welcome the proposal that scholarships should not be returned to scholarships which do not complete the year for excusable reasons, since in Slovenia we have different forms of social distress among students. Slovenia is a social state and young people are the foundation of society, so we must do everything in our power to ensure that everyone has equal starting points. In the New Slovenia Group, we welcome any measure that makes it easier and better for young people at all levels of education and initiatives that make it easier to decide on scholarships, especially state scholarships. These represent the biggest administrative burden for social work centres, as they issue about 80,000 decisions a year. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u60	Dr. Mirjam Bom Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u61	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scholarships introduces changes in the decision to grant scholarships, which will be easier from now on. In addition, with the amendment to the Act on Scholarships, provisions defining the termination of the scholarship and the return of the scholarship in the event of a failure to complete the year will become less stringent and more lifelike. However, as the Government points out, the proposed novelty will bring some simplifications and de-de-barcation in deciding on certain rights, such as a residence allowance, as well as procedures such as the retirement of the scholarship relationship. It is right to ensure that students and students do not deal with bureaucratic roles and complex procedures on their way, but focus all their energy on achieving their life and study goals. This is how young people have supported the bill, and as I said in the debate on the working body, if they are satisfied, we are pleased. We will support the new law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u62	Mag. Tanja Zink will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u63	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, dear colleague and colleague! The aim of the grant is to promote education and achieve higher levels of education for recipients or recipients of scholarships. The scholarships in the Republic of Slovenia represent an additional remuneration which is intended to cover the costs related to education. The new Act on the grant we have before us was prepared for amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds adopted by Members in December last year. A substantial amendment introduced by the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds was an automated IT calculation. This eliminated the annual application for annual rights and automatically extended the right to a grant to beneficiaries by means of an IT calculation each year. This is also the main reason why amendments to the Act on Scholarships are urgently needed, while the amendment also removes administrative barriers to scholarships and relieves grantors of scholarships, namely social work centres and the Public Scholarship, Developmental, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. We support the proposal of the Modern Centre's Parliamentary Group, in particular because the proposed amendments provide the basis for the unloading of social work centres. The introduction of an automated IT calculation will automatically extend the grant right every year. Since we know how much social work centres are burdened with administrative work, instead of focusing on work with people and work on the ground, this change is still welcome. At the same time, we are pleased that the proposal of the law is also supported by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, although they have pointed out the austerity measures that are still present in the field of state scholarships. We welcome the proposed amendments to the Modern Centre Party Group, but we believe that a thorough reflection should also be made on whether it is appropriate, in accordance with the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources in the Censorship for the grant, to take into account the child allowance, the cash social assistance and the protection allowance. According to the definition of the scholarship, the scholarship is intended to cover the costs of education and is not a social transfer. By placing the right to a state grant in fourth place in the order of enforcement of rights from public funds, we can conclude that this is to be considered a social transfer. The question that we have to ask ourselves here is whether someone who is entitled to all the above rights from public funds can indeed be entitled to a lower state grant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u64	Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We will not oppose the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, but there is something to be said about this law. While we welcome some changes, additional definitions or rather additional conditions that make a lot more clear, more effective, including removing some bureaucratic obstacles and trying to make this system as effective as possible. This is considered a plus, of course, and on the other hand, we consider athletes to be still in a deprived position. We know what happened in 2013, what the then Minister, who, by the way, resigned or who is doing business today, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark did. With that change, two were appointed as a condition for receiving a scholarship — that you must have a remarkable achievement and that you must be successful in the education process. Before that, there was only one condition, either one or the other. In addition, sports achievements have been removed from the field of outstanding achievements. This is what someone who goes to school today is not entitled to Zois' scholarship because he is an athlete and because he is not entitled to it under this law. He can be a top-notch sport achievement, but because sports achievements are not counted, they are not criteria, but Zois's scholarship cannot be obtained. I ask you why this attitude towards our young hopes, to our young athletes, but when we know how politicians, especially the Government, the President of the Government, ministers, especially the Minister of Education, you like to paint with our athletes when they bring gold, silver, bronze medals, other medals and so on from abroad. We know what is happening now, in the past days, weeks, what rewards Prime Minister Miro Cerar has promised to our top athletes basketball players who were first, and today he does not hope to face them because we know how it is with these awards. So, on the one hand, we talk about how we support athletes, take pictures with them, and, on the other hand, the machete's attitude towards them. If one’s participation in an international conference is considered to be a remarkable achievement – then it may also be a condition for a scholarship – I wonder why this participation at an international conference is worth more than one gold medal at a European, global, and also another championship. I think it's worth as much as each other, and by discriminating young athletes, spitting in our own bowls and preventing young people from developing their talents, developing their potentials even more, and by the time they are educated, the country will give them some credit for it. I'm specifically talking about Zois' scholarship. We truly believed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this law would correct this injustice, but unfortunately that is not the case. We are really interested in the answer to the question why the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has such a stepmotherly attitude towards athletes, especially those young people. Why didn't you fix it? Why are sports not yet remarkable achievements? And why is it still, if you've already excluded them, still both criteria if the system worked before? In short, these are questions to which we will have to answer, not only to answer, but also to seek and propose solutions in the future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will do so if you give us your vote in the elections on 3 June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u66	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 19 April, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the amendment of the Employment, Self-employment Act and the work of foreigners after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, namely the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u67	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! With the proposal of the law before you, the Slovenian Ministry of Labour wants to enable the Slovenian economy to deliver more quickly appropriate foreign labour, to encourage positive factors of the Republic of Slovenia as an economically attractive environment, and to enable better conditions for businesses that meet certain conditions. In view of the above, the Ministry of Labour has joined the drafting of a bill, which was created in close cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The proposal for a law on the employment of foreigners introduces changes and additions related to the law governing the promotion of investments. The Investment Promotion Act adopted by the National Assembly in February this year establishes two registers, among other things. Register of enterprises with high added value and register of innovative start-ups. In line with the direction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide an attractive and predictable business environment in Slovenia for the smooth functioning of both domestic and foreign companies, it is also proposed to supplement the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act in the context of speeding up foreign employment procedures. In doing so, the fundamental objective of the proposed amendment to the legislative framework is to introduce a legal basis that would allow employers, within the framework of the registers of high value-added enterprises and in the register of start-ups, to employ foreigners faster and easier. In line with the economic interest of the State and the labour gap in the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia, we aim to allow these companies to relatively simpler and faster fill their workforce gaps with the employment of foreigners while ensuring an equal level of protection of rights and legal security for migrant workers. It will also be determined before the employment of foreigners in these cases whether appropriate domestic staff exist for the recruitment of these jobs in the unemployment register. The proposed changes are similar to systemic solutions already introduced in practice by some European countries and show positive effects on the country's economic environment. The law before you, therefore, is prepared in the context of promoting and taking into account the interests of the Slovenian economy, provides support for companies that are recognised as trustworthy or reliable in terms of respect for labour law and tax legislation. Accordingly, I ask you to support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u68	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 71st session of 11. 4. 2018 as a parent labour body considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Employment, Self-Employment and the Work of Foreigners. It was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the procedure followed a reduced procedure. Representatives of the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the State Council and representatives of the Labour Advisory Office, participated in the work of the Committee itself. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and drew attention to the proposed solution in Article 16 of the Act. We were also presented to the Committee with the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which endorsed or supported the amendment of the law. From the debate. The fundamental objective of the proposed amendment is to introduce in the legislative framework a legal basis that would allow employers in the register of highly added value-added enterprises or in the register of start-ups to employ foreigners faster and simpler. In accordance with the economic interest of the State of Slovenia and due to the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia, the absence of relevant experts is sought or sought to allow those companies to relatively simpler and faster employment gaps with the employment of foreigners while ensuring equal protection of rights and legal security for migrant workers. The amendment of this Act adds an exception to the verification of the conditions to be checked by the Office of Employment under an official obligation in the procedure for giving consent to the employment of a foreigner in an undertaking which is entered in the register of undertakings with high value added or register of innovative start-ups on the basis of the provisions of the law governing the promotion of investments. This ensures easier and faster procedures for the employment of foreigners for those companies. Despite some criticisms and concerns arising from the debate on the labour market, the proposal for a law related to the Investment Promotion Act is intended primarily but not exclusively for easier and faster employment of foreigners. However, before the authorisation is granted, the labour market will still be reviewed with our labour force, i.e. with job seekers who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But this is about – which is essential in protecting our workers, our people – eliminating double unnecessary administration. The Committee further adopted the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2 and finally voted on both — the law has only two articles — and adopted them together. In the light of the amendment adopted to this Article 2 and pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law which includes the adoption of the amendment is prepared. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report, which I briefly presented to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u70	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u71	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! The new Law on Employment, Self-employment and the Work of Foreigners is necessary to comply with the law governing investment promotion. The proposal to supplement the law on employment, self-employment and the work of foreigners is closely linked to the Investment Promotion Act adopted. By providing an adequate legal basis for employers from the register of high value-added enterprises or the register of legal firms, faster and simpler employment of foreigners will be possible while ensuring equal levels of protection of rights and legal certainty for migrant workers. The proposed Investment Promotion Act proposes a new, systematic way of promoting investment in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Among other things, the bill establishes two registers: a register of high value-added enterprises and a register of innovative law firms. Companies registered in one of those registers often face difficulties in meeting their human resources needs due to the lack of adequate experts in the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, Slovenian companies are mostly helping to employ highly qualified foreign experts with special skills. In line with the direction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to ensure an attractive and predictable business environment in Slovenia for the smooth functioning of both domestic and foreign companies, and in order to reduce the rigidity of labour law, it is also proposed to supplement the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act with the proposed solution to companies registered in one of the registers, allowing the employment of foreigners, third-country nationals after a faster or shorter procedure. For simpler or faster procedures for the employment of foreigners in high value-added enterprises and start-ups, the novelty allows for a faster procedure for the employment of foreigners, as the institution will no longer check in accordance with the amendment to certain conditions in the case of employment of foreigners in exposed companies. We will, of course, support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u72	The text is given by the Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u73	Hello! Whenever the Ministry proposes to amend the law on the employment of foreigners, it is a matter of dealing with the big and small concerns of employers, which in practice appear to be a reduction in rights and hindering the growth of wages at home. The deregulation proposals, which are skillfully packaged in talking about removing administrative barriers, increasing competition, lack of domestic labour and similar flossules, tend to mean harm, violation of the labour rights of foreigners and stimulation of social dumping at home. We do not support such proposals in Levica. If I can explain. The starting point for the proposed changes is the idea that employers in so-called innovative start-ups and high value-added companies face a lack of well-educated staff, so we need to enable them to operate successfully by removing administrative barriers. We don't believe these mythological stories in Levica. In Slovenia we do not have a problem with lack of trained personnel. If they did, the Ministry would also explain and prove this, which it did not do in the recital. The problem is not a lack of personnel, but as I pointed out at the previous point in the law on scholarships, low wages and high living costs. The people, especially the educated youths we have to deal with, are fleeing the country. We have a good education system, students who achieve international recognition in specialized areas, a bunch of innovative young people, and if anything, the ministry should strive to employ mainly foreign educated young people in these companies, but not to create legal incentives for social dumping. If there is a need to do so or if there is a shortage of domestic knowledge, two or three additional papers are by no means a problem that the National Assembly should solve just before the end of its term of office at an extraordinary meeting. Thus, the task of authority is not to deal with any such small problem of employers over time, but to provide for good living conditions and decent wages in the first place. It does not, however, give employers pause to keep low wages by importing people from abroad at a time of falling unemployment. Such proposals, by encouraging and facilitating the import of foreign labour, are doing precisely this to the resulting paid dumping – reducing the growth of Slovenian domestic wages. The Slovenian authorities, including the current coalition, have planned to keep wage growth at a low level. The way they do this is to maintain low social assistance, so that people must accept each and every one of them as exploitative, dishonest, poorly paid work on the one hand, and, on the other hand, as a deregulation for imports of cheap labour from abroad. Our doubts about the good intentions of such proposals are not unfounded. The last amendment to the same law suggested, on a similar basis, that certain infringements of labour law would no longer form the basis for banning the continued employment of foreigners. During these exceptions, the employer’s breach of the minimum living or hygiene standards and other major infringements in the field of working time, rest, allowances, leave and leave were initially proposed. At that time, the employer could have calmly violated them, but nothing serious would have happened to him, and since in Levica we raised our voices against these absurd changes and proposed the amendment that had drawn the dumped changes, the coalition also encountered intelligence or, more precisely, coalition and intelligence met halfway. They proposed an amendment that removed the worst violations from the proposed exceptions but still left some infringements inside, including a violation of the right to annual leave. That is why we voted against the amendment of this law in Levica at the time, and we will do the same today. In particular, during the period of economic growth, companies must be forced to restructure and absorb those young people who are now going abroad or who are doing poorly paid work despite their high education. The legislator's task is to provide for higher wages and affordable housing, not to do the opposite – to stimulate employers' profits at the expense of importing cheap labour, wage dumping, which is the direction in which the current legislative proposal goes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u74	Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Vice President. Amendments to the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act are necessary in view of the February adoption of the Investment Promotion Act. The Investment Promotion Act sets out in Articles 30 and 31 a register of highly value-added enterprises and a register of innovative start-ups. However, the novelty in question is intended to allow companies which are registered in one of these two registers to facilitate the employment of foreigners in such a way as to ensure that the Employment Office does not have to verify compliance with certain conditions in the issuing process or to extend the uniform authorisation. In the debate on the labour market, the fear of deregulation of the labour market was exposed. In doing so, I should like to point out that the proposed amendment is not at all a matter of abandoning the verification of these particular conditions, but of administrative simplification, as a dual verification of these conditions is being eliminated. In short, compliance with these conditions will have to be demonstrated by companies when entering the register mentioned above, which will be checked by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. It therefore seems urgent to me to stress that this legislative change does not constitute any deregulation of the labour market, as some may explain. It is only to prevent another administrative obstacle that Slovenian companies face again and again. The change itself is undoubtedly a largely start-up issue and the fact is that these companies need to be understood and supported because in the future, precisely these companies will create most of the new jobs both at home and in the world. If I merely mention that in the years 2005 to 2016 Slovenian start-ups raised about 400 million dollars in investments, it is clear that the country must pay particular attention to this area. By adopting the proposed amendments, we will make an important contribution to the Investment Promotion Act achieving its objective, which is to encourage initial investments in order to attract investors to a sustainable investment in our area. Slovenian start-ups need a highly educated and trained staff on the global market, but because of unfriendly legislation, they are waiting for the opportunity to enter. The adoption of the amendments under consideration is therefore essential for faster economic development and also for enhancing the competitiveness of Slovenia. At this point, it is also worth mentioning that one of the main starting points of the coalition agreement is a predictable and simple business environment, including the simplification of licensing procedures. This is just another proof that the government under the leadership of Dr. Mir Cerar, despite his ongoing operations, is fulfilling his commitments under the coalition agreement. In the Modern Centre Party, we attach particular importance to the removal of administrative barriers, which also comes from our electoral programme. We advocate a user-friendly and efficient public service, within which we will continue to remove administrative barriers. We will support the bill in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, but at this point we appeal to the Ministry of Labour to consider, in the light of the economic warnings regarding the lack of labour, the need to apply double criteria in the employment of foreigners. On the one hand, it wants to encourage easier employment of foreigners, while on the other hand it wants to limit the employment of citizens of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u76	Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Allow this time really very briefly the Group's position to complement the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act. By acknowledgment of this law, the companies defined in the recently adopted Investment Promotion Act as highly value-added enterprises and innovative start-ups or so-called start-up companies will be able to employ foreign personnel more quickly and easily. It is evident that in practice there are problems with the lack of adequate domestic experts for the particular areas in which those companies operate, this start-up of the company, so it is essential to make it easier for those employers, especially faster employment of foreigners, while ensuring the same level of protection of rights and legal certainty for migrant workers. Ladies and gentlemen, what seems particularly important to us in this law is that the novelty, the content of this law, does not mean that foreigners will be able to get jobs faster, to jobs more quickly than our citizens and citizens, so that foreigners would have some privilege towards our citizens. Binding this bill to the Investment Promotion Act merely eliminates duplication and administration, excessive administrative regulation of procedures for granting employment permits to foreigners. This eliminates the unnecessary double checking of certain conditions that will be verified in accordance with the already mentioned Act for those undertakings prior to the entry into one of the business registers. The adoption of this law will have a positive impact; we in the Desus Group are confident, both on the economy and as a result on employment, that the number of unemployed will not yet be reduced, that higher amounts will be made in the budget and in both the cash registers, both in the pension and in the health sector. This measure, and many others envisaged under the above-mentioned laws, will increase or make the business environment more attractive and at the same time increase the competitiveness of our Slovenian economy. The latter can undoubtedly contribute to even more favourable economic growth and better indicators in the future, so, as we say, in the Desus Group, we will unanimously support this bill's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u78	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 19 April, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts the 6th item of the agenda. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Act on Social Security Benefits. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, namely the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u79	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I guess I have one of the most difficult roles to play in this term, because we have to give certain explanations to the things that everyone likes. Today you will vote on the proposal to raise minimum income. The government has proposed an increase from €297 to €331, representing 11%. Today, you have a proposal to raise this amount to EUR 385. We probably all agree in this hall that it is also difficult to survive with 385 euros. However, I am here before you also in the role of Minister of Labour, so before you vote on this proposal, I would like to draw your attention to certain consequences and give this amount in a broader social context. This amount, which you will vote on, is equivalent to the difference between those who work in Slovenia and those who do not. Work, I believe it is a value and must remain a value, and it seems to me that work is a value in our society. I think that people who go to work every morning are there for eight hours, a lot of them not even in good conditions, we just can't do that. Under these conditions, who will be happy to go to work every morning? That there will be no impression that I am speaking to myself and that I do not wish to allow people this promotion – I will speak for a two-parent family with one child in kindergarten and one in primary school. You must be aware that, in addition to income such as the minimum income today, when talking about monetary social assistance, account must also be taken of the amount of other social transfers that relate to the material situation of the family, so we are talking about the child supplement, we are talking about the right to an exemption from supplementary health insurance, we are talking about a subsidy for kindergartens, lunches, lunches and rents. When we take the proposal that is on the table today, such a family with two parents who do not work will be entitled to – when I count income – a thousand EUR 104. The family, where two parents work and receive a minimum wage, will have, this family, the available income of a thousand EUR 334. Two with an average salary and such families in Slovenia are unfortunately not much, they will have the available income of a thousand 852 euros. So the difference between those who receive cash social assistance because they cannot work and those who work for a minimum wage is €230 net per month. To those where there are two with an average salary, 750 euros of available income. I agree that these amounts are low, that they are too low in the Republic of Slovenia, but these are the facts at a given point in your decision. Let me add the most important thing to make it not look like we don't care about the most vulnerable. Yesterday you confirmed a very important law on the social inclusion of people with disabilities, where the most vulnerable, those unable to help themselves, make their situation and their lives significantly easier. I think this is the basic task of the state. It's 100 million euros in financial implications, and if we think about it and say it's irrelevant, it's still important to think that this means that we could build 15 homes for the elderly, 2 000 250 cities could provide for the elderly. Dear Members and honourable Members, I think we all agree and allow people who do not have other resources to survive to earn higher amounts. The Government's proposal was raised by 11% and maintained the existing social relations with regard to those who work according to wages in the Republic of Slovenia. I wish we could keep this relationship alive. You have a difficult decision ahead of you today, but as Minister of Labour, I am obliged to give these warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Vice President, for the last time on this stage today. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 71st emergency session of 11. On 4 this year, as the mother labour body, the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits, the Government's proposal, the procedure is shortened. Participating members: Ministry of Labour or Government representatives, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the Labour Advisory and Friday for a smile as representatives of the Civil Society Initiative. Position or opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service: No comments. Amendments tabled: Group of Members of the Left to Articles 1 and 8. Initially, it was submitted that in the amendment the basic amount of minimum income increased from EUR 288 to EUR 331, representing 75% of the basic minimum cost of living. As a result of the debate, all the debaters actually supported the amendment of the law, but some highlighted the fact that it is difficult or impossible to survive such benefits. The new survey found that the basic minimum cost of living was 441,67 euros. An amendment has been proposed to determine the minimum income by covering this 100 % of the basic or short-term minimum cost of living, not only 75%, as proposed by the Government at 331,26 euros. It was also pointed out that sufficient social benefits were the constitutional right of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, not the charity which should be arbitrarily determined by someone at a political level. The official survey on minimum cost of living resulting from the debate showed that in 2016 the figures amounted to EUR 613 per month. Researchers have deducted from these costs expenditure on cultural events, recreation, vehicle insurance, maintenance of dwellings and the like which they consider to be socially at risk, temporarily but not permanently, they deny. Thus they calculated the so-called short-term or just basic cost of living of €441, which represents a bare existential minimum. The basic amount of social assistance proposed by the Government covers only 75% of the existing minimum, which is considered unacceptable by some to be the result of a debate on the Committee. Most recipients of social assistance are currently unemployed or very difficult to employ. The amount of social assistance should therefore not affect their work activity. In addition, the belief that social policy is about preventing poverty, rather than providing cheap labour, was also highlighted. The difference between social benefits and salaries, i.e. work benefits, is not allowed to be increased by maintaining too low social benefits, but by raising wages, particularly minimum wages, and consequently average and higher wages, as the Minister for Labour has also said before me. In the course of the discussion, we decided on the amendments between the members and the members of the Committee. We have not accepted the amendment of the Left to raise the minimum income to EUR 441, and we have supported the amendment to raise this amount to EUR 385.05 by the end of the year from 1 June, when the law is to begin – I am sure it will come into force. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the law together. In view of the adoption of the amendment – a transitional amount of EUR 385 by the end of the year – and pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report, which I have been trying to present to you in this short time. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u82	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. The proposed government law comes too late and gives too little. Why too late? The Minister of Labour already signed the Social Agreement in February 2015. On behalf of the Government, it promised to align social assistance by the end of 2016 with the cost of living. Well, today, today is April 18, 2018, and the proposed law is due to enter into force on June 1st. So the government allowed people to live for a year and a half with incomes that, even by their own government criteria, do not allow them to survive normally. Why not? Because the government proposal covers only 75% of the existing minimum. So not only is the law adopted late, but this law would provide only three quarters of the social state to the socially disadvantaged. For us in Levica, this is absolutely unacceptable. Normal social contributions are the constitutional right of all citizens, not charity, which depends on the good will of every government. Members of the Left have reached a meeting of the Committee that the coalition has agreed that the basic amount of social assistance will gradually rise to EUR 385, which is still below the existential minimum, but is at least the first step towards social protection that everyone can rely on. We will see in the vote whether the coalition MPs will withstand the pressure of ministers for employers and finance. After our amendment was adopted, right-wing media attacked us with various pitiful insinuations, which I must reject in this place. First of all, I would like to say that everyone can happen very quickly, that they will need social protection, and that does not require much – corporate bankruptcy, espionage collapse, traffic accident, long-term illness. Therefore, normal social benefits are in the interest of every resident, even if they are not needed at the moment. A higher basic amount of social assistance also means a higher security allowance for poor pensioners, higher social assistance also benefits the unemployed who lose their right to compensation. The government opposes our proposals by arguing that higher social benefits cause a trap of inactivity. The government de facto claims that people in social distress are lazy people who do not want to work. This flat-rate conviction is wrong and criminal. In March, the Minister for Labour himself acknowledged that half of the unemployed are employed only through intensive employment policy measures; others are currently not employed because of illness and other obstacles. I repeat, in such a situation anyone can be found, because the reserve army of the unemployed is necessary to preserve capitalism. Social assistance isn't too high at all, wages are too low. Why are these salaries too low? Because the political class does not want to act and force capital to the corporate owners to spill some of their profits into a better standard of the working class. The aim of social policy is to eradicate poverty, not to sustain it. And if employers have problems with obtaining labour, they should provide better wages and working conditions and the problem will be resolved quickly. Low social benefits are not only the problem of socially disadvantaged people but also of all working people. Again, why are wages so low in Slovenia? Because employers of persistent workers who demand a fairer payment may be replaced by foreigners or unemployed workers who must accept the worst working conditions. And why do workers tolerate this extreme exploitation? Because they cannot rely on the social state to say no to extreme exploitation and their backs would be protected. This vicious circle needs to be cut off, but it can only be cut off by providing the socially disadvantaged with benefits that enable normal survival and the employees with salaries that will enable a good life. We'll support this marriage in the left hand side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u84	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u85	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague! Slovenia is and must remain a social state. We must not discuss here whether 300 euros or 385 euros in social assistance, when an accident occurs due to bankruptcy or whatever, we must discuss here the cost of living for a person worth living. I think 10 or 12 euros a day is not worth living for. But here I must attach to the opinion of the Minister of Labour, who is also thinking in this direction that it is necessary to work in Slovenia. But today in Nova Slovenija we claim that it is not worth working in Slovenia. It is not worth working in Slovenia. We strongly insist on the view that the best social policy is the policy that gives the possibility of economic prosperity by the model of the social market economy. According to the model of the social market economy. This model has been tested in Europe's most powerful economies and beyond. Wages, that's what we mean by net wages, are too low. The difference between gross and net wages is too great, indicating the country's greed or the uncompetitive business environment in Slovenia. I have played a few games with fresh figures on salaries, wage growth in Slovenia and, of course, comparatively within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't know – I know you know – Slovenia is 17th in the EU after the gross wage growth in 2014 compared to 2014. 17th place. This is the worst information for Slovenia. Given that we are in the lower half of the countries on wages, of course we should grow faster than the median, this is said to be faster than average knowledge to reach it. Not grow any slower! More eloquent information than the city is the nominal value of growth. Watch out! 4,87%. By 4.87%, wages have increased in Slovenia over the last four years. What about our neighbours, our competitors, our economic partners and our competitors? Austria has grown, you won't believe it, by 29%. Now you understand why so many people go to work in Austria. It's very simple for people to understand. Germany 22%, Hungary 18%, Czech Republic 34% in four years. That's the information, I can honor the table I've prepared or my son has prepared it for me. However, in relation to the proposal for a social security benefit law, we must say that the difference between social assistance and minimum wage is already too low. These are public information available in various media. The data confirm the findings of New Slovenia that the difference between payment for work and the amount of social assistance is too small in Slovenia. As many employees find out, they might say they're stupid people who work for a minimum wage. However, the bill we are considering does not raise net salaries for employees, as we would expect from the available data. On the contrary, it raises the amount of social assistance. In the above context, this is at least sweetly said, in New Slovenia we claim that it is simply not fair, it is not fair that the difference in income between a four-member family where the parents receive minimum wages and the same family where none of the parents work is just a little more than, according to the Minister, 230 euros. In Novi Slovenija we ask you whether this is fair. The Ministry of Labour, the bill's proposer, also states in its proposal: “In the event that the growth of social transfers is growing faster than the growth of wages, the share of social transfers in the available income is growing, which means that the individual or family is becoming more dependent on social transfers.” Members of New Slovenia cannot support a bill that evaluates work and does not reward employees. So we won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u86	Mr Saša Tabakovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u87	Mr President, the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The main amendments to the amendment in question provide for a higher basic amount of minimum income and a change in the equivalent scale to determine the minimum income for individual family members in order to increase social security limits for single persons and couples without children. With the proposed change of weightings, families with children will remain at about the same level of social security as they are now. The reason for this is that the majority of recipients of social assistance are single and are most often exposed to poverty. The text of the bill itself explains that resources for the implementation of the law will be provided through transfers within the Ministry of Labour – we hope not at the expense of children's allowances, scholarships and necessary labour inspectors. At the Modern Centre, we support the proposal for a law because unemployed single persons are the most vulnerable group within the social policy that touches on the issue of existence and decent work. The Ministry has not paid much attention to the systematic regulation of this area since its re-emergency. With the support of the amendment of the Left to increase the allowance to the unemployed, we have given a clear signal that the next government will have to tackle this problem as soon as possible, and by the end of the year no later than the end of the year, seriously, responsibly and politically appropriately. After all, we are talking about individuals who receive social amounts that are barely enough to survive, let alone live. True, a person’s work provides dignity, but his dignity must also be cared for when his work is not available. This is our civil duty. In the debates of fellow Members, it has been heard several times in the past that the Party of the Modern Centre, as the largest government party, has not done much to improve the socio-economic situation of the most vulnerable, even though a number of austerity measures introduced by Zujf during the Janšev government have been abolished in this call by the National Assembly. A number of measures have also been taken to alleviate the social distress of the most vulnerable. But at this point, I'd like to remind you of something that happened last week. At an urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, Members are expected to discuss the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds with regard to the exemption of the child allowance from the Census for Money Social Assistance. As a proposal, the Levica Group proposed an amendment with a view to improving the situation of socially disadvantaged families. Unfortunately, it was not possible to discuss the bill itself, since we were too few Members, apart from the proposal, to overcome so much political hygiene that we could even discuss the proposal with the presence of the committee at the meeting. This clearly shows that the issue of the situation of socially disadvantaged families for some parliamentary groups is a secondary issue that has priority over the politically motivated obstruction of meetings at which or will be dealt with by the laws of the Member States. So much for current social policy and concern for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u88	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very nice welcome. We have before us a proposal for a law that will have an important impact on the economic situation of those entitled to social transfers, most of whom are dependent on monetary social assistance. In spite of the initial opposition from the Minister of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia only accepted an increase in the basic amount of minimum income and, consequently, financial social assistance for a good 11%, nominally 34 euros, from the current value of 288,81 euros to the proposed 331,26 euros. In the Desus Group, we are aware that this amount is still far from viable, and that is why the urgency for even higher social assistance is certainly worth considering. On the other hand, we must be aware of other important indicators, such as the proportions of monetary social assistance with the amount of minimum wage, the amount of the minimum full-time pension and, at the end of the period, the increase in the trap of inactivity of the people themselves. In view of the debate already held on the working body on the further increase in this aid and in view of the fact that we are not a single opinion in the Desus Group, we will therefore vote on the content of this proposal by conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u90	Mr Jan Škoberne will present, as the last one today, the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In this mandate, this government has given careful attention to two components of social development, balanced economic development and growth, and the gradual and balanced release of austerity measures, which have enabled and will continue to allow, through the amendments to the law proposed by the Minister, the spillover of economic growth to those who are the weakest in our society, but not only to those who are all in our society. It is therefore not important to emphasise that the Minister's proposal for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities for 11% to raise monetary social assistance is only one of the measures taken by this mandate. Let me just remind you of the rise in the minimum pension, the release of the new classes of child supplement, the thousands of new scholarships, not to mention exceptional efforts, including financial and, in particular, human resources and programming, which we have invested in the active employment policy, the result of which, in relation to the times of crisis, we have halved unemployment and significantly increased employment in the country, so that from a situation where we had to solve the naked existence of people and families, we have come up with a situation where people can create themselves again with their work, fairly their existence. Therefore, what has happened in this law is something that is probably mainly due to – I am talking about amendments on the committee – the pre-election chills and the fact that the National Assembly takes laws a month before the pre-election campaign and, without any sober consideration, amends them in order to win or receive more votes for each of us and that someone loses a voice. What is happening on this and that committee at this time, a sober state institution, a sober representation of people and their interests would never begin. Throughout this mandate, we have supported the efforts of the Minister and the Government to improve the situation of the weakest, to see economic growth spill over to them, but on the other hand, to try, most importantly, to bring as many people back to the labour market to activate them to enable them to take care of themselves and their family, not to live on minimum income, but to create more themselves. Because we think that's right. Just as we think it is wrong to sell pre-election candy for a small vote, which will end up worth 100 million euros and will have to be implemented by the next government in one way or another. This makes it very clear that someone is trying to show that he cares about people. Take responsibility for how much he cares, put it on someone else. We support the proposal for a raise, as prepared by the Minister, because it is from the time that this Parliament acted soberly. Now that it is no longer possible to say this, we will be absolved of the consequences of the amendments contained in this title because we want to take responsibility for our votes, for our policies and for our actions, but not to place it on someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u92	Procedurally, Mr. Jurša, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u93	Vice President, thank you for your word. I think it is right and also responsible to tell the Slovenian public and ourselves that we are talking today about this point of social policy, to which more or less of all parliamentary groups and political parties are also citing and expressing concern for this area. But very interestingly, we have recently sat in this Chamber only Members Desus and SD, recently joined us by two SMCs, a Member and a Member of Parliament, and one Member sitting on the SDS. I don't know if he belongs to this group, he hasn't made it public yet, but that is an expression of the situation and of course an interest in this area. I'm sorry. Very bad interest. And at the election meetings, that's exactly what we're going to talk about.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-04-18-SDZ7-Izredna-60.ana.u94	I don't think there's anything to add to your words, Mr. Jurša. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 19 April, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby interrupt the 7th agenda item and the 60th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. All together, have a nice sunny day. Thank you very much.
