ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Anja Bah Žibert, Eva Irgl, Iva Dimic by 3 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin and Blaze Pavlin by 2 p.m. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Marjan Šarc, and the candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the 1st item of the agenda. I welcome all present! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 12 September 2018 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the agenda item or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set by reference to the meeting. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — List of Candidates and Candidates for Ministers and Ministers of Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 112(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 229(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Marjan Sarec, proposed to the National Assembly the appointment of ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. He submitted a list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers to the President of the National Assembly on 30 August 2018 and on 7 September 2018, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 231 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, withdrew the proposal for a nomination for a Minister of Public Administration and submitted a new nomination for a Minister. The President of the Government therefore proposes to appoint Mr Mark Bandell as Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Dr Andre Bertoncl as Minister of Finance, mag. Mr Alenko Bratušek as Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Miroslav Cerar as Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Peter Jožef Česnik as Minister without a department responsible for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia worldwide, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac as Minister of Defence, Mr Sam Fakin as Minister of Health, Mrs Andrejo Katič as Minister of Justice, Mag. Mr Ksenija Klampfer as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Juret Lebn as Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Rudi Medved as Minister of Public Administration, Dr Jernej Pikal as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Aleksandro Pivec as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr. Zdravko Počvalska as Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr. Boštjan Poklukar as Minister for Home Affairs, Mr. Dejan Prešiček as Minister of Culture. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarc, to further explain the proposal for appointments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, Candidates and Candidates, Citizens and Citizens! Before us is the final act of forming a new 13th Slovenian government. Within the time limit imposed on me by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I created a candidate list for ministerial posts in the future government. Several candidates have already done the work of a minister or a minister; others will face this task for the first time. The formation of the team took place in accordance with the agreement on the number of cities each party will occupy in the new government. Of course, the public's responses are different. If you propose someone who's already been in office, then they're obvious about continuity when you present a new name, they don't come up with a question about competence. It's just that in democracy, everyone is never satisfied, and many times no one. We can be grateful for democracy, because without hair on our tongue, we can criticize everything on average without fear of consequences, but there will be no success. Let me remind you, the human memory is short. Immediately after the elections, we listened to how many Members and Members would cross. Every day, I received questions about so-called risky members of our party who would just wait for them to go or sell themselves. We endured this peacefully because we knew that we were a serious team that went into politics with the goal of doing and doing something. When there was nothing out of it, we listened every day to the formation of such or other alternative coalition, which party would go somewhere. And that's not what happened. We further negotiated long and persistently, agreed, but due to such and different calculations, the first agreement fell into the water. But we didn't give up, because we know that without persistence there is no success. It's been a long, hard week. Today, honourable Members and Members, are sitting before you candidates and candidates who are ready to be the target of attacks, to have sleepless nights, to coordinate and, above all, to work to achieve results, because only the result ultimately counts. If I express myself sportingly, football without the goal achieved does not excuse expectations. Candidates and candidates have taken on a heavy burden because it is easier to observe and criticize than to do. We have a lot of work to do in all areas, and in particular in priority areas. The area of health where waiting types must be reduced urgently, using all available means. It is not just about money, it is about organising work, providing capacity, but in particular providing sufficient staff. These are difficult tasks waiting for a new team. The largest institution is definitely the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, where leadership efforts to improve the situation are visible. I expect the functioning of the Ministry and all health institutions in Slovenia to be coordinated, as otherwise it will be impossible to achieve any result. Finance, expertise and cooperation are key to solving the accumulated problems. A lot of emphasis will be placed on removing administrative barriers that prevent the system from functioning effectively. There are too many non-life rules that are intended for themselves and do not reflect everyday developments in practice. We have come so far as to make this sound almost utopian, but we must write laws and regulations that can also be implemented in practice. However, if the law is adopted, but in practice it appears that it is not optimal, it is also necessary to step back and correct it. Persisting just to avoid suffering ego is unacceptable. However, this does not mean that any interested party must be given up without arguments. Unfortunately, people are so committed that we love to use the system, so we must also provide for sanctions in every law, otherwise no regulation achieves its purpose. If it weren't, we wouldn't need a constitution, not a law. But I repeat that there will be no dilemma, the first condition is that the law is written life and in practice feasible. It is the responsibility of the writer of the law to write it in the interests of the state and the people, not the interests of individuals. Let's just remember the unfortunate stickers we put on the windshield during the technical inspection. The only result was that someone made a good living. This wasn't a lonely case. I am not a moralist and a saint, but I want a country where such cases will be exempted and also properly sanctioned. The Public Procurement Act is the basis of everything. There are many experts, but somehow we do not come up with optimal solutions. The problem is recognized, we're waiting for solutions. The key is who and whether it's in the interest of anyone. I'm sure we should all be. But of course we do not live in an ideal world where everyone is good and honest, so we must insist on improving the situation. Much and too much has been said in recent days, when governments have not yet been around, about taxes and the economy in the sense that this government will destroy the entrepreneurial initiative and create Venezuela. Never and never. Our country has always cared for the economy in a relatively short history. Sometimes more, a second less successful. Most of the damage in history has been done by the acquisitions of large and once successful companies that have been financed by exhausting these same companies. I won't go into the details because the situation is known. We lost our trademarks and thus weakened our identity and pride. Today, those who have played such and different roles are wise to see how we can get things done before we start working. That's my view. The view of someone who has not so far created state policies and knows how people think on the ground and experience it all together. I would most like this government to have contact with reality, but it will be the responsibility of every minister and his officials. We appreciate the economy, as we are aware that our large exporters and small economies generate a full budget income, which is financed by publicly available services to all citizens and citizens. I didn't want to get too involved in public debates these days, because they're fruitless and they're just creating unrest. It will be necessary to meet, even if some are still so difficult, and to exchange views culturally and to find operational solutions that are good for people. Today I'm going to listen to the obvious again that I'm not specific. This was also the way the ministers listened at the hearings. I agree. I'm not specific. I don't even want to be. Many in the past have been concrete and knew everything, but the problems are not solved. Every reckless promise comes back like a boomerang and hurts everyone. We must all be aware that the public sector provides public services, health services, education, in short, the ability of a person to become what he is. I repeat, the public sector and the economy must work hand in hand, but not to measure and look at each other. Our concept is not the concept of the United States of America, where everything is based on private services, so we cannot make such comparisons. It's a different arrangement. That's why taxes are different. Let's get rid of our speech society over the thumb, because that's what someone said in a newspaper that can be read quickly while waiting in line at a gas station. A government team in charge of the economy is a guarantee of a stable economic environment that favours investment. We want investment with high added value, where we will also take care of the worker. We will implement all measures in cooperation with both employers and employees. No one can prosper at the expense of another, but we must co-create. Sounds nice and simple, almost poetic, but in practice we're still a long way from that. We've got a lot of steps to take. The government will make them, but the government alone won't do enough. Others, too, will have to contribute their share of willingness to engage in dialogue — openly, without demagogism, with respect for one another. The proverb The beautiful word beautiful city will find every day on trial. Trust is built for a long time, it can be wasted overnight, so intolerance is out of place. We can have a nice house, we can understand each other, we have a nice picture on the walls, but if we have an open door on the track, we can have it all. The objective of the defence-security system and constitutional arrangements is illustrated. We are witnessing various forms of bickering and structures that are not part of democratic order. Anyone who wants to serve his country has enough cooperation. The paramilitary structures are not the right answer to the country's security and defence issues. Even the possible dissatisfaction with the general situation in the country cannot justify such actions. If we want to be a serious country, let us act this way in all areas. At the hearings held in the National Assembly, candidates and candidates presented their views on the future development of Slovenia. Each ministry has many areas of work and has to solve daily as well as long-term problems. At some point, I was getting comments that I had no idea and I was just looking at things when I said that ministries had to act in a way that they worked together. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it sounds so childishly simple, but in practice very difficult to reach. I speak from my own experience when, as responsible for the 40 millionth project, I had to sign the European Co-financing Treaty. There was an article in this contract that denied us the right to appeal if anything went wrong. We wanted to change that, but there was no other option but to wipe ourselves under our noses for money. Why? Since intersectoral coordination lasted six months, it was an answer. And that was just the tip of the iceberg on the long way to money. Most of the problems stemmed from non-cooperation, so I expect newly elected ministers and ministers to cooperate, and in particular their officials. Ellaborati, studies, judgements and all the other things are nice letters on paper, but if there's no dynamics, there'll be nothing. However, I believe it will be, because this is how I obtained assurances from all the candidates and candidates. Dear Members and Members! You have a list of candidates and candidates waiting for your confirmation. This will end the debt and, at times, the complex process of forming the 13th Slovenian government. There's been a lot of talk in the last weeks and cities from all over the place, and they've buried us before we were born. We've proven that we know how to speak, even if we have to. Now it's time to get started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister, for further explanation. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, candidates and candidates presented themselves to the competent working bodies and responded to questions raised by members and members of committees and commissions. You have received reports from the competent working bodies or opinions on the presentations of the proposed candidates and candidates. With this, we are moving, with respect and respect, to the presentation of the reports. The Joint Report of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Union Affairs will be presented by Gregor Perič, President of the Committee on the Economy and a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u4	Dear President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will present the report of the joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Union Affairs on Mr Mark Bandell's presentation as a candidate for a Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. Mr Bandelli, as a candidate for Minister, presented himself to both Committees 4. 9. 2018 and answered the questions of the members of the Committee. In the opening presentation, the candidate for Minister presented his current career path. highlighted his long-standing entrepreneurial experience and also the functions he has performed so far in his career. He further stressed that the main objective of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Development and European Cohesion Policy will remain the same, which is the maximum amount of European development funds. These funds promote economic growth, increase competitiveness and create quality jobs. In the discussion below, the members and members of the two Committees highlighted some important issues in the area of cohesion of development and strategic projects, and the candidate for a minister responded to the question raised, and the members and members of the committees were briefed on their views, views and opinions. He highlighted in particular the reduction of administrative burdens for applicants on European projects, public awareness and the potential afforded by cross-cutting coordination, as well as the potential offered by cooperation with local communities and the importance of effective lobbying in Brussels with regard to the multi-annual financial framework beyond 2020. All other details of the duration of the joint meeting of the two competent working bodies shall be made available on the magnetogram and also available there. Following the completion of the presentation of the Minister's candidate, the Committee on the Economy, with 10 votes in favour, 4 against, adopted the opinion that Mark Bandelli's presentation as a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion was appropriate. The Committee on the Affairs of the European Union adopted, by 9 votes to 5, with the opinion that Mark Bandelli's presentation as a candidate for a Minister without a director responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion was appropriate. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u5	Thanks for the introduction. The report of the Committee on Finance will be presented by President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u6	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I am submitting the report of the Committee on Finance on the presentation of Dr Andre Bertoncl as a candidate for the Minister of Finance. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Dr. Andrej Bertoncel presented himself to the Committee on Finance on 6 September this year and answered the questions raised by the members and members of the Committee. In the introduction, the proposed candidate for Minister presented in a comprehensive manner his vision first that Slovenia must remain an economic, successful and social state, which the Ministry of Finance will achieve by providing a stable public financial environment, a well-functioning financial system and creating a stable and predictable business environment. The Minister's candidate presented his assessment of Slovenia's economic situation and stressed that Slovenia must increase its economic performance and create the highest possible gross domestic product. He highlighted the need to respect the fiscal rule and the commitments of the European Stability and Growth Pact. He further stressed that only the continuation of high economic growth could provide greater levels of public expenditure for various purposes. He announced that the Ministry of Finance would be active in creating development opportunities and conditions for enhancing the economic efficiency of Slovenia. In addition, the candidate provided key guidance from the Ministry of Finance in relation to individual areas of work. In the area of the budget, he announced the continuation of the gradual fiscal consolidation of Slovenia. It has announced cooperation in the implementation of the envisaged structural reforms, which are otherwise within the competence of other sources, but have significant public financial implications. It has announced effective management of the debt sector of the state. In the tax area, he stressed the comprehensive budgetary neutral tax structure, the review and analysis of tax burdens, the improvement of the efficiency of collection of taxes and the revision of certain laws in the tax field. He further presented guidelines on the financial system, where he stressed that, in cooperation with Banka Slovenije, it was necessary to ensure conditions for banks to increase the size of their lending to the economy. He announced the continuation of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, d. d., and the Bank, d. d. In the international financial field, however, he announced the continuation of the policy of active co-forming European policies and active action within the framework of the Organisation for European Cooperation and Development. Members and members of the committee asked many questions in the debate to the candidate for Minister, Dr Andre Bertoncl, highlighting in particular the issue of additional debt and the reduction of public debt. They pointed out the structure of the deficit and the need for structural reforms; they pointed out the importance of compliance with the fiscal rule; they highlighted issues relating to tax legislation and specifically mentioned value added tax, real estate tax law, personal income taxes, excise duties, motor vehicle taxes and the issue of income scales and social caps. They highlighted the issue of tax debt recovery, as well as the importance of the creation of the Demographic Reserve Fund, which will in the future ensure the stability of the pension system mainly due to the expected deterioration of demographic image in Slovenia. They highlighted the effectiveness of drawing on the European Union's resources with a focus on cohesion, mentioning the issue of rural development, where the European Union's resources are the most declining and insufficient for all planned programmes. They also highlighted the importance of financing local self-government, establishing a different model for calculating appropriate consumption in municipalities, highlighting the issue of investment expenditure as the basis for a renewed model of calculation of appropriate consumption. This also raised the question of the mandatory tasks of the congregations. The proposed candidate for minister answered the questions raised and the members and members of the committee took a more detailed and concrete look at their views, views and opinions on some of the issues. Above all, it is important that, in terms of structural reforms, it has warned of worrying demographic trends, committed itself to the rapid entry of young people into the labour market and to the subsequent exit of older people. Regarding tax legislation, he stressed that changes would be necessary, but without good prudence, without basic calculations and in particular without all the simulations that such changes would bring forward would not represent any changes. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee on Finance, by 10 votes and no votes against, adopted the opinion that the presentation by Dr Andrei Bertonclja, the candidate for the Minister of Finance, was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u7	Thanks for the introduction. The Vice-President of Mag will present the report of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Two candidates presented themselves on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, the first candidate of Jura Leben as Minister of Environment and Space and the second candidate of mag. Alenka Bratušek as candidate for Minister of Infrastructure. The candidate for Minister Jura Leben said in his opening presentation that in the field of environment and environmental legislation, the effective use of resources and the transition to the circular economy should be monitored. The green economy must become a central long-term strategic focus through the development of new green technologies and more efficient management of natural resources while reducing environmental risks. As Minister, he will strive to take into account the five-step hierarchy of waste management in a consistent manner. This means preventing waste generation, re-use preparation, recycling, other treatment procedures, and not least waste disposal. He said that it was necessary to think as best as possible about the reuse of waste produced and to follow the aim of creating new ones as little as possible. As Minister, it will seek to minimise the use of various plastic products and to raise awareness of the negative effects of plastic products, especially microplastics. He stressed his support for the complete elimination of plastic bags and that it is essential that the Republic of Slovenia strives to equalise environmental rules or standards with comparable Member States of the European Union. Coordination and coordination of environmental policies should be carried out continuously at a horizontal level between the individual departments and vertically in interaction with civil initiatives, municipal companies, local communities, non-governmental organisations and the transnational environment. He stressed that they would introduce a two-stage drafting of legislative proposals and that, in line with the coalition commitments, he would act as Minister on the principle of zero tolerance towards environmental pollutants and advocate the rehabilitation of degraded environments, stressing in particular that the costs of rehabilitation must be borne primarily by those causing pollution. In the field of climate change, it highlighted the importance of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It also touched on building legislation, where it highlighted the need to adopt a number of sub-legislative acts, to draw up technical guidelines and to revise other building and technical regulations in order to comply with the new construction law. The system for regulating the premises and building facilities must be transparent, efficient and quality. Development initiatives need to be coordinated with the space protection requirements. He stressed that, in the area of housing policy, the gap between demand and the situation of housing on the market could only be resolved by placing more housing on the market, particularly for young and young families. The policy of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia should be directed towards the construction of public rental apartments and increased budgetary resources for these apartments. In particular, the new housing law should provide for changes in the areas of management and inspection decisions, renting policies, the introduction of a housing allowance and cost rents. There is an urgent need to improve the ratio of senior owners and managers and to develop a more efficient system for monitoring the situation and spending of money paid by owners in this fund. Housing fund policy must be upgraded by a coalition commitment to make more money, in which case 0.4% of gross domestic product invests in housing. It is necessary to increase the budget for housing, strengthen the networks of rent-free dwellings and increase the capacity in student homes. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee highlighted some important issues of the Ministry's work area and asked a number of questions for the Minister's candidate. The proposed candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space has answered the questions raised and the concerns expressed by the members and members of the Committee and has informed them of his views, opinions and views and the proposal for action in the individual areas exposed to his future activities at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the following opinion by 7 11 votes to 2 with the following vote: The presentation of Juret Lebna as Minister of Environment and Space was appropriate. As the second interviewee, the Magi presented herself. Alenka Bratusek. In the opening presentation, the candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure focused on transport, transport infrastructure and energy. In the area of transport and transport infrastructure, it stressed that the vision of transport policy is defined as ensuring sustainable mobility of the population and the supply of the economy. In this regard, in her presentation, she paid great attention to road infrastructure and highlighted the importance of providing adequate budgetary resources for regular and investment maintenance and the rehabilitation of road infrastructure. It stressed the need for active maintenance and renewal of the road network and the commitment of the coalition to ensure that the funds provided for this purpose in the transitional years of the state budget will not be lower than those provided in the 2018 State budget. In addition to the investment reconstruction and maintenance of road infrastructure, the priority of the next mandate will be to continue activities on the third development axis and the project to build the second tunnel tunnel of Karavanka. In the field of railway infrastructure, it highlighted the renewal and modernisation of the existing railway line on the sections of the Zidani Bridge-Celje, Maribor-Sentilj and Pragersko nodes, where it considers it necessary to increase the capacity of the railway lines, permeability and speed of train compositions throughout the railway network. The biggest challenge in rail infrastructure is the project to build the second track of the Divača-Koper line. It pointed out that the coalition contract indicated that the project would be implemented through the project company 2TKK, which was established in the previous term. She pointed out that there was a lot of controversy and different opinions about the appropriateness of the way to set up a special company for the construction of this project. In her personal opinion, from the point of view of public finances, it is certainly better that investment is not financed directly from the State budget. She stressed that negotiations with the Western countries would continue, while also exploring the possibility of financing a second track without the participation of those countries. In her personal opinion, this project could be carried out by Slovenia itself. Above all, it is important that drawing on European funds or co-financing of the project is not conditional on the participation of other countries in this project. In the field of energy, it stressed that it is a key task to ensure reliable supply, taking into account commitments made after the decarbonisation or reduction of the share of carbon dioxide. It stressed that these objectives could be achieved in the first place through energy efficiency measures, further support for the use of renewable energy sources, an appropriate energy mix and an appropriate degree of self-sufficiency. In order to achieve the energy objectives, it highlighted the importance of the energy concept of Slovenia as a document that must contain answers to key questions and provide key long-term guidance in this area. According to her opinion, the energy concept of Slovenia, which has been forwarded even to the National Assembly until the last term, but is now under review again, does not contain solutions to the key challenges that lie ahead in Slovenia in this area over a few years. She pointed out that, in her view, the energy concept of Slovenia needed to be complemented, which would set out more concrete ways to achieve its defined objectives. Supplements should be prepared in cooperation with the expert and by examining comments to be made by the public concerned at the time of public hearing. In the area of development energy infrastructure, it highlighted in particular the acceleration of procedures related to the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chains in the Central Sava and, in this regard, gave rise to the importance of good cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space. Regarding the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Mura River, she stressed the coalition commitment not to build in this mandate. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee highlighted some of the important issues in the Ministry's work area and asked the candidates a number of questions. The candidate responded extensively to the questions raised and the concerns expressed by the members and members of the Committee and informed them of her views, opinions and views and proposals for action. After the presentation, the Committee adopted the following opinion with 11 votes in favour and 4 against: Presentation by the candidate mags. Alenka Bratušek as Minister of Infrastructure was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u9	Thanks for the report. At the same time, the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy will be presented by the President, Mr Matjaž Germany. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much, distinguished President of the National Assembly, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government. In the opening presentation, the candidate for minister focused his presentation on four points. He will strive for an open, balanced and more unified foreign policy. He stressed that Slovenia is a core member of the European Union and that it will or will advocate effective multilateralism. Special attention will be given to economic diplomacy in its work, which must be introduced into the whole range of Slovenian foreign policy activities, and particular attention must also be paid to the conditions for the effective functioning of the entire system of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Members and members of the Committee highlighted some important current issues of foreign policy in the debate and asked the Minister's candidate, in particular the role and position of the Republic of Slovenia within the European Union and the definition of the most frequent alliances of the Republic of Slovenia within the EU. Forms of cooperation with the countries of the Visegraj Group, the role of the Republic of Slovenia in bilateral relations, in particular in relation to the Republic of Croatia. The members of the Foreign Policy Committees were also interested in further actions in view of the lack of respect for the arbitration decision by the Republic of Croatia, the importance of Euro-Atlantic integration in relation to the Western Balkans region and the future role of the Republic of Slovenia in these processes, the way the Republic of Slovenia faces current security and political challenges, the importance of economic diplomacy and the assistance of the Republic of Slovenia as a country of business, the importance of cultural diplomacy and the planning of cultural centres in neighbouring countries and other European capitals, the effectiveness of international development cooperation and many other issues, such as the identification of the priorities and challenges of the EU Presidency in the second half of 2021. In its answers to the questions raised, the candidate for a minister stressed that the Republic of Slovenia is a valued partner within the European Union and has good relations with all EU members. As an example of countries with which the Republic of Slovenia shares common interests and promotes the same values, he highlighted the countries of Benelux, Germany, Italy, France. The Republic of Slovenia also cooperates in depth in the development of monetary and banking union and seeks to safeguard democratic principles of rule of law and international law. He stressed that the Republic of Slovenia is the only EU Member State to be included in all three macro-regions, namely the Alpine, Danube and Adriatic-Ionian regions, and therefore cooperation with all Member States is necessary. In addition, he explained that cooperation with the V4 countries is regular and good, in particular in the area of infrastructure projects in the Republic of Slovenia within the macro-regions. With regard to relations with the Republic of Croatia, he reiterated that the case of the Republic of Slovenia against the Republic of Croatia concerning the application of an EU operating contract for the refusal of the implementation of an arbitral ruling by Croatia before the EU court was the correct decision, since the Republic of Slovenia fulfilled all its obligations in terms of the implementation of the arbitral decision, while the Republic of Croatia, by rejecting the decision, violated both international law and the legal order of the European Union. He stressed that the integration of the countries of the Western Balkans into Euro-Atlantic integration is essential and also in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Its membership will be supported when all the necessary conditions for entry are met. He further replied that preparations for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union had already begun in the second half of 2021. The Minister's candidate reiterated his efforts to strengthen the diplomatic-consular network, in particular by strengthening the number of economic advisers. In doing so, he said that, with a view to attracting responsible, promising, reliable and sustainable investors, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the competent authorities, in particular the Ministry of Economy, would act as its key instigator. He stressed that one of the main objectives of economic diplomacy would be the entry of Slovenian companies into foreign markets, with the target regions being mainly African countries and the countries of South America. In response to a question concerning relations between Palestine and Israel, he argued that the Republic of Slovenia would continue to defend the view that a solution to the Middle East question was needed on the principle of two countries, with the encouragement of both sides to constructive political dialogue necessary. At the end, the Minister's candidate stressed that he would advocate a coherent, firm, transparent foreign policy. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee on Foreign Policy, by 9 votes to none, adopted the opinion that the presentation by Dr Miroslav Cerar as a candidate for the Minister for Foreign Affairs was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u11	Thank you for presenting the report. The Commission's report on relations with Slovenians in place and around the world will be presented by President Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u12	Your Honor, hello! Report on the presentation of Peter Jožef Česnik as a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Peter Jožef Česnik was presented as a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for the field of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. Initially, the candidate for minister presented his current career and career path. During his 36 years in Australia, he was active in the expatriate community in Sydney. Even after returning to Slovenia he worked on the Executive Committee of the Slovenian Emigration Matrix and remains connected to Slovenians around the world today. He is well-acquainted with the problem of eviction because of his long stay abroad. As one of the major problems he highlighted young people's lack of interest and inactiveness in working with their homeland, it is therefore essential to promote their integration and action in society and to learn Slovenian language in order to preserve their Slovenian identity. According to the candidate, the decline in the membership of the Slovenian community has been observed. In its replies to the questions raised by the members and members of the Commission, the Minister's candidate took note of his views, views and opinions and of concrete proposals for action in the individual areas exposed to his future action. In doing so, he stressed, inter alia, the following: the financial constraints on the functioning of the Slovenian Office and will therefore seek to increase the budgetary resources, their prudent use and the faster approval of funds for the implementation of programmes and projects; the administrative obstacles faced by migrants on their return to their homeland, highlighting the nostration of certificates and the central role of the Government, which will have to simplify this process by amending legislation; the importance of close institutional integration at the level of various bodies and institutions, highlighting the cooperation of the Office with the ministries responsible for finance, education, public administration and external affairs; the preference of the idea of a representative of Slovenians worldwide in the National Assembly whose implementation would require a change of the constitution. He has ensured that the personal experience of the Slovenians in exchange and around the world will help to keep it operational. He also expressed his affection for the establishment of a museum of evictions. Following the completion of the presentation of the candidate for Minister and on the questions raised by Members and the replies and comments of the candidate, the Commission adopted the following opinion by 6 votes and 2 against: The presentation of Peter Jožef Česnik as a candidate for a Minister without a department responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u13	Thanks for the introduction. The report of the Defence Committee will be presented by President Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! On 30 August 2018, the President of the Government forwarded to the President of the National Assembly a list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On 6 September 2018, Karl Viktor Erjavec, proposed as Minister of Defence, presented himself to the members and members of the Defence Committee and answered their questions. The proposed candidate for minister initially said that he was running for Minister of Defence with experience since he had already served as Minister of Defence for the period 2004-2008. In his opening remarks, he said that the coalition treaty or agreement stipulated that we would continue to preserve Slovenia as a safe country. Following the presentation, the candidate for minister highlighted how he sees the main problems of the Slovenian Army. Among these, he mentioned human resources malnutrition, inadequate equipment or obsolete equipment and the absence of investments. The main reason for these problems is the lack of funding, as the budget of the Ministry of Defence fell by 42 % between 2010 and 2016. A few decisive steps will have to be taken here, according to the candidate. If we continue to follow these trends now foreseen in the documents, then we see from the medium-term defence programme that in this year we will devote 1% of GDP to defence spending and in 2023 only 1.11% of GDP. The candidate stressed that we could not ensure the objectives we wanted to achieve, so he expressed the conviction that there would be a serious debate in the Defence Committee on how to provide the necessary resources to enable the modernisation and further development of the Slovenian Army. The main cause of the Slovenian Army's human resources sub-nutrition is, according to the candidate, low wages. The salaries of soldiers are lower at the moment than when the candidate served as Minister of Defence in 2004-2008. Regarding the legislation, the candidate pointed out that the Slovenian Army needed its own law. Given the need to adapt the Slovenian Army all the time also to external circumstances, the Slovenian Army would need its law because the defence law is too general and it touches not only the Slovenian Armed Forces but also some other structures. An important system within the Ministry of Defence, according to the candidate, is also a system of protection against natural and other disasters. This system, according to its assessment, works well and in a stable manner. Of course, this system is also nourished. At the end of the move, the candidate expressed the conviction that in the Slovenian Army we have good members of the Slovenian Army, that they are qualified and that they are doing their job well. For this reason, he believes that we must reach political consensus on how to actually achieve the goal that our army will be well equipped, that members of the Slovenian Army will be well trained and that the Slovenian Army will also be respected as it deserves. Finally, the candidate touched on the negative assessment received by the Slovenian Armed Forces by the Commander-in-Chief. In this regard, he said that it was not surprising that the assessment was negative, particularly because we know that it had not been sufficiently invested in the last ten years. A number of questions were raised to the proposed candidate for minister. I think it's almost 80. The candidate answered the questions raised and informed the members of the committee of his views, views and opinions, as well as more concrete proposals for action in the individual areas of the Ministry of Defence's operations. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the committee adopted the following opinion by 8 votes to 6: The presentation of Karl Viktor Erjavac as the candidate for the Minister of Defence was appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u15	Thanks for the introduction. The report of the Health Committee will be presented by Vice-President Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u16	Thank you. On the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers submitted by the President of the Government to the President of the National Assembly on 30 August 2018, Sam Fakin was proposed Minister of Health, who also presented himself to the Health Committee in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 5 September 2018. The proposed candidate for the Minister of Health has divided his presentation of the vision for the future development of the Ministry and the priority programme into two parts. In the first part, he set out among the priorities of his work effective management of the health system, better management of public health institutions, financial stability of health care with new sources of funding and quality measurements in health care. He stressed that the framework for its operation and its work would lead to a coalition treaty, which also listed some laws that would be very difficult in this mandate. In particular, he highlighted the system law on health care and health insurance, more than the required law on long-term care and the law on hospital management. He listed the previously mentioned management of public health establishments and the reduction of waiting periods as short-term advantages. Minister Sam Fakin should be aware that the removal of waiting lines without cooperation with doctors is not possible, so it is impossible to shorten them without cooperation with doctors, so he will advocate intensive negotiations and cooperation with all healthcare stakeholders and, above all, trade unions. The Minister's candidate is convinced that waiting periods for specialist outpatient services may be reduced to 0 or 14 days within one year. Its guidance in operation should first be good for the patient, then for the health system and ultimately for the healthcare worker. With regard to child heart surgery, he believes that it will be necessary to act immediately and to clarify that, despite the status of the candidate for minister, he is already in intensive contact with those involved. In his opinion, the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease is a good basis for the transfer of expertise from abroad, and in the long term it will advocate the establishment of a regional centre in this area and wider integration, for example with Croatia. In his view, it is important to give great emphasis to positive communication in health care and to the use of emotional intelligence, stressing from his point of view that health programmes may fall apart due to poor interrelationships. In his view, voluntary health insurance should be abolished, but the applicant himself did not know where or how the health system was to be obtained by abolishing a voluntary health insurance of around EUR 500 million. An insurance premium of between 15,5 % and 16 % may be raised at the expense of the termination of the supplementary health insurance, with the addition of long-term care financing. The Minister's candidate also stressed in his presentation that he does not intend to abolish hospitals, but it is necessary to check their professional safety and programmes as necessary. It advocates the development of health standards and standards, which must be measured and cannot be the subject of trade union negotiations. In his view, corruption in health care is solely the responsibility of directors of public health institutions and should therefore be provided for as part of their individual contracts. With regard to staffing, he explained that he would only take into account expertise and good results. With regard to the introduction of competition in the field of the implementation of compulsory health insurance, Sam Fakin considers that when introducing competition, insurance companies need to amend the Constitution, since it says that Slovenia is a social state and the state will provide compulsory health insurance. The candidate further answered a number of specific questions from members of the committee, including questions on waiting types, corruption in health care, arrangements for long-term care, management and rationalisation of public health institutions, employment of doctors, specialization, lack of nurses, introduction and measurement of quality in the field of health care, legalisation of cannabis for medical purposes and other questions. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the following opinion with 12 votes in favour and 5 against: Sam Fakin's presentation as a candidate for the Minister of Health was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u17	Thanks for the introduction. The report of the Justice Committee will be presented by President Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u18	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, colleague and colleague, a good day! At the 1st urgent meeting of the Committee on Justice on 6 July 2016. 9. 2018 The candidate for Justice Minister Andreja Katič presented herself. In its opening presentation, the Minister-designate said that a number of measures had been taken in the last mandate to increase the efficiency and transparency of the Slovenian judiciary, by which, following their detailed examination and support of the judicial stakeholders and the professional public, it would continue in the direction of ensuring the rule of law and the rule of law. It will seek to strengthen the authority and responsibilities of the judicial authorities, while respecting the principle of the division of power and the independence of the judiciary, which the legislative and executive branch should support in particular through the preparation and adoption of quality legislation and the provision of appropriate conditions for its functioning. She is also convinced that Slovenian justice is capable of taking responsibility for its activities, with the Minister of Justice not having and should not affect the decisions taken by the courts and the State Prosecutor's Office. The Coalition Treaty provides news on the duration of the judges' mandates, namely a three-year probationary period for new judges and the transfer of judges to the Council of Justice or the President of the Republic. Changes in the legal state examination are also envisaged, which is no longer in line with the complexity of the judicial profession, so that both higher education institutions and judicial authorities will be involved and mentoring will be provided to judges who change the scope of their activities. These measures also aim to improve the quality of the trial, especially the confidence of citizens in Slovenian justice. It also announced the preparation of several legislative proposals to be drawn up in cooperation with the judiciary, other stakeholders and the professional public, highlighting among others the areas of criminal law, integrity and the prevention of corruption, the confiscation of assets of illegal origin and the protection of personal data. It will also advocate a level playing field in the courts, a reasonable trial and a uniformity of judicial and national prosecution practices. In the debate, MEPs and MPs asked a number of questions for the Minister. In doing so, let me point out the following: How to restore the reputation of Slovenian justice and increase confidence in the rule of law? How will the candidate seek to eliminate the risk of abuse of the judicial position? How does it assess the current arrangements for ensuring the public and transparency of judicial proceedings and how to achieve greater transparency of Slovenian justice? What is the opinion on the transfer of judges between lawyers and vice versa? Would it be appropriate to establish specialised courts to act against banking crime? What does he think about the problem of established wills? How does he assess the work of the Council of Justice? What legal changes to the criminal procedure will she advocate and how will she reach the agreement of the judicial stakeholders? The Minister's candidate answered the questions raised. She pointed out that the Slovenian judiciary is an independent branch of government entrusted with an impartial trial without undue delay, with judicial backlogs no longer being a systemic problem. She also said that the judiciary already had a proper reputation among the users of its services, while unfortunately this is not the case in the general public. We must therefore work together to restore the reputation and confidence of Slovenian justice by avoiding the emphasis on general assessments and criticisms, especially through the active functioning of justice itself, as judges and prosecutors themselves must detect unethical and illegal acts and act accordingly. With regard to the abuses of the judicial position, she drew attention to the new broader powers of the Council of Justice in this area and, as a representative of the branch of the executive branch, will respect the principle of the division of power and will not interfere with the functioning of the judiciary, since the Court and the Council of Justice must themselves respond and act on the cases at stake between the judges and the judicial staff. With regard to the establishment of a specialised court or the State Prosecutor's Office for Banking Crime, the Minister's candidate estimates that it is unnecessary because the case is too low and this would have a negative impact on the other courts, according to the applicant. Following the completion of the presentation of the candidate for Minister, the Committee on Justice, by 7 votes to 4, with the opinion that the presentation of Andreja Katič as a candidate for the Minister of Justice was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u19	Thanks for the introduction. The report of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will be presented by President Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u20	Thank the President for his word. Hello, Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Mag. Ksenija Klampfer, proposed as Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, presented on 6 September 2018 and responded to questions raised by members and members of the home committee. In the opening presentation, the candidate thanked her for the opportunity to present herself to the committee and to explain her view of the resource for which management is running. She stressed that she was aware that if she was given an extremely challenging challenge, but she was not afraid of challenges, she could look the problem in the eye. It further clarified its view of the Ministry's core areas of action, covering a wide area – from work to employment, family, social policy and equal opportunities. She stressed that measures must be effective and targeted to ensure social security and justice and to seek to co-form solidarity in society as a whole. It highlighted the key priorities of the Ministry's work in the coming mandate. It's a labor market. In the next two years, it will seek to raise the minimum wage in a dynamic of 4.5% each year. However, a new formula is needed to raise it, which will be subject to conditions in the economy and in the labour market. Success depends largely on constructive social dialogue. It also promised the immediate preparation of a strategy to combat leniency, the regulation of the situation of agency workers, the establishment of a national traineeship scheme and the proper regulation of student work. Family policy area. An important part of the work will be to monitor the implementation of the legislative solutions already adopted and how the objectives pursued are achieved in the practice related to the demographic issue, it is necessary to create conditions to make it easier for young people to have children. Social policy areas. Reducing the general rate of poverty is a priority for every developed society, and a decent life must be guaranteed to all. For this purpose, adequate resources and effective organisations are needed, where greater discretionary rights of employees at social work centres will also contribute, and thus the responsibility to ensure that social assistance goes to those who really need it. Retirement. The current pension system will carry out individual corrections and upgrades established by the Demographic Fund, taking into account the wider social consensus and financial sustainability. It has advocated each work as a principle, for the preparation of an economic migration strategy, for the promotion of the extension of work, for the promotion of the work of pensioners and for the systematic regulation of disability and widow's pensions. Members and members of the Committee asked constructive questions that clearly showed that members of the Committee were familiar with the area. These issues related to the assessment of the management of the staff within the previous mandate to the resources for raising social transfers, the measures to limit the pecuniary nature and timing of this action, the staffing of the Labour Inspectorate, the regulation of national traineeship schemes, measures to activate the long-term unemployed in the labour market, how to restore public confidence in public institutions, the need to separate family policy and social policy, measures to prevent the abuse of social transfers and so on. The candidate answered the questions raised and presented her views and views. She stressed that we must strive for a state that everyone is guaranteed the right to work and fair pay, as set out in the Constitution of Slovenia. All this can be done only in the cooperation of different departments, i.e. through inter-sectoral cooperation and coordination. Following the final presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of 8 votes, 3 against: Presentation of mags. Ksenija Klampfer, a candidate for Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u21	Thank you for your introduction. The report of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government will be presented by President Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u22	Thank you very much, everyone present. The Committee considered the presentations of three candidates. Reports are published. As they are extensive, I will continue to highlight only the key points due to limited time. At its 1st urgent meeting on 4 September, the Committee first considered the presentation of Mr Boštjan Poklukar, the candidate for Minister of Home Affairs. In the opening presentation, the candidate presented his past work and views on the area to be led in the future. He stressed that its primary lead in working at the Ministry of the Interior will provide conditions for the security and property of people. Slovenia believes that Slovenia is facing modern security challenges and therefore it is of fundamental importance primarily to it to manage migration and to fight crime and other security threats. He announced that the Ministry of the Interior would operate within this mandate in accordance with the existing legislation adopted by international commitments, and in particular would strengthen interdepartmental cooperation and take a holistic approach to the problem of migration. He stressed the need to adopt a new national security strategy that will re-evaluate the changed security environment and identify modern security challenges. Technical barriers or fences at the border with Croatia will be removed when the situation allows. It believes that the external borders of the European Union need to be protected more effectively, as there will otherwise be an even greater burden on migration flows at the southern border of Slovenia. He also highlighted the fact that, in order to carry out tasks related to the emergence of mass migration, the police in particular already face serious human resources problems. It believes that the staffing picture of the police is a pressing problem, as police species are also less likely to have a so-called natural outflow. The candidate also intends to pay particular attention to ensuring better conditions to combat the worst forms of organised and economic crime, the more serious forms of crime, in the interests of the financial interests of Slovenia and of the European Union, as well as corruption crimes. The police are also one of the state authorities operating both at local, regional and national level, so it is so important to ensure adequate spatial conditions for its smooth operation. Crime and modern security threats are growing the concept of national borders, so different forms of international strategic, operational and political cooperation are all the more important both within different European integrations and across international space. Finally, he mentioned the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. In the multi-annual debate, the members and members of the committee asked the candidate a number of questions which concerned, in particular, the question whether, as Minister, he would seek to convey to the Commission of the National Intelligence and Security Services the uncensored text of the internal acts of the undercover investigation; the issue of irregular migration; the question whether, as a candidate for a minister, it seemed admissible to him to hang images in the image of former Marshal Tito in the official police premises and whether it seemed appropriate to him that individuals who had publicly threatened public officials were still employed in the police; questions relating to measures that would reduce the administrative burden of employees in the police and the ministry; the concreteisation of activities to promote the most difficult forms of economic crime in the police; the assessment of whether local police were being abused for political purposes; or, in his opinion, the current structure of the Ministry of Finance and the authorities involved in the case of the crime problem could be converted into a case into a criminal problem; the local police authority to abuse for political authority; or, according to the Authority. The candidate answered most of the questions. Some people don't. In most cases, however, he gave general answers to individual questions. He also stated that he was not more aware of the alleged money laundering in the NLB and that the police were independent of the issuance of the Commission's intelligence and security control acts and that there would be no political abuse of the police within his mandate. At the end of the presentation, the Committee adopted the opinion by 10 votes to 7 with the appropriateness of its presentation. At its 1st emergency meeting, the Committee discussed the presentation of Tugomir Kodelje, a candidate for the Minister of Public Administration, who, after a personal presentation, presented himself with basic programming points or views on the field of public administration. He pointed out that the basic guide would make the public administration more efficient, more flexible, not in terms of reduction, but in terms of greater quality. The basis is the adoption of better regulations, the information society, cited the difficulties in establishing different records, mentioned the possibility of accessing via one click for both authorities and individuals, highlighted the provision of better coverage to broadband networks, stressed the importance of excellence in terms of targeted management, the common public procurement system, ensuring the resolution of problems arising from subcontractors' payments, maintaining sustainable levels of funding, in particular in terms of the elimination of wage imbalances and more efficient management of real state property. He noted that the area of local self-government was important and that its funding needed to be better regulated. Here, too, in a multi-year debate, members asked the candidate a number of questions relating mainly to the regulation of wage imbalances and the renewal of the single system of wages, to increasing the number of employees in the public sector, to the responsibility of employees, to the financing of municipal tasks, to the establishment of landscapes, to the obligation to introduce a participatory budget into all municipalities in accordance with local communities, to uneven regional development, to the abolition of the State Council, to NGOs, to the importance of their cooperation with the public administration and to the problem of the use of funds for their operation and to the remaining number of issues. In this case, the candidate also answered some questions in a general way, in a more specific way. In the public sector, he stressed the need to ensure quality, not quantity, that we do not need more people, but more competent people, but that the professions where we need replacements are highlighted by the military and the police. Regarding the uneven regional development and possible preference of Ljubljana, which has been raised in one of the issues, he said that we should not neglect other areas, but that Ljubljana is still the capital and should take care of its reputation. After 10 votes in favour and 5 against, the Committee adopted the opinion on the appropriateness of the presentation of Tugomir Kodelje as a candidate for the Minister of Public Administration. A day later, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec announced the withdrawal of this candidacy, which he also did two days after the Committee's meeting and submitted a proposal for a new nomination for the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Rudi Medved, who presented himself to the Committee at its 2nd emergency meeting on 10 September. In his opening presentation, he took up his professional career, his experience and moved on to the priorities and vision of managing the Ministry. In the introduction, he highlighted often the wrong opinion, which was formed in society, that the public sector is too large and, as a result, is a burden on Slovenian society. He stressed that during the crisis he was carrying a heavy burden. He noted that average wage growth in the public sector is lagging behind private sector growth. He mentioned the problem of the number of regulations that have grown to around 850 laws and 20,000 regulations. This is why he announced the introduction of a rule counter. As an important measure in improving public sector services, it highlighted the digitisation of services. With regard to employees, he stressed the importance of their competence or competence. With regard to salaries, he pointed out that the single salary system was introduced with the aim of transparency, transparency, comparability and wage management. He announced the creation of a special group to be held in negotiations with trade unions from the government side. The aim of this group is to negotiate with all trade unions together. In the field of local self-government, he mentioned that at the normative level, the system rules have been amended and the municipalities see the problem in particular of financing. He also highlighted the provisions of the Coalition Treaty on the abolition or renewal of the functioning of the State Council and the provision concerning the establishment of the provinces, of course with an appropriate political prior consensus. In the multi-annual debate, the members and members of the committee also asked the candidate a number of questions, which concerned, in particular, the Law on Electronic Communications, which is unconstitutional and must be aligned with the decision of the Constitutional Court. He announced an immediate approach to the amendment. The issue of the neutrality of the Internet, freedom of speech, hate speech, overriding, debirocratisation was further raised and the related emphasis on the efficiency of the public sector. Measures to provide public administration as a service, dialogue of ministries with non-governmental organisations, efficiency of the work of public servants, responsibility, anomalies in the pay system, strengthening of local self-government, mandatory introduction of a participatory budget, public procurement, sharing economy, Uber problems and the like, possible formation of the status of the State Council and a number of other issues have been highlighted. In this case, too, the candidate answered certain questions specifically, some in general, some not. Following the conclusion, the Committee adopted the opinion by 9 votes in favour and 4 against it on the appropriateness of the presentation of Rudi Medved as a candidate for the Minister of Public Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u23	Thank you for your introduction. The report of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth will be presented by the president of mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u24	Thank you. Respectable to both presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Dr Jernej Pikalo is proposed as Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Initially, he presented to the members and members of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth his past work and views on the area to be led in the future. As a higher education teacher, he is on the one hand a co-creator of public education and, on the other hand, as a father of compulsory children, as he says, his enthusiastic user. He highlighted three key documents that would expire in this mandate. These are: the White Paper on Education and Education 2011, the National Programme for the Development of Higher Education and the Slovenian Research and Innovation Strategy, in force until 2020. He also stressed the importance of the National Programme for Sport and the National Programme for Youth. During the presentation of his visions, he identified the following priorities: to ensure stable funding for education and education at the level of 6% of gross social product; to enable a more efficient system of inclusive educational environments for all; to establish a free kindergarten programme; to provide a stable network of institutions in the field of adult education and to provide conditions for the implementation of programmes in the framework of lifelong education; to limit the administrative costs of education and study; to introduce free compulsory textbooks in the first triad; to provide free Slovenian education for all immigrants; to provide stable and development-oriented financing for sport; to increase the resources for sport infrastructure and sport, evenly distributed throughout Slovenia; to create a more favourable tax environment for investing in sport; to increase the movement of children and young people at all levels of education; and to implement consistently the uniform national colour of national representative equipment. The two-hour debate also addressed the following topics: quality and accessible public education system; financing of private education; university laws, higher education, research activities, guidance of children with special needs, gambling; functioning of the Education Institute; strengthening of educational and educational centres; cooperation with the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and the role of the Sport Foundation; review of decisions for children with special needs; careers and their implementation in the curriculum; entrepreneurship in the school system and the integration of education and economics; national enterprise scheme; inclusion of civic education in the educational system; termination of paper work links; deficit of teachers of science and technology; education, nationality, hyperproduction of excellence and introduction of external examination of knowledge, academic qualifications and problems. In response, the Minister's candidate has identified his views and has also made more concrete proposals for action in specific areas of the ministry responsible. After the presentation, the Committee adopted the opinion by 9 votes in favour, 4 against that the presentation by Dr Jernej Pikal as a candidate for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much for your introduction. The reports of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be presented by President Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u26	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed candidate for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec, was presented to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food at its first urgent meeting on 4 September 2018. In her presentation, the proposed candidate for the Minister presented a vision for the future development of the Ministry and a programme of policy priorities that fall within the competence of the Ministry of State, including: firstly, the provision of safe food, secondly, the response to climate change and the preparation of the basis for the use of European funds in the future financial period. The presentation was followed by specific questions from members and members of the Committee. They were particularly interested in whether the applicant agreed to all the proposed measures and the envisaged objectives set out in the Coalition Treaty on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in which she had not participated in the preparation of which she did not participate, and whether she undertook to implement the programme, but not only to support it; how it would promote the conservation of livestock and wine production in areas with more difficult production conditions; what its position on the prohibition of euthanization of healthy animals in shelters and what type of financing for abandoned animals is planned; what its position on the use of glyphosate is; whether Slovenia itself would prohibit its use without the previous period and what position it will take on the level of the European Union; how the candidate would effectively address the poverty of the farm and the farming population, and whether it supports the re-introduction of state pensions and the way of granting safe additives; what the applicant would take on this subject to the level of the European Union; how, by way, by way, by way, by way, a more effectively, the applicant, the problem, the poorered by the farm and by the farmers would be able to adapt to the farm for the farm or by the farm to the farmers; how to the re-ingrants; how to the re-inheritation of the re-inhership of the introduction of abishing of abendering of abendering of ab. Most of the questions are related to the operation of the Slovenian National Forest Company. The members of the Committee raised questions regarding the non-compliance with the company's statutory objectives, in particular the exposure of forest wood chains and the sale of timber to resellers, the outsourcing of basic logging activities and the collection of timber to private suppliers, with the only criterion so far for carrying out the activity being the lowest price, the hiring of external operators to carry out the basic activity becoming a constant practice, suspectedly suspicious recruitment, from recruitment to client affiliation to nepotism. With regard to the above, the members and members were interested in how the applicant would ensure the transparent functioning of the Slovenian National Forest company and whether the Court of Auditors agreed to carry out an audit of the company’s operations. The question was also whether the director of the Slovenian State Forests, a party colleague of the candidate company, was actually a suitable person to run this company, with what measures he intended to force the company, that is, the Slovenian State Forests, to build forest and forest chains, or whether the members of the professional council of this company should be paid for their activities. Furthermore, the question was raised as to how far the candidate plans to increase the mandatory percentage of wood in public procurement for the construction of public buildings in particular. Given that the candidate plans to reform the current forest law with the aim of improving forest management and management, while stressing in the debate that Slovenia has one of the better forest systems in the world, the question was raised as to what the candidate believes the weakness of the law and what it intends to change in the law in order to eliminate these weaknesses. The proposed candidate for Minister gave answers to most of the questions raised. After the presentation had been concluded, the Committee, with 10 votes in favour and 6 against, decided that the presentation of Dr Aleksandra Pivec as a candidate for the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u27	Your Honor, thank you for the introduction. The Committee on the Economy's report will be presented by President Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I will present the presentation report of Zdravko Restovalska as the candidate for Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Mr Zdravko Restovalšek, as candidate for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, gave a presentation on 6 September 2018 to the members and members of the Committee on Economic Affairs and answered their questions. At the beginning of the opening presentation, the candidate presented some macroeconomic indicators and their progress during the 2014-2018 mandate and the Ministry's actions carried out in time under his leadership. He highlighted the decline in the number of unemployed persons, the increase in gross minimum wage and net average wages, the consolidation of the gross debt of the country and the growth of gross domestic product per capita. In particular, he stressed the importance of exports to the Slovenian economy and drew attention to the growth of foreign direct investment and their importance for the growth of gross domestic product. Regarding further measures, the candidate said that he would strive not to reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. All measures should be predictable and thus enable the economy to adapt to them in a timely manner. Furthermore, as the basis of the market economy, the candidate highlighted the competition rule, presented the area of investment promotion, highlighted the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises for our economy. In the second part of his presentation, he presented in detail the state of tourism and the achievements of the previous mandate in this area. He also highlighted his views on the ownership consolidation of Slovenian tourism. At the end of his introductory presentation, he reiterated key priorities and objectives. Allow me to list them: maintaining a competitive business environment; drawing on European funds; managing state assets successfully; increasing exports; increasing the added value of the employee; and raising the gross average wage to the employee. In the debate that followed, the members and members of the committee highlighted some important issues from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's work area and asked the candidate a number of questions, to which the candidate answered comprehensively and thoroughly. This highlights the answers that have touched on the implementation of the requirements of the Coalition Treaty and any further envisaged measures within its framework. The candidate stressed that commitments will be financed within the framework of fiscal sustainability and economic growth, and in the context of dialogue with stakeholders, while the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and the business environment will not deteriorate. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted, with 11 votes in favour and no votes against, the opinion that the presentation of Zdravka Počvalška as a candidate for the Minister for Economic Development and Technology was appropriate. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u29	Your Honor, thank you for the introduction. The last report of the Committee on Culture will be presented by President Violet Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say hello to my colleagues and colleagues. Culture last presented, but one of the most important. Mr Prešiček, proposed as Minister of Culture, presented and answered questions to members and members of the Committee on Culture, in accordance with Article 112 of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230, first and second paragraphs of the Rules of Procedure. In the opening presentation, the candidate first presented his previous artistic participation and work experience. Then he gave the members and members of the committee his view of the cultural situation in Slovenia and highlighted the need for a new start and for putting culture at the centre of public interest. He stressed the need to improve the organisational scheme that allows cultural goods to be created and to halt the decline in public funds for culture. The main objective of changing the current situation is to gradually increase the budgetary resources for culture. By 2020, 0.5 GDP was to be allocated to culture, thus reaching the culture target in 2009. Among other things, it advocates the development of a new national programme for culture and the adoption of a cultural euro law. He highlighted the need to redefined cultural inclusion in the country's development strategies, or to link culture to the economy, tourism and other segments of Slovenian society. The Minister's candidate has focused his priorities on the positioning of art in Slovenian society, the increase of the budget for culture, the establishment of dialogue with all participants in culture, the regulation of the status of self-employed and non-governmental organisations in culture, the decentralisation of culture, the debarcation and the reform of tendering conditions, the preparation of covering documents in the field of culture, the preparation of a long-term plan to co-finance new investments in cultural infrastructure, the care of Slovenian language, the regulation of the position of the book and its importance for society, the renewal of media legislation, the regulation of the position of visual arts, the further digitisation of Slovenian film, dance and music heritage, the regulation of the position of the specificity of dance art, the care of film production in Slovenia and the greater importance of cultural diplomacy. Following the presentation of the minister's candidate, debates and debaters wanted more detailed answers to such questions as: regulation of the situation of the non-governmental sector in culture, the issue of cross-cutting workers and self-employed in culture, the issue of hate speech in media discourse, the dynamics of the growth of cultural resources and to which they will be addressed, the regulation of transfer of 3% for radio stations of particular importance, the regulation of the status of ballet players, the regulation of the status of the festival of Borštnik's meeting, the issue of the acquired working age of artists abroad, the establishment of comparable financing of cultural institutions in Slovenia, measures to ensure the plurality of the cultural heritage, the economy and tourism, the renewal of media law, the suppression of the movable cultural heritage, the support of young artists, the establishment of comparable financing of cultural institutions in Slovenia, measures to ensure the plurality of the media heritage area, the NUK 2 project, the support of the zero level of VAT for the cultural heritage, the support of Slovenia's cultural landscape, the adoption of the country's cultural affairs, the role of Slovenia's cultural landscape. The presentation was concluded by the poet Cyril Zlóbc to advocate that there will be as few policies as possible in culture and in politics as possible. At the end of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted, by 12 votes to one, that the presentation of Dejan Prešič as Minister of Culture was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u31	Your Honor, thank you for your introduction. We have thus completed the reports of the competent committees and are moving on to the presentations on the positions of the groups. First of all, the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Mr Felice Žiža, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u32	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, colleague, colleague, candidate and candidate! Egregio Presidente della Camera di Stato, egregio Presidente del Governo, un cordiale saluto a tutti! Tisztelt Hölgyim és Uraim! In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, we believe that the priorities of the new government must be to continue with economic growth measures, transparent and efficient management of state assets, sustainability of public finances, effective functioning of the rule of law and the provision of a social and fair state especially to the most vulnerable social groups. In our parliamentary group, we want the new government to begin its work immediately. We predict that we are prepared to participate in every good project and to make good decisions and laws. Otherwise, the Member of the Italian and Hungarian national communities will be specifically and objectively alerted to mistakes and problems. We have high expectations that the new government will fully and effectively implement the protection of indigenous national communities. In this area, the former Government has laid the foundations for the economic foundations of these national communities by providing funds under the law on the promotion of coherent and regional development. It reduced the gap between the regulatory regulation and the implementation of the provisions on the public use of Italian and Hungarian language in the national mixed areas of the municipalities by means of a plan of measures taken by the Government to implement the rules on bilinguality 2015-2018, upgraded the provisions of the Law on the Personal Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the field of education and education and continued its investment in education and education. It is therefore important for the new government to continue its activities in these and all other areas of the protection of indigenous national communities. It must endeavour to address the existing gap between the regulatory arrangements and the implementation of provisions on the protection of indigenous national communities, in the practice of the upgrading of legal acts, the preparation of sectoral and systemic policies, adequate budgetary financing, with the care of human resources, the promotion of linguistic and cultural identities, cultural heritage, history and practices of indigenous national communities. With a comprehensive and effective system of control over the implementation of legal acts, systemic policies and financing in this area, with the coordinated functioning of the Government in the implementation of the protection of indigenous national communities. A very important and challenging task will be to draw up a list of the comprehensive cultural heritage of both indigenous national communities, which has already been supported by a candidate for a Culture Minister. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the functioning of the Office of the Government for Nationality should be optimised. In addition to coordinating the work of the competent ministries in specific areas of the protection of indigenous national communities, it must also carry out an important task in the field of expertise, enforcement and integration. To a large extent, the effectiveness of the government in this area will also depend on the success of its operation. On the basis of this, Mr. Ference Horvath and I will support the new government. We have important and responsible work ahead of us and constructive cooperation. The Italian and Hungarian national communities will be able to contribute to a better common future for Slovenia. We wish the new government great happiness and success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u33	Your Honor, thank you for the introduction. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u34	Dear Mr President of the Government, the distinguished Mr Coordinator of the Government, who I do not see, is a respected colleague and colleague! The greeting is also intended for all those who are not present in this Chamber today, but they have had a key word in the composition of this government, which we will make formal decisions today. However, I believe that these developments are being closely monitored today, so this greeting applies to them too. Before I say something in a substantive sense about what the candidates and the candidates have said about this government in these presentations and what is enshrined in the coalition treaty, perhaps a few words at the beginning of the sedition that we have witnessed in the last days, when some of the presidents of the government explain how they have drawn up this government because I did not want to take up the mandate or because I did not hope for it. I invited all the parties to discuss whether it was possible to form a coalition. And from the customers who are proposing this government today, I just got negative answers. Even from the president of that party who now says he might be talking. We talked, and he told me that he would try to form a coalition with a second vote, but if that doesn't work, maybe we can talk. And such answers, even written ones, I can show them to you, have also come from all the other customers of this six, except from the List of Mr Marjan Šarc, where, although I do not know how this is in accordance with political culture, we have not received an answer. Most of these answers were such that they negotiate in another coalition, if they fail, they are willing to negotiate about others. Obviously, these negotiations have been successful in one way or another, as far as the state will have it, we will see. And today we are just ahead of this second step, in the formal vote on the government. There is no particular excitement about this, not in the public, except in one part, in the mainstream media this is the third or fourth news in the last days, everything else is at the forefront, partly because of the reasons that I will talk about later, and partly because there is something going on ahead of us that we already know, some other half-time of some event. In front of us is a recycling of what we've been monitoring for the past four years, more or less, it doesn't really upset anyone too much, except for one part. If we go to the content, we see that what is enshrined in the coalition contract is to a large extent a routine. Any government in these times would represent a programme or a sectoral programme in specific areas, but would write some things that are obvious. If we voted on individual sentences, our Group would probably also support 80% of what is written down. And that would not be significantly different if any other government were to put this together. What is concerned about what has been presented in the hearings and what is enshrined in this coalition contract is the spices added to these texts or to this food, and what is not, it is said, manka, what is not, but what should be, given the time we live and what the time is ahead of us. But if you want some proof of recycling, compare what is written in this coalition contract on health with what was written in the coalition contract in 2014. Despite the fact that the party that ran the government so far claimed at these pre-election meetings that four-fifths of what they have set out have been realized, four reform laws of five and so forth are now found in the coalition contract exactly the same sentences. I mean, it's very interesting how this is going to happen again, what's already been done. Similar recycling can be found elsewhere. What was concerned and why much of the Slovenian public was on their feet was then tried to hide behind the smoke curtain from Šiška to various innovations to redirect public opinion, but this spice. In this spice we see some famous philosophy of evil, which is 170 years old, stems from a document that says that it will be possible to create an ideal society where we will all be equal, by breaking up a nation, family, religion, private property and private education. And from these additions to the Coalition Treaty these objectives are precisely cut down and are also exactly the same. Also in that 170-year-old document, it says it's going to be a man's liberation. Approximately the same phrases are used here in these spices. Older Slovenians say: "When we heard a Commissioner talking about freeing us, we began to hide property and write wills." That's what people care about. This is what encouraged greater resistance in the Slovenian economy, among the most creative work of the nation, but rather just a sentence about higher taxes. Because people have a memory, and if you go through the Slovenian countryside, you will meet people who say: “We have not yet been returned to us by those few hectares that were taken away from us after World War II, but we are already reading about nationalisation.” Of course, as someone also wrote, one of the Members sitting here today will not be able to do so overnight, not even in one term, but it is important that we take a few steps. And in these spices, some of these first steps are seen and recognized by a large part of the public. I am firmly convinced that not a lot of those who will make up this coalition and decide there, but many of you who are in these parties and who are sitting here today, do not support it. However, it worries the large part that supports this, and I fear that, given the responses that we have been able to monitor in recent weeks, it is already close to the majority, not in this House, but in the government coalition itself. Given the time ahead, the key issue is that we are pretending that you have signed this seriously and for serious purposes. While we have been in some doubts the last few days when representatives of government parties spoke, let's wait for the government to be, because we have signed something, but not taking it so seriously The economy is calm: No soup is eaten as hot as it is cooked. [[…]] So the question that was in place is: Is what the candidates and the candidates for the government said at the presentations true or not true? Is what you wrote in a coalition contract and protocol or in a co-operation agreement with a superior party true or not true? Is this some kind of public record, where you can always say, I'm gonna take something, I'm not gonna do anything if someone criticises something, because I'm not gonna do it? Is this serious? Based on the answer, it's not serious, but it's impossible to discuss, because then everything is arbitrary and unapplicable and I can go right down behind this pay phone, so we're pretending that what you wrote is serious. And as we have already said, it is likely that what is not written is also meant, that we do not realize it, that we do not intend to do it, or that we do not feel that it is necessary to do it. There's a lot of that. I'd only mention four key things. See, Slovenia has the ninth oldest population in the world, not in Europe, in the world, and demography is our strategic problem. If you read the coalition contract, you see here that we only touch it in two places. One city is where we talk about pensions and where we are already getting married, czech, Slovenia is getting old, we will grow old, there will be fewer of us, so reforms need to be carried out, raise the age limit for pensions, etc. I don't know if it's the only solution, but in the long run it's a bad-bad situation, because one day it'll be over. People can't work until the hundredth year according to biological design. What is lacking is that we improve this demographic image naturally. Here is a couple of sentences in family politics, because everything is focused on the need to expand the concept of family and consider everything alive as a family. And it is written about migration – and this is where there is a big question about all of this – that the government will draw up a migration strategy. Not like, no how, no what, I don't know, it'll obviously be waiting for Europe here. So the answer to one of the key strategic problems of Slovenia, the country, society, if you want, is not in this coalition contract. Another such mannequin is dealing with one of the key problems that is not only an economic problem and, I will say, a more entrepreneurial part of the nation, but every citizen and citizen, it is bureaucracy. In our previous mandate, we had a very resounding meeting on our initiative, where we talked about reducing bureaucratic barriers. For the first time, some shocking statistics were also made publicly available, showing that more than 20,000 laws and other regulations are in force in this country at national level. There's no lawyer, no genius in this bureaucrat swamp. Before the elections, the Prime Minister spoke much about the need to reduce these swamps. In the coalition contract, look, there's nothing like that. There you will find statements on eGovernment, on procedures that will simplify the life and economy of citizens who are already running. Let someone read that again, some of these things are happening today, if you go to an administrative unit, you don't have to reintroduce them. But the problem is choking people with these rules. Here in the coalition agreement, contrary to what has been said in the campaign itself, there is no ambition to at least deal with this problem, which has grown in some way over the past four years. There is no obligation to eliminate unnecessary regulations. Even earlier in this, I will say, a historical brief presentation by the President of the Government spoke about how this is a problem and so on, but in the coalition agreement, there is no awareness of this problem. And here I'm going to say from my own experience, I can say that this is an extremely difficult effort for every government, an extremely difficult goal, even in our government we were only partially successful with this, at least it didn't spread. Reducing government bureaucracy means the same thing as driving a car to repair a car while driving. It is extremely difficult, sometimes impossible, but especially dangerous. But if the ambition is not to do something here, at least so that the problem does not increase, look, then, as someone said, get rid of whoever can out of this bureaucratic hell. The third manca, which is probably the most out of this document, if read seriously, is some aimlessness, some sectoral action by the departments and so on. In order for the coalition to present a vision of what Slovenia is like after four years of this mandate, we do not find a phrase in this direction. And I don't know if every coalition is going to set up a program for four years, but now we've had three early elections, and we're going to have a quarter of them, but still, in ambitions, we should have a timeline. [[…]] During these four years, Slovenia will also lead the European Union or the Council of the European Union. There's a single sentence on this in the coalition contract. It says we'll get ready for this. No priorities. This is an opportunity for the country, especially if it already has some experience, if it does it another time, but you can take this opportunity if you prepare yourself for it. We have been preparing for that first presidency since December 2004 for the first half of 2008, and it has been difficult. There is no ambition here, it is taken as an obligation, not an opportunity. I must say that before you get through the European procedure a certain thing and then you want to put the crown of success right at the time of the presidency, when it is also noticeable, and even when it is easier to get something completely over, it is time to start years and years earlier. It's the one you're going to be in this recycled government with experience from before that you know exactly that. If we simply ask a question here, perhaps the Prime Minister of the Government will answer it in conclusion: How does this coalition, which today wants to get the main tool for the implementation of its programme, represent Slovenia after four years? We have not heard this answer so far, I hope we will hear it today. And the fourth observable manca at first sight is the perfect unselfishness of dealing with systemic corruption, which is a problem in Slovenia, as is rarely the case in any country, especially in three segments: banks, mainstream media, repressive authorities. We can talk about this a lot, a little bit more below. In the presentations of candidates and candidates for ministerial posts and in the coalition contract there are also many contradictions. From the fact that some candidates have said that they are not interested in much of what the coalition contract says, that others have presented things that are not there or have presented them differently than in the coalition contract, to some of the matters that appear to be in the eyes. For example, in the coalition contract and in this protocol signed with a supercoal client, the commitment is to increase the availability of housing on the market, especially for young people, the availability of rental apartments and so on. At the same time, there is a commitment in the Coalition Treaty to tax capital pensions and so on. Thus, whoever rents the apartment will be subject to additional taxation, this will probably not increase the number of renters' apartments on the market, but especially those who will be renting the tax, and especially young and young families will have to pay more for these apartments. This will increase the availability of apartments. Then there is much controversy in the field of foreign policy. There is talk of a balanced foreign policy. This in practice means that he thinks the Foreign Minister will go to Moscow once and once in Washington, or I don't know what. The former Foreign Minister went to Moscow 13 times and never to Washington. That is to say, it would have been a great advance if we'd gotten this balance. Slovenia is a member of the European Union, a member of the core part of the European Union, because we are in the Schengen area and in the euro area and are a member of NATO. We are not members of the Customs Union with Russia, Kazakhstan, Armenia and some other countries, we are not members of this Schengen Protocol with Russia, China and Mongolia, which now have the largest military exercises since 1981. So, this is little, as I would say, contrary to everything that is written in the foreign policy or security strategies that this country has. This is particularly in conflict with ambition, which is also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, that Slovenia must remain at the core of these links, in the core of the European Union. I'm sorry, it just doesn't work out. If Slovenian journalists do not see this and do not question it, this coalition contract is, however, because it is the only thing that is tangible in relation to the announcement of what Slovenia will be like under this government, what kind of partner will be in the alliances and so on, these things, especially this part of foreign policy, are the foreign diplomatic representations, it goes to the addresses of those who follow the events in Slovenia in other countries, and the matter will have its consequences. So it's not just a whim, but in the end, when it comes to many things, it hurts the state. Then he screams there after the studios, why this country and another country or this and another commission did not support us in some dispute with the neighbouring country and so on. I don't know why a country that pays 4% of GDP for our security in NATO would support a Member State that writes in its programme to lead a balanced foreign policy, the same as Moscow, the same as the West. Some things are taken seriously where at least we're about to be considered a serious country. While this is irrelevant to the outside world, it is fun for us to read your documents and protocols, it says “We have gained the majority trust of the electorate together” and then writes: “and now we are forming a minority government.” [[…]] The one who gets the majority trust of the electorate doesn't have to make up a minority government, so something here just isn't right. Of course, you don't make up a minority government, you make up a government of six parties, where one party has a special status, only this status isn't oppositional, it's super-coalcial. If you don't believe me, I'll read you what you wrote in this agreement. I believe that this coalition contract has also been read by representatives of various associations, interest, age and others in Slovenian society, and that many have wondered what it means. Earlier in this historic brief introduction, the President of the Government said he did not want to be specific. This ambition is also very much present in this key strategic document of this coalition, practically in all areas. For example, I believe that all disabled associations have read this coalition contract with interest. This coalition contract states that it opposes the deception of people with phrases. A few pages go on with the disabled, “we will settle the status of the disabled”. [[…]] Great, but every disabled person wants to know how. We're going to fix the status of the disabled, we're going to America -- okay, amp, that's not enough. It's full of it, but I've quoted it because it's written in those introductory parts, how it manipulates people by selling them phrases. In the beginning, I also called on those who helped with the composition of this government, but they are not here today. I am thinking, of course, of the influence of the various lobbying in the background, which have been very active, so that such a structure of the six parties is established and proposed by the government. There's a lot of them. I'll just count four. The most active, we also know why, was the lobby or, we will say, a network of people that allowed Iran to wash billions of euros of black money in Slovenia for various, including terrorist and other purposes. This lobby, I think it's a lobby or some network, has managed to get people directly into the tops of this coalition. The second such influential lobby of very influential people in Slovenia was the connection of people who wanted to make money with speculation in the issuance of various subordinate bonds, and then not ours, but the government of Mrs Bratuškova cut it down when we repaired the Slovenian banks. In the previous term, the previous government tried to get through a law that got stuck because we demanded that these people expose themselves because they are now hidden behind some accounts in Luxembourg. Since the elections were too close, of course, they did not want to reveal themselves, they circulated different lists of these influential people, and the law was withdrawn. Now it will be ready again and a few days ago we were able to read in Bloomberg what is the plan for these millions, hundreds of millions somehow to be cashed back, and in the first place is of course now the battle for who will be the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. The favourite that virtually all government parties have supported in the talks, except one or two, with the President of the country, is the favorite that currently has the most potential, I will say, the direct product of this lobby. A great interest, more than 100 million-dollar interest in bringing this coalition together. The third lobby that's been very helpful here is the building lobby. If you read the coalition contract, what do you think is the only economic sector that is defined as strategic in your coalition contract? It's just construction. In the previous term, we have been monitoring the rise of this building lobby, which the crisis has cut around the second track saga, but now these ambitions have grown into the most strategic sector for the Slovenian economy. No other thing, no other economic sector is defined as strategic, just construction, which is important, but it is not a matter of survival of the Slovenian economy. And this was recorded at the same time as part of the coalition is actually pushing high-tech companies with required foreign markets out of the country and they are being intimidated in one way or another, and they are threatened by new taxes and by comparison with tax evasion. Construction is a strategic sector. Here is the health-purchase lobby, which was able to recapture its man at the head of the health department, it was very interesting to listen to his presentation, because he completely turned the board, we listened to him earlier when he was at the head of the insurance company, how much money was sufficient, just should be used, but now suddenly the money is not enough and it will still have to be obtained, only to avoid the price of some health care products that were substantially more expensive than abroad. So there's gonna be a lot of fun here. As we said at the beginning, the events of the last days were, in contrast to any comparison with any similar time in any other country where the government is formed, everything in Slovenia marked anything other than the composition of this team, which you will formally confirm today. Most of that time it was not the first news, and the first news was Mr Šisko's arrest and the release from custody again because of a masquerade that has been in existence for a year and a half, but it has been discovered right now that this is a big news that covers up some of the things that I have previously been talking about, which would otherwise become obvious. Well, in these days, it is also like a bomb — perhaps for that reason, but I doubt it — that the Supreme Court’s decision in the Novič case has been echoed. The man was three and a half years and more innocent in prison, and now it's clear that everything was broken alive. I mention this because you wrote in this coalition contract at the beginning that the coalition will fight against a culture of intimidation. You know an even worse way of being intimidated than by being convicted without any evidence, in the face of the harsh statements of the first man of this specialized police, of a low-intention killer, and so on and so forth, and in spite of the obvious violations, this procedure is being abused, and after three and a half years it is found that everything was wrong, and what was already obvious to everyone who followed it. Do you know any worse kind of intimidation than that? Maybe the Huda Cave. That's what he's been waving at lately. I appeal to this coalition to fight this intimidation. Although what is written in the police chapter, the judiciary and so on in the coalition treaty, this does not work out, it follows from the outset that all of this will continue. Finally, given that the President of the Government has been very general before, there may be some general things about the mandate ahead of us, the coalition, the coalition treaty and what we can expect. I took some time and read the coalition contract in great detail and also these protocols, the agreement with Levica. And here I ask the President of the Government and all the others I believe you haven't read this: Has anyone calculated how much time you're going to spend on all this coordination? In this Protocol, the coalition agreement provides for one highly complex coordination procedure for the formulation of some proposals, it is said before the matter comes into formal procedure at all. Then you have additional coordination provided for by the Supercoal Party of the Left. But there's no time stamps. Calculate how many months you will spend in order to get a partner project, as you call it, into the process at all. The coalition of six parties, I will say, my condolences, Mr Sarec, is in itself a nightmare, which you will soon see, with this cover that you have put here in the sense of all this coordination, and this will not drink water. And this is what I am saying as a citizen of this country, because this government will still have to make some decisions that we all hope will be good and you will also get our support. Only if you're going to run this through these, I'd say, channels, we'll all get old before you take any action. Well, why am I talking about one of the parties here being defined as supercoal? Look, you've written some things down in this protocol or agreement that prove it. Now this party claims to be the opposition. I mean, because, you know, there's that old saying, if an animal barks like a dog, bites like a dog, walks like a dog, and waving like a tail like a dog, there's a theoretical possibility that it's not a dog, but it usually turns out that's a dog. Now, if a party says that it will support the President of the Government, the budget, provide an absolute majority in the working bodies of the National Assembly, it will not support interpretations and so on, this party may otherwise claim to be the opposition, but probably not. She's not a coalition party either, and I agree with that. This is the super-coaliciary party which has secured this status in this agreement, where it states, okay, first of all the obligation, "the party of the Left is bound by the coalition contract just like the parties who form the minority government." [[…]] Of course, this coalition contract, which you have signed, also binds the party to the Left, although there was no party to this treaty. But before this treaty was signed, which is also unprecedented, you signed an agreement with her, where this party undertakes to respect the coalition contract. So, I don't know what the other one is, then? Well, and then in Article 6, you wrote: "Coordination decision takes place by consensus, with signatories being equal, regardless of the number of Members and Members of the National Assembly, and decisions shall be taken by consensus." [[…]] I'll say it's a distinct super-cooperational status. Then you have in agreement paragraphs 10 and 11, which, in my humble opinion, is contrary to the Government Act, because here this coordination imposes something on the government, and so on, which must work according to the Constitution and the Government Act, but you will clear that up. What they are saying is that the special status of the supra-coaliciary party is then Article 13, which states: “The Members of the parties, the signatories to this Agreement, the meetings of the working bodies and the meetings of the National Assembly support the proposals of the laws, the proposals of other acts, the proposals of the amendments and the human resources proposals and provide an absolute majority in the votes.” Then you have Article 15, which obliges Members to ensure the quorum and presence at the meetings of working bodies. Well, and then you have this sentence, which determines the supra-cooperational status of one party, where it says: “In exceptional cases where it is not possible for any of the members of the coalition to attend a meeting of the National Assembly and not even find a replacement, the coalition representative must inform the Left Group.” So we know who he's answering to. Well, then you have the final act, article 21, which states: “If there is a breach of the provisions of this Agreement by any signatory, the President of the Government and the Coordinator of the Left shall be informed.” Not the presidents of the other parties or the signatories, it is said, only the President of the Government and the coordinator of the Left are the two who operate here. This may be the case in general. For the first time today, a government will be elected after an election, headed by a party with 10 per cent or less in public opinion. Governance is an exhausting business, and usually this support starts to slow down. But so far, the government has been made up of parties or leaders of parties that began when the government swore with greater public support than they received in the elections. This is the first time it's not like this. There may be some magic sticks in someone's pocket to turn these trends miraculously, but so far it doesn't show anything, despite these smoke curtains and the strong help of the central media. One TV company even published a contribution in this sense: whether a lack of experience to manage or participate in government is an advantage or a weakness. If this is an advantage, or if this is a dilemma, I don't know why, when you're publishing invitations for official posts, why you're demanding five years of experience, ten years of leadership experience and so on, if that can be an advantage. Draw that. Of course, this will never happen in the economy. Let me get this straight. Of course, we will not support this government. I must be honest to say that at these hearings we have observed some sincere intentions in the candidates and candidates to do something about this, they will have our support. But if we draw the line below this, it's pretty neat, and at least on four points, it's very customeristic. If this breach of the lobby into the executive branch has not been achieved with the agreement of the President of the Government, he will have a headache, otherwise everything will be fine for a while. I kind of feel like we're just following up on some recycling effort with spice that's gonna make it all worse. And it seems to me that we will be listening to this stability mantra again in the future, as we have done in the last four years, when the President of the previous government has declared the success of his team crucial that it is. That was stability. Now, what does one who pays taxes have to do with such stability, you can figure it out for yourself? Nevertheless, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in this Chamber, when decision-making and coordination takes place, will support all the good proposals that you will first agree on with each other and will be government proposals. But we will not support those things that will be inconsistent between you and who will be looking here for some prolonged artificial breathing for the survival of this suit, which in our view is not good and quality. We are ready to help with other things, for example, delays are great, but there is still something that can be compensated for when negotiating for Slovenia's best status in the next seven-year European budget. We promise to help solve foreign policy problems as much as possible. We also pretend that these announcements from the coalition treaty, as well as the agreement with the super-coaliciary party, are sincere, I think constitutional changes in terms of simplifying the procedures for the appointment of the government and in general the formation of the authority, the corrections of at least the electoral system – if there is a will on the side of the coalition, we are prepared to cooperate constructively. However, we expect the same relationship from the coalition, which is said to be supported or not supported by our good proposals, but judged by content, not rejected by the opposition. I must say, this was a rule in the previous term. In our government's mandate 2004-2008, for example, unlike this bad practice, we aligned the 2014-2018 mandate with the opposition's then 51 system laws, which were then adopted in a uniform manner. So, there is good practice. If you want to take a step forward here, you must, of course, amend Article 18 of this Protocol, which prohibits you from supporting what the opposition proposes. You're gonna have to forget that or change it. So we won't support this government. We will support good proposals if they are and if they are coordinated. However, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will not save that part of the opposition or this National Assembly, which, in cases where there will be no unity in the government coalition, will save the coalition because we think that every day, as long as this government and this government coalition will run the executive power in this country, the day of lost opportunities for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The following is Jerca Korče for the LMŠ Group in the presentation of the position of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Candidates and Candidates for Ministers and Ministers, Valuable Assembly, Respected Citizens and Citizens! Before us is the final part and the formation of the 13th Slovenian government. Governments whose design, in a variety of ways, has brought a number of innovations to our young democratic country. We people are naturally inclined to be comforted by the zone and well-known giving with a sense of virtual security, but we all know that this situation can lead us into stagnation and prevent us from seeing a wide view and stifling the window of innovation and progress. The history and political space of our country marked the moments in which we were united. Together in the same goal, we have achieved much and have sometimes exceeded underestimating estimates of foreign and domestic observers and commentators. Our nation came together in key moments. In pursuit of the common goal of the independence of our people, we are united with the thoughts and energy of all, both politicians, economists, younger and older generations, intellectuals, the working class, all our fellow countrymen outside our borders and all the church dignitaries have achieved a common goal, and we have entered the Republic of Slovenia in a single and free breath with both lungs. When we pursued the objectives of joining the European Union and other international organisations and taking on all the steps that led us as a nation and a country, we were united. We have become an equal, respected and credible partner. The purpose of a girl like me, who, at the birth of the State, barely cried out to the world and, at the time of joining the European Union, the primary school bench, should by no means be a lesson in the history of our people. In my introduction, it is a key observation that I have come to understand as an external observer of our political space and as an active citizen who has come to a good understanding of the beauty of our country and the pleasure it offers us during the growing and growing years. On the other hand, knowledge can also be attributed to the experiences that have been gained through the difficult stories of individuals who have been pushed to the brink of society and through the stories of people who come to our places with a modest desire, simply and only to live in peace. If we want to, we know and can achieve our goals. The plurality of opinions is an important part of democracy. This temple of democracy combines different views on what the future of Slovenia should look like and where the centre of political support should be focused. Some advocate the interests of nature protection, other interests of economic development and capital, third interests of only individual social groups, once again the fourth sing science and intellectual development. The look of someone is more focused on numbers, the second you put the sense and understanding of the human being first. Some see the public sector as a service to the economy, others feel that there is no economic development without the public sector. Some think that the elderly know everything because they count wisdom and experience, others trust youthful drive and energy, someone simply assesses that culture is the most important element of the existence of the country, and others put the same weight on security and defence. The key to a solution is in a simple word. In a word that has been spoken and written several times in recent months. In a word that means that we are able to listen, hear, and seek a common solution. In the word of coordination. Coordination of diverse interests whose common red thread is the development of a society based on a wider understanding of the word relationship added value. I simply put this word into my Uncle's search engine and offer me the number of hits intended for the economic dimension of the term. Understanding that it is economically important, we need a stable and stimulating environment in which craftsmen, entrepreneurs and economists, together with employees, can create. The Coalition understands that a predictable and stimulating tax environment is important for our joint development. Moreover, in the Group of Letters of Marjan Šarc, we understand that we are all creating added value. It is created by a teacher who teaches a future entrepreneur, created by a street artist in Chop who brightens the face of the passerby, created by athletes who are examples of young people and the name of our country proudly wear on their breasts. The added value creates the work of nurses, the self-sacrifice of firefighters, created by the grandmother, who with her wisdom marks her grandson and creates her journalist with her critical gaze. Every man, every individual in our community builds a better country. Dear High Council, dear colleagues! In cooperation and coordination, there is a path to progress. Our common vision, vision and the common objective of the development of the country must go beyond the viewing borders within a four-year mandate. Our modus operandi should be based on coordination, which does not mean that laws are made without prior dialogue and common solutions. Our way is to build on accelerated inter-resort coordination, where the health sector breathes together with financial and agricultural resources with infrastructure. Bernhard Krieg wrote: “Governments must rule, but strong governments need strong opposition.” In the letter to Marjan Šarc, we add that the government needs an opposition that exercises control and gives criticism. The way he carries out his task should not be by netting fears, discrediting and causing constant negativeism in citizens. Respected opposition, I believe that we are also aware of the challenges and challenges that lie ahead of us and demand from all of us that we sit at the common table, recognize common ground and reconcile different views. Dear Members, the current composition of the National Assembly is certainly the most varied in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, since the electorates have placed nine parties in Parliament. After almost three months of coordination, we have come to the final and most important action at the same time that the government will be able to act with full powers. The formation of the coalition and the government has been extremely difficult and required probably unprecedented combinatorics, calmness and also audacity for compromise in Slovenian politics. Above all, it required a lot of coordination. This has already shown the emerging government that it is capable of accepting compromises and conducting dialogue. In the Marjana Shara Group, we believe that all the measures introduced by the new government will first be coordinated by all partners of the coalition, which, despite many common views and values, still have quite different programmes and expectations. We will talk intensively to all partners, both those in the economy and those in the unions. Only harmonised proposals among all stakeholders can bring the stability and predictability that our country needs. We need a strong economy, because it can finance solidarity, but we also need solidarity to remain a normal society. We believe that the work of the future government will be based on a dialogue that will lead to coordinated proposals and solutions that will not end up dead on paper, but will also be carried out in practice. 13. The Slovenian government team of the Republic of Slovenia is supporting us and we wish it much success and results in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the next position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! It was nice to listen to Jerco, we calmed down a little and looked into the future a little bit more with optimism. Today, my dears, we are moving into the final act of the last few months after the state elections, when we confirm the list of candidates and candidates for ministerial posts and thus get a new 13th government. In this we must acknowledge that instead of feeling that this is something good, that it is a key move to start a substantive work, these days I regret to feel something else — the impression that it is something that is done by force, if you want, the artificial formation of five parties, the associated Levica or today I have heard from a super-coal client, and that you are all tied together by a common denominator, how to get to the government, just for the sake of the government itself, and how, by which party or someone to prevent and close the door to the government. It wasn't, and it wasn't. How this government was made up and how another government could not, we all know here, and I also believe our citizens and citizens. Even the five-party coalition contract is not a bilateral document, which states that we are only associating with one or two goals, to reach the government just to get to the government. Representatives of the parties to the current coalition have spent many hours in substantive coordination, and together with Levica have come to the basic common denominators, what needs to be done to make things better in our Slovenia. This is the result of all negotiations and, finally, assuming responsibility, that we have a good coalition treaty ahead of us and that today we will vote on a good list of candidates and candidates for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Now, a lot of people are going to stink, and, of course, I expect the debate of the opposition Members on how I hope to say that the coalition treaty is good, and especially how can I say that the list of candidates is good. I understand that, because I know that for them the list of candidates and candidates is bad already because there are no names on it for their candidates and candidates, because it is always in this Slovenia for every one of us to find faults and it is harder to find good qualities and good things. Water to the mill, how bad everything is, will be a dispute over the provisions of the Coalition Capital Tax Treaty, as we know that Slovenia has been in a very good place in recent weeks. Despite this excitement, I still hold this coalition treaty to be good. One predecessor told me that with 80% of the contract, they also agree that the list of candidates and candidates for ministerial posts is good. Why? Because it is time for us to say Bob Bob today and say that the coalition treaty shows the direction of solutions to key issues for problems in our Slovenia, which we know are few. At the hearings, candidates and candidates for ministerial posts presented us with the necessary indicators for how these solutions can be reached. It would be pointless, my dears, to list again all the problems that this government will have to face, because for them, at least those who have been in politics for a long time, as well as citizens and citizens, we know well. It is easy to start solving these problems here in the National Assembly and in the government, which I believe and I am sure will be confirmed today. However, in the light of respect for our citizens and citizens, I would like to point out that it is right that expectations for this government are great and that the Social Democrats themselves do not see any meaning, we do not want to apologize and find reasons why something cannot be done or why something will not be done, or because there are many parties in the government and we cannot agree or that this government is a minority. What's more, some name of the government, an assessment of it so much, because it's a minority, because it's left-handed, it's left- centred, it's liberal, and I don't know what else, it's very empty, and it's also meaningless, it doesn't mean anything. They will only count the results, and that is what the Prime Minister of the Government has made clear. Also, my dears, the coalition treaty itself is nothing more and nothing less than a 50-page Circus written document signed by the Presidents of the parties without validity and without value if we do not bring the content to life. In doing so, let me touch on the already mentioned dispute between the economists and Levica regarding the taxation of capital, and I stress that it is irresponsible that in advance anyone is disturbed and in advance without precise legal solutions, calculations and arguments, we are drawing a frightening picture of solutions that in this case would push our economy to the brink, thus, of course, new jobs, simply the future of our people, because this is simply not true. It was not the purpose of this coalition and it is not today for the President of the Government and ministers to take up a coalition contract, order their services to simply sign, rewrite the provisions of this contract, bring them into legal form and send them to the National Assembly and it is made a hook. Of course you don't do that. This way of interpreting the coalition contract and everything it contains is not only unrealistic and irresponsible, but also misleading. The aim of this Treaty is not only to find solutions in the areas of taxation for the coalition, which will be adopted in agreement with the social partners, which are considered in a number of key aspects, but in particular all these solutions must benefit citizens and citizens. And that is why it is also right to stop the tradition of dividing into those who work and those who spend in this Slovenia, on the economy and the public sector, on those who create jobs, and on those who only occupy jobs, on more- and less-valued jobs, on all kinds of division only so that they can rank, to whom the coalition contract will serve more and to whom it will harm more. We are simply all on the same shore, each with our own role and each task, but no one should be excluded or put to the brink for any reason. This is our position, the position of the Social Democrats, and mine personally, if you will. Even before that, we need to change our perception that we are divided into these or those because it simply does not. Therefore, let it not sound exhausted that the Social Democrats are repeatedly and repeatedly repeating that social dialogue is not only the key to good and long-term sustainable goals, but the condition that we will be able to achieve our goals for the good of our country in all the departments, of course, that our people living in this beautiful Slovenia will be satisfied. That is why I want everyone, now candidates and candidates for ministers and, of course, the President of the Government, to have a lot of patience in negotiating, even though it will take a day or a week longer, and I hope that we will not make sure that we find the right solutions that will lead this Slovenia forward. Finally, let me say that the Social Democrats will confirm this government, the candidates and the candidates, and that we wish all candidates and candidates for ministers a strong wish, and I wish the Prime Minister great success and Slovenia good luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the following word on behalf of the Modern Centre Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u40	Mr President-in-Office, Mr President-in-Office, fellow Members and Members-in-Office, candidates and candidates for ministers, including Mr Miro Cerar, President of the former government! Although Slovenia is in a period of intense economic growth, low unemployment and good public finances, it is a list of problems, or if you want the challenges still long enough for the next term to be no time for rest. Addressing health problems, higher pensions, negotiations with public sector unions, ensuring the staffing and technical conditions of work in the military, restricting penetrating work, decommissioning wages are just some of the objectives of the coalition to improve the lives of every citizen and citizen of Slovenia and to ensure a better future for future generations. However, the coalition's path, despite a significantly better starting point than it was in 2014, when the previous government began to operate, will not be paved with flowers. The coalition of five politically most profitable and responsible parties has been agreed on the strength of a difficult political climate in which, in a desire for greater media attention, the language of hatred and radicalism, both on the left and on the right side of the political spectrum, is growing. For example, the discussion on security or on the housing problem of young people is almost no longer without the racist contributions associated with the migration crisis, the discussion on income taxation or the protection of the environment, not without the measurement of entrepreneurs, economists and word inputs from the period of class struggle. Despite the fact that the debate on the content of the coalition agreement has already fuelled a healthy exchange of views, not to say beyond common sense, we are confident in the Party of the Modern Centre that, regardless of what anyone thinks about it, it will be possible to implement the coalition treaty with a great deal of tolerance and negotiation for the benefit of all. Today, Slovenia does not need a policy that artificially creates a class struggle, nor does it need those that are uncritically servile to the interests of those who already have the levers of social power. Slovenia still needs a balanced central and at the same time social policy to respond to the above-mentioned challenges of the economic, health, pension, defence and social system. Additional challenges await us in the area of justice, where, according to the most recent news, the laws seem to be written for the average person, who is not difficult to place behind bars, and they are committed to freedom and will be able to enjoy life without sanctions with the money they stole or washed before 2011. If we have succeeded in the previous mandate, if I use the parable, to remedy the foundations of the home we call Slovenia, to rebuild the roof, the facade, the windows, we must now make our stay in this house decent and even more just. We also need to introduce a culture of tolerance and mutual respect into this house, which we call Slovenia. In 1990, we voted in favour of an open and humane country, a society of compassion and respect for rights, for connection and friendship with the world. We wish that our country will not lose the opportunity to establish itself in itself and in the world as a state of people, not numbers, as a society of the heart, not of the muscles, as a country of freedom does not borders. Your Honor! The modern centre party supports the future Slovenian government precisely because it believes that Slovenia remains with it in the way of man, heart and freedom. Happy 13th Slovenian government and thank you, all well 12th. Time is always a just judge, and I have no doubt that it will show that we will remember the 2014–2018 mandate after our country's successor has turned towards a secure and healthy future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The following is Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec on behalf of the left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Today, this National Assembly will be endorsed by 15 ministers and ministers proposed by coalition parties who will form a minority government. One hundred and two days have passed since the June parliamentary elections. What citizens and citizens have said in these elections, I will not repeat again, and the fact is that they have made their expectations clear. In most cases, they chose the middle and the left, saying that they do not want to be smooched, backward, paramilitary units or that they actually want what they would want after many years of saving and now even after a few years of economic growth — quality public health, decent wages and pensions, fair sharing of what was created, short-term well-being for everyone and not just for a handful. This task, if elected, will be given to the minority government of Marjan Sarca today. And if this government wants to do this will, it must not repeat old patterns. For example, since I remember hearing that taxes in Slovenia are too high, that the pension for my generation will not, so to speak, be that state-owned companies and banks, along with public health, are only and the only place for corruption. These are the paradisaic slogans of the right, which have been consistently and persistently repeated over the past decade and have also been applied to the so-called left environment. However, the result of misleading formulas is today's situation and will require a departure from these misleading assessments and policies that followed them. There will be no good pensions without adequate inflows to the pension fund, but above all there will be no policy if it continues to convince citizens that the pension system is unrestrained. The pension system is a system of long-term solidarity, which can only work if the state guarantees people that this solidarity will one day be their own, but not that it undermines their faith at every step and once again. Quality public health will not, if we continue to agree to populist treatment, talk about waiting types, corruption and so on, instead of addressing problems in it, such as public and private health, ordering medical equipment and material, providing additional funds for the renovation of obsolete hospitals and ensuring decent work for all health workers, and not just a handful of doctors who pay the best in this country 922 seats. Waiting species are only a symptom and not a cause of health problems. And finally, the development breakthrough of this country will not be if we blindly follow the mantras that state-owned companies and banks are just a bed of corruption and, on the other hand, allow neoliberal agitators and even, unfortunately, public institutions to destroy them. For example, I will not recall in detail the New Maribor Credit Bank, where the country has invested almost 1 billion recapitalisations and sold it to a speculative fund for EUR 250 million. In discussing the new Governor of Banka Slovenije, I should like to remind myself, for example, of the actions of the former Governor and of the man he wants in his place as governor, Igor Masten. Mr. Masten celebrated in the summer of 2013 with an interview for the work in which he stated that they were, quote: “Factor Bank and Probank are classic candidates for liquidation.” End of quote. According to the then management, the Bank’s Faktor caused a panic between the respondents and an outflow of money from a bank that no financial institution could survive. Boštjan Jazbec, in his capacity as governor, then tried to reassure the public that the statements that certain banks should be liquidated were merely speculation and then, within a week, announced that Banka Slovenije had just begun liquidation of the Bank and Probank. These are the old patterns I'm talking about and with which the new government has to cut. The convergence of the so-called left centre with the political right has proved harmful and destructive. It is the cause of many wrong policies in recent years and for the so-called lost decade. The appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia will certainly be the first test stone for the minority government, where we will see whether it will continue with the harmful policies of compromise with the right or will finally turn away from the policy along the line of least resistance and we will do anything in principle, just so that we do not upset the right. The starting point of this government's promise and its future ministers, with the exception of the areas from which Levica has been exempted, such as, say, defence and foreign policy, go in this direction. But it's not time to open the champagne. The coalition treaty is clear, and now it is the task of all of us Members to look at the ministers and officials of this government under their fingertips in order to reach an agreement in the end. We will certainly hold them for every word we have set out, especially in the field of work and the environment, and we will not support them. After all, what the President of the Government himself said is crucial: they will count the actions, not the words.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. To present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats I invite Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Prime Minister Mr Marjan Sarec, dear colleagues, distinguished candidates and candidates for ministers or ministers of the future Slovenian government! It's kind of strange that we're going to be talking about candidates and candidates for a long time today, and they're hidden somewhere. I prefer to talk when I look a man in the eye. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be exactly six months tomorrow, since the government of Mira Cerar, or the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr. Miro Cerar, resigned. It's not a problem. The problem is, the problems remain. The Republic of Slovenia has practically no government with full powers for six months. In the modern dynamics of events, at a time when the European Union is reshaping, this is a period of non-operational government, to say the least, too long and too bad for the country. If we agree here, then this could also be one of the first tasks of the new government. And I call on the President of the Government, Mr Sharpe – I think he also spoke about this during the presidential election campaign – that the process of establishing the government needs to be simplified. Now we have so much time in our country that we also have some experience. The hearings of candidates and candidates in Novi Slovenija also make sense to us. Members are voting whether the presentation of the candidate or candidate was appropriate. We therefore do not confirm the Minister, conclude and decide on the presentation. This decision is also non-binding for the mandate-holder. He did right by the President of the Government when, in fact, he gave a slap to the coalition MPs who raised their hand for one of the candidates and then he withdrew it. And here's our first plus to start with the pluses, so you won't say that the opposition is just criticizing. Therefore, in New Slovenia, we expect, as you have seen, the distinguished President, many times before, these changes are very fast. We have also seen changes in the electoral system in some way in the consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Before I continue to run out of time, Mr President, including your government, I would like to ask you some very specific questions and also very simple ones. Will you reject the proposals for legal solutions even if they are good and if they come from New Slovenia? Will you really respect the constitutional order? Finally, you swore to respect the constitutional order. Here I am very specifically referring to the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the financing of private schools. Will Slovenian entrepreneurship and negotiating savings be rewarded or punished, Mr President? Will the one who saves for his old age be rewarded, or will you nationalize his savings? I would also like to say that, because there have been several debates here, in fact, the entire previous term simply did not understand what public health is and what public health is. We didn't understand what public education is and what public education is. Will you serve us with your definition of these terms? So today Slovenia will receive, among other things, a government that will increase the state administration, so at least we read in the media. The ministries will be given two, three or even four State secretaries, which are expected to lead individual areas in addition to the directors of the Directorates and the Minister. Do you think the honourable Prime Minister of the Government, a respected mandate-holder, rightly so, given that some of your coalition partners have only designated the agreement as an agreement without any obligation to carry out anything? The state administration will therefore be under your leadership, so you are ordering, Mr. Sarec, to become rich. Of course, an efficient economy is also needed for an effective public service and a social state. With good economic growth, of course, we cannot be euphoric. Good economic growth is due to our entrepreneurs, our good people, our workers and so on. Why can't we be euphoric about this economic growth? What are we worried about? Mostly two things. Firstly, we have only recently actually reached a pre-crisis level of GDP. Secondly, there is a critical backlog in the productivity of the Slovenian economy, also and mainly due to abnormal bureaucratic obstacles. Let's see the numbers. Slovenia was 16.3% behind the European average for productivity in 2008. In 2016, a 19.3% backlog is already in place. Austria was 17.6% above the European average in 2008. However, in 2016, the European average of productivity was 16.6%. And Germany in 2008 6.9% above the European average and in 2016 5.9% above the European average of productivity. Here, the country that forms the business environment must make substantial moves. A respected future government! We need to change the policy that kills the middle class, because it's practically gone. And without this middle class, we can't have a successful and rich society. We have enough policies that create a social climate that limits and prevents the ambitions of those who want more. Therefore, we should not be surprised by the information that our countries are also going abroad mainly to the highly educated and ambitious entrepreneurial people that Slovenia is stifling. From other countries, however, social and educational weaknesses form the largest proportion of world migration. And the ones who could only move forward are fleeing our country. According to Gallup's last study on the situation in the labour market, it is worrying that 54% of young Slovenians would like to move out. The data resulting from the response of young people is the perception or belief or experience that hard work, education and effort in Slovenia do not go anywhere. Is that right? And young Slovenians are thinking more and more about getting their lives done outside of their own country. The country that has invested in their knowledge has been dealing with itself for too long, so as a stepmother’s lameness, it can’t take care of them. But in Germany, Austria, for example, they have jobs ahead of them, they have a better life ahead of them, and they are welcome there. I would like to stop with just a few words in Slovenian foreign policy, whether it should be balanced or unbalanced and so on. A balanced foreign policy does not mean that the number of visits to Russia must be the same as the number of visits to the United States. In fact, we cannot have a balanced foreign policy because this number of visits is not a criterion. We have very clear here in this house the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, July 2015. We have written very clearly there on the basis of the referendum will and people's decision to represent the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, our fundamental political and value framework. Secondly, again on the basis of the referendum outcome, as many as two thirds of the voters who participated in the referendum on 23 March 2003 decided that Slovenia should become a member of NATO. So, according to the Declaration on Foreign Policy, the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to NATO, our fundamental security framework. We claim to be a nuclear state, and the candidate for an external minister says we are a major country in the European Union. Thank God, we have, we have achieved so much, most of what has happened to us within the EU is certainly a common European currency. We are part of the Schengen system, but in the beginning I said, the European Union is changing. The fact that we are and that we will be a nuclear nation must actually be told by the other members of the European Union, our allies. Who are our allies? Do we have clear answers here? Soon this government, ministers and ministers will also attend Council of the European Union meetings. One of the key issues ahead of us is the common agricultural policy after 2020. Thus, on 1 January 2021 we start a new common agricultural policy. I don't think there's been much work done here today. Here the new minister is waiting for a lot of work and, of course, a complete government that we will actually have on the basis of subsidiarity and what the new common agricultural policy actually allows us, such a agricultural policy that will actually put the Slovenian farmer and the Slovenian countryside at the forefront. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We, Nova Slovenija, have supported some candidate and some candidate in the presentations. We supported their presentation because they were giving hope so that there could be something in the area they would be leading. Of course, the question is what will be their political support within the government. We are also waiting for the government's response on the basis of our call yesterday for dialogue with all Slovenian economic actors to find common elements of Slovenia's new economic policy as soon as possible through dialogue. We don't have that. We remain a very clear opposition party that will support good solutions agreed within the entire coalition, it is said, within the entire six. We also expect the adoption of our solutions to the legislative proposals. Some have already been sneered by candidates for ministers, finance, economy. We'll see, the test will soon be possible. Otherwise, we will not support this government today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Next to the word, I invite the Mag. Andrej Reich, on behalf of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! At Alenka Bratušek we will support the government of Marjan Sarca. When we were assured in the negotiations for the composition of the government that the new government would raise the percentage of pensions and thus raise them, we were the first to promise Mr Marjan Sarc all five votes of our Members. Now, after the final coalition negotiations and the signed coalition treaty, we are even more confident that we are getting a good government. A government that will truly work for the good of people, because it is important that we want to work and that we want to do good for our country and for the benefit of our citizens. At Alenka Bratušek’s party, we have already proved that we can take difficult measures if we know that these measures will ultimately bring something good. The economic recovery was costly, followed by five years of continuous economic growth. The promises of a new government are good. Each percentage of economic growth is more than EUR 300 million per year in the budget. With this money, it is possible to further improve the standard of living in our country. And our left-wing government will be able to do so by keeping Slovenia a social state. However, everyone in the government is aware that it is necessary to create and then to share. The new government, which we will confirm today, has already set itself three important tasks that it will try to carry out this year. This is, for the first time, a reduction of waiting lines in health, secondly, a rise in pensions and, thirdly, a rise in minimum wage. In addition to these things, the coalition contract contains a number of other things that we know need to be regulated. We have already written in our electoral programme that pensioners who still want to work can work without being punished by the reduction of their pension, and this is also enshrined in the coalition contract and will be realized. We'll take care of the young. On our initiative, the possibility for young people to guarantee the country's purchase of housing is envisaged. Because of Alenka Bratušek, we also have a coalition contract to provide all Slovenian parents with a minimum maternity allowance regardless of their status. This will significantly improve their social security and may also increase their fertility. As the only parliamentary party with a female president, we are aware that women must also be given the opportunity to take the lead in society. That is why we have reached in the negotiations that the new government will promote the introduction of sex quotas in businesses. The fact that we will all feel properly involved in society in our country will also be pursued by the new government, on the proposal of Alenka Bratušek, by encouraging the introduction of a participatory budget in all municipalities and by improving the electoral system. Alenka Bratušek is an important pillar of government that we receive today. We are interested in efficiency, and we will do everything we can to ensure that this centre-left government, at least as operational as the government of Alenka Bratušek, who has actually done a great deal in the past year and a half. Our experience and our zeal will be shared with our coalition partners. The intentions of all of us are good. We sincerely want to do good for the state and citizens. And that's how we're gonna do it. I invite everyone, including citizens and citizens, who have given us the opportunity to elect today's government to support us in our efforts. We will vote for the left-wing government under the leadership of Marjan Šarc in the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u48	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, dear colleague and colleague! Today, I will not say which government has been the best, but I expect 13 governments to be good. And of course, that is why we will support her in our Desus Group. After a long and hot summer, we are now ahead of the last act of forming a government. The process of appointing a government in Slovenia is relatively complex and long, but certainly useful, as we have reached competent ministers and ministers. The representations of the minister's candidates seem to be too much for many people, I must say, not for us. But if we look at history, we can see that these lists have always been cleared during the process. On one occasion, the candidate was withdrawn, which in the middle of the hearing, because he did not demonstrate sufficient competence for the proposed resort. Something similar happened this time, but at the end of the process we reached a team that showed all the necessary knowledge and experience to be able to work successfully. We believe from experience in the Desus Group that the so-called hearings are welcome, and ultimately the European Parliament knows them, because Members and the public are given insight into the competences of individual candidates. Let me especially point out the Minister and the Minister of the Desus quota. This is President Karl Viktor Erjavec, certainly the most experienced of all who return to the Ministry of Defence. And a new, rather promising face, which turned out to be right at the hearing, Dr. Aleksandra Pivec, who will take over the demanding department – the Ministry of Agriculture. If I go back to forming a coalition, a new coalition treaty has already been signed on 29 August. This great promise, because it advocates a social state, which is the imperative of our party. For us, it is most important that the needs and rights of the older generation will be well represented in the new government, because we have all set ourselves together to correct the injustices that have occurred due to the economic crisis. We will gradually raise minimum pensions above the poverty threshold. For 5 percentage points, we will raise the dose for new pensions and thus provide higher pensions. We will also continue to pay regress to all pensioners. We hope that we will also regulate the area of long - term care and provide more vacancies in nursing homes. And finally, we will finally establish a demographic fund. This is the commitment of our generation to the younger generation and, of course, also the sustainability of the pension fund. All of us, together with the Left, have committed ourselves to addressing three key issues this year, namely waiting lines in health care, pensions and minimum wages. Some here today have spoken about the speaker, including about the change in the electoral system, but we all know very well that we have been here for a while, and we don't have to be here, but we need quite a number of votes to do so. Such changes will be simple and simply very difficult to say. In view of all of this, the 13th Slovenian government will not run out of work. If we play with another number, thirteen is considered an unfortunate number, but many times it has already turned out to be a happy number. If I look at myself, the number 13 has been happy for me in the past. So be it in this case. Happy Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Next, I invite Mr Zveg Jelinčič to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u50	Good day to you all, especially to the Prime Minister! When I heard his speech, I got almost a tearful eye, so everything was fine, so everything was great, so everything was told what was going to happen and how everything would be resolved, that at first I thought I was dreaming, and then I saw that I was in Parliament. I don't know if anything's gonna be so nice. These are mere wishes. Given the team we're getting, which we're going to get as a government, that's not the question at all, I would highly doubt that any of this will be settled and done. I'm sure the Prime Minister will want something done, but in this government there will be a whole bunch of old cats who will already be able to turn things in their favor, who will know how to bring the thirsty through the water of the Prime Minister, and when the matter is resolved, they will say, "Oh, my God, because we didn't think so, it was something." Many of these things will happen, most of them, because for four years most of these people have led the government that has brought Slovenia into a very delicate position. It's not good in Slovenia. Talkers about how we're doing well – if I went to Styria, say, to Prlecia or somewhere, I'd probably get some ears. That way, I would get some of the Left's ears if I came to those places, but especially, say, yesterday at a trade fair in Celje, where they expected Mr Moon to come and have an opening speech, but it wasn't. Better for him. I think it's about the menu and the recipes, while we all know that the dishes are nowhere, but the kitchen is a well, and the dishes that are where they are are probably already done. The people who have brought Slovenia into the migration crisis, who have brought migrants to Slovenia and who are still driving to Slovenia, who drive foreign people with the lowest possible education, with mass families, and who occupy Slovenia's cultural space and eat European culture, are the people who have now regained their positions, although a little lower, before such a Prime Minister, will now be just the foreign minister. But this man, who will now be the Foreign Minister, has ratified this Moroccan Marrakesh issue, past the National Assembly, which will allow us to receive countless different migrants from all over the world. This is a man who, despite the consent of the National Assembly, filed an action against Croatia, not even in Croatian, nor in Slovenian, has this been written, indicating not only anti-Slovenian action, but also an extreme lack of knowledge of international law. And such a man will be the Foreign Minister. Yes, it is true that he will have a car to drive around, that he will have a nice meal there at various receptions, that he will bite some small sandwiches and drink some champagne, but in the first place Mrs. Kitarović will always be pushed aside and Croatian ministers will place him somewhere in a corner, or by word or command, they already know why and how they will be able to corner him. Rumor has it that this government will correct the injustices. It's gonna be hard. It's gonna be hard. For for those of us who already have, about 35,000 laws and laws, will this government be able to erase at least 20,000 of these acts? That's impossible. Because given that there will be even more employment in that part of the public administration that does not produce or serve Slovenian citizens, in that part it will only be an even more devouring monster that will swallow money that will swallow millions — from where? Maybe from taxes or from confiscated property to Slovenian citizens? That's a solution, too. And we fear these solutions. In the Slovenian National Party for sure. When it starts, I mean, people will also get up at the end and say, "Now is enough!" You're gonna raise your pension. Yeah, that's nice. Where are you gonna get the money? Who's gonna give you the money? Foreign? Not anymore. Foreign is in crisis, a new economic crisis is approaching. Orders from Germany fall, fall intensely, but the Slovenian industry is mainly linked to the German industry. Then what's it gonna be? You'll get 10,000 different migrants, officially 10,000, unofficially about 30,000. It was today that the German Interior Minister said, he had agreed with the Italians that they would live on migrants from there after the solidarity formula, which means also in Slovenia. The Austrian Interior Minister said that the border would be closed until the European Union's external borders were completely closed. And what about us? And we're going to be screaming here and talking about how we're having a good time and how Brussels is a beautiful capital and how Juncker has an ishias, and how some other people have a lumbago and things like that. This is the future of our beautiful country, unfortunately. I don't like such a future, I'd like to have a country where we'll live well, where we won't be threatened with the different ones, not the Shishiks who walk around with those cats on their heads, but threatened with those who walk around with cats in Hofer on Vic. They're not Shishiks, they're the ones where you don't know what he's got under those cats, whether he's got a kalashnikov or some kind of rocket launcher. I'm sorry. I hope that in Slovenia, however, we will heal and that perhaps someone at the Ministry of Culture will not allow any more extreme societies, such as those that support these intense activities. The former government has promised something similar, everything will be fine, everything will be better. But it's not better. It's worse. As far as the economy is concerned, I fear nothing will be done, as the economy is linked to foreign policy. Our foreign policy sucks or it's not. Let us just take the example of the Three Seas initiative, a brilliant thing from which, of course, Slovenia has come out under the rule of Mr Cerar. And I don't think a lot of people even know what kind of initiative this is. However, this initiative would do a lot of good for Slovenia. But these are the things we wrap nicely in the cellophane and then throw away. I don't know how this is gonna turn out. But I'm sure of something, I'm sure that this ruling coalition will do anything to keep it to the end. She'll agree to any blackmail of the Left, for which you can be sure they won't be cheap. The price you will pay for your existence will be expensive. On the other hand, there is a strong opposition. And at least as far as the Slovenian National Party is concerned, I will tell you that we will not wait a hundred days for you to consolidate, because how will you re-consolidate yourself if there are 80% of the old personnel that have been since before. They will just move the papers from one drawer to another drawer or from one room to another room and go all the way forward. In the Slovenian National Party we believe that you have enough minutes to prepare, this is little less than two hours. So do your best and do your best.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the Group and are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. The first word is Mrs Jelka Godec, to prepare Lidija Dijak Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u52	Thank you very much. This government will certainly not have a hundred days of peace, nor will it need it. As said by a colleague from Alenka Bratušek, we confirm the government of Marjan Cerar, a recycled government, and for a hundred days it is more than enough to have peace. As far as the coalition agreement is concerned and what is written down, it is difficult to support this government or ministers. The coalition of five parties signed this with the thirst of the sixth, the Left, which on all the committees where I was when the hearings were held, we negotiated this and that in the coalition contract. So they co-created the contract. Mr President, how could you write that you would maintain free public education? Is there a free public education in Slovenia? I don't think so. Below you wrote under health care: “In the basket of compulsory health insurance rights, which will be free for patients, we will also include dental services. So you've written down flyers that definitely don't hold, citizens pay taxes, contributions, and therefore public education has never been free and health care, the rights from the basic basket of health insurance will never be and they're not free. It's the kind of thing that makes it hard to support. However, secondly, the fact that you have parties in the coalition that promised to shorten the waiting periods "under urgent" in the previous term was supported by Minister Kolar Celarc and with the aim of regulating health care, two-thirds of the health reform should be done. Today, we are reading the coalition contract of the current, i.e. six coalition parties on as many as three pages of the previous copy-paste, so this is for SD, SMC, Desus, and finally Alenka Bratušek. Then you talk about the separation between public and private health, but still the Minister, the future Minister of Health, cannot decide what public health is. It would be better if public health were separated from private predators, suppliers. In the previous term, we have proven a number of things through the commission of inquiry. That's one thing. The latter is a school where the candidate for a minister said that he respected the Constitutional Court's decision, but it is not a priority in the coalition contract or otherwise, so it is a matter of financing public programmes in non-state schools. I certainly cannot support such a minister and such a government, which will not implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik and Mr Samo Bevk is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Nicely greeted! When a person listens to all this debate, he is deeply concerned about the language, but then you become the same. Therefore, I must say that I am saddened that some Slovenians have one very bad habit, it is to condemn others and not at all give them the opportunity to show what they know, what they can do, nor in politics in this temple of democracy is an exception. Nevertheless, I hope that we will conclude this mandate and that it will finally be over. Because anyone can criticize it because it's the easiest thing to do. Sadly, though, not everyone can connect, step back a step or two, listen and even hear, be principled, and even do something. That's a tough one, obviously very much. And do something good for all of us, for all of Slovenia, and especially for my Maribor. And as with decentralisation, the whole of Slovenia should also be helped by Maribor. And this government has set itself the goal of raising the average to the legal level, which simply means that municipalities, including Maribor, get more money. In this way we will be able to implement several projects in local environments that are, of course, urgently needed to be implemented. In Maribor, this will restore Rotovska square with library, Pohorje law, which spreads out, you will not believe in twelve municipalities, arrange the road, sports facilities, schools and more, including climates in the Maribor UKC. And most importantly, as far as I'm concerned, it's that in the end it counts the result and only and exclusively the result. No talk here will help us if we're not active and if we don't get started right away. That is why I congratulate candidates and candidates in advance, but at the same time I wish them a great deal of patience, courage and hard skin, because they will really need it. But I want Slovenia to be happy. I will, of course, support the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I would only warn that there should be peace in the hall when all the speakers speak. I don't think that's what you hear on TV, but the speaker is probably in the way. The next one has the word, Mr. Only Bevk, to prepare Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The final part of the creation of the new Slovenian government is ahead. Until the approval of the lists of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers and thus the establishment of the 13th Slovenian government separates us for just a few hours, this is the first time in Slovenia's recent parliamentary history as a minority government. It has been 102 days since the state elections. If I have counted correctly, still 7 days less than it was necessary to form a government after the parliamentary elections in 1996. It is a race, however, that it will be a minority and with the most coalition partners and that the government of the opposition will be supported by another party, that is, a Levica. I believe that we are all aware that our work will be very difficult and will require a great deal of coordination, especially patience and patience. We need to put a state-of-the-art principle at the forefront, not partisan party interests. This is the only way we will be able to implement the coalition treaty and complete the mandate entrusted to us by the electorate and the electorate. We have put health care at the forefront, as the vast majority of Slovenians believe it is the greatest value. The availability, quality, efficiency and financial sustainability of health care is therefore our goal and, in the first place, the reduction of unacceptably long waiting periods in health care. It is very important that the care of the elderly, the establishment of the demographic fund and the gradual rise of the minimum pension and the percentage of the dose to at least 63% are also at the forefront. Of course, it is necessary to start prior to this by regulating the situation of young people in society as an equivalent and important pillar of our society. Let me mention some of the negotiated content of the Coalition Treaty. In the labour market, this raises wages to €700, increasing R & D funding to 1% of GDP in the development field. Our objective in the area of culture is also to raise the budgetary resources for culture to the level of that in 2009 and, of course, to adopt a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. In the area of security, we have put at the forefront the increase in resources for the normal functioning of national security and human resources sub-systems of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the development of a comprehensive migration strategy, as this is today a challenge facing Europe as a whole. In the field of foreign policy, however, I would point out only two tasks. These are the arrangements for all open issues with Croatia and the Presidency of the EU Council. Your Honor! Given the limited time available to me and the fact that I come from Idria or the Idrija-Churque region, I will only point out one more problem that we are experiencing in the territory of the whole country, which is almost a 10-year period of substantially reduced investment in the modernisation of state road infrastructure. At this point, I especially point out the fourth development axis, where, solely because of European funds, I am repeating myself solely because of European funds, has been invested in a great deal. In the wider area of the fourth development axis, around €150 million. Let me mention only the modernisation of the road between Želen and Mosto na Soča, the construction of Škofja Loka and Gorenje Vas Oblast, then the road Zali Log-Davča, which is also important for the development of the ski center Cerkno and the third belt in the Zala competition between Godovic and Idrija. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the lack of strategic transport documents adopted in 2015 and 2016, which address the fourth development axis as weak or without the so-called Idrian-logic development axis and, as a consequence, the collapse of projects in the so-called six-year rolling stock plan. Both the transport strategy and the resolution run counter to the Strategy for Spatial Development of the Republic of Slovenia, since it defines the fourth development axis as a link in the form of the letter Y from Vidma via Tolmin and Škofje Loka forwards to Domžal and from Želen to Idrija to Logatca and thus to the highway cross. It is absolutely necessary to increase investment in the section from Želenen via Idrija to Logatco and finally after 2006 to finally place the spatial space and start building the link between Cerkni and Gorenje village. It was precisely due to the lack of projects on these two sections that Idrija was cut off from the world for almost a month, as the road between Idrija and Godovic was completely closed from 23 July to 20 August, and today there is one-way traffic between three sites and complete closures are also announced for 2019 and 2020. Such a radical prison of a state road is rare in current practice in Slovenia and in the way it was carried out is totally unacceptable. From the new Minister of Infrastructure, Mag. I therefore expect all support for updating the fourth development axis, because we do not have as the current second and third development axis. Of course, I expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to respond as soon as possible to the initiative that we addressed to it with State Councillor Bojan Režun due to the problems that have arisen due to the complete closure of the road that I was talking about earlier. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Janji Slug and Mr Miha Kordiš the next.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Today is the day when we reaffirm the will expressed by voters in this year's parliamentary elections when left and middle parties supported 58.8% of the vote, and today is the day when we also confirm the position expressed in recent public opinion polls, where voters have made it clear in two thirds that they do not want new elections. The past government can boast of many things. The indicators testifying to her work are all turned upside down. If we look at unemployment, which was in 2014, when the government of Mira Cerar began its work, at the number 130 000, it fell to 75 this year. Particularly among young people, there is a positive trend, as 94,000 young people have been given a job and compared to the year 2014, when there were 11,000 at the Employment Institute, there are only 5 000 more today, and I hope that we will be able to take care of these in the next term. The minimum gross wage was raised from EUR 789 to EUR 842 at the time of the Government of Mira Cerar, with an average salary of between EUR 1008 and 1077. The risk of poverty has fallen, pensions have risen from 613 to 640 – I am talking about an average old pension – and the gross domestic product per capita has risen by over EUR 2 000. The employment forecast by the end of this year, which is also the result of the work of this government, is encouraging as the employees announced 19 000 400 new jobs in the second half of 2018. When we look at the world competitiveness scales, at this time Slovenia has risen from 70th to 37th in the World Economic Forum, which is a big leap, as well as on the competitiveness scale of the International Institute for Management Development, from 55th to 43rd in a row, and the greatest progress has been made within economic performance, where we have climbed 18 cities. There is also a ranking by which the performance of a government is assessed, according to four macroeconomic indicators, according to which the Mira Cerar government has taken first place in three indicators and second place in the fourth indicator, i.e. only one of the previous governments has been more successful than the government that is going forward today. Today, many words have been heard about the coalition treaty. Of course, the coalition treaty is a very important action, its signature, but more importantly what follows is what is important, and in the SMC we stand in the position that, above all, the important solutions and measures that will follow this coalition treaty will be coherent, that they will be constructive, that they will be geared towards progress and for the good of all people. As I said before, with the results of the previous term, of course, we have already proved this. Today there is also a lot of talk about a recycled government. The SMC joins this government with four ministerial candidates, with two already performing these functions in the previous term and two not yet. Those who are entering the new government with knowledge and operational experience, with positive work from the previous mandate and new two with momentum and energy. Their professional qualifications, their readiness, have all demonstrated convincingly at the hearings of the competent parliamentary committees, as well as the complications of their hearings, presentations and their validation. If I stop at the candidate for Minister of the Environment and Space of Mr Juret Lebn. The Committee has unequivocally expressed the will or opinion of all Members present that Mr Jure Leben has made a very detailed presentation of all areas of activity of the Ministry of Environment and Space and that he has shown himself exceptionally with knowledge of the director. He touched on practically all the pressing issues and offered very concrete solutions. He has always stressed that dialogue is the most important one, that communication between the most important sector is the one, and that some acceleration of decision-making and work processes must also be achieved both in the Ministry and in the bodies in the composition and also announced the human resources strengthening and efficiency of the inspection services, which we have, of course, seen throughout the past mandate as even more necessary. In particular, I must point out that he has committed himself to zero tolerance for pollutants, that he has highlighted that the costs for the rehabilitation of polluted areas should be borne out to the polluter, and that he has committed himself to regulating the situation in the polluted and degraded areas, especially in these two areas, which have professional grounds – Celje and Měžica. At this point, however, we would have to hurry with the opposition, which today is full of criticism. I believe that you have already demonstrated in your work on the committees over the past two weeks what kind of opposition you will be, and here, of course, I am talking about the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, where your colleague has shown how he imagines democracy; he has shown how he feels about fellow Members of Parliament and how he feels about the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Miha Kordish, and the preparation of Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. After hearings by the Minister's candidates, when the vote was held, I did not support any of the candidates where I was with them, although some of us, at least at the declaratory level, came closer in politics and some of us did not come together at all. Why? Despite some of the points we agree on, I did not support ministerial candidates, but it is clear that I simply do not believe them. I don't believe they'll keep their own promises, I don't think they'll stick to our agreements in the coalition agreement. Of course, put me on a lie, I'll be most pleased if you put me on a lie, and things are happening as they are supposed to, and as agreed, but, you know, until I see, I don't believe. For Levi, I have covered three committees, the first was the Labour Committee, the second Education Committee and the last Defence Committee – if I rank them as likely to be supported by the Minister in terms of his declared positions. If I start with the Labour Committee, the candidate for a minister, other than the SMC, has started her initial presentation by reiterating the provisions of the Coalition Treaty, which is good because in these provisions is a large part of the content of the requirements that we have brought to the table in Levica. Furthermore, it has promised the immediate establishment of working groups on the government or the Ministry of Labour-Left, on the subject of pension reform, which promises to be the first progressive pension reform in 25 years of our country, to raise the minimum pension to 630 euros, to raise the dose to 63% and that future pensioners will receive a fairer pension. And, of course, it is also an important element that this increase in pensions is financed by employers by raising the contribution rate for the capital side. The next thing that the candidate for the Minister of Labour signed is an expansion of the definition of working relationship, i.e. amendments to the Labour Relations Act, which allow for a more effective enforcement of penitentiaries. Finally, it has made a strong commitment in the area of minimum wage to start a phase-up of the minimum wage with effect from 1 January 2019, as set out in the Coalition Treaty, every year for 4.5% of wages, although I hope and our expectations in Levica are that by the new year we will already prepare, harmonise and confirm the new Minimum Wages Act, which would exclude the inclusion of supplements in the definition of minimum wage, which would set a new formula for regular lifting and harmonisation of minimum wages and so on. Finally, the candidate for a minister also committed herself to 40 new jobs at the Labour Inspectorate, i.e. 40 new work inspectors at the Labour Inspectorate, who, as we know, is severely malnourished and unable, even if he wants, to properly prosecute violators of labour law who break workers' backs. Come on, education. Dr. Jerney Pikalo of the species SD. He has committed himself to supporting the strike requirements of staff in education and education. Very quickly, when the government stands up, we will see whether this commitment of his endures or not — Branimir Strukelje has already announced the continuation of union activities if they do not come to the government with unions together. He also announced the limitation of existing paid practices, i.e. hidden fees at the Academy and 1% of the increase in higher education funding by 2025 – currently this one-per-per-cent increase is expected by 2032, so that is definitely progress, but it is not, I tell you right away, satisfactory. This is a faster pace than anticipated, but now it is still less than we had in higher education in the past. What disturbed me with the candidate for Minister of Education was that we had no commitment to include a doctoral study in the system of regular study, and it also bothered me to maintain the funding of at least some private schools and that the project of free kindergartens was only intended to be conditional. However, there will be a major higher education battle around the Higher Education Act, and more money must be provided here, more democracy must be provided at the university, so the so-called academic Mandarin should step on his toes because they are currently implementing the internal privatisation of the university – as we remember the additions affair and so on. And of course, it is necessary to provide full free education. I would like to conclude with Mr. Karl Erjavac, the candidate for Minister of Defence. Mr Erjavac and I have practically come to no point together. And I can't say this completely sovereignly because of our questions, our initiatives have been responded by force of non-direct answers, it's unfolding there like an eel. Perhaps he even lied through Luka Koper about the logistics connection – we do not know this – because the media reported that NATO, the U.S. military, was interested in a permanent arrangement, but that was confirmed by the US military itself, while Mr Erjavec said it was a one-time commercial deal. Which one is it? We'll have to wait for that. I am concerned, however, that if there is not enough pressure for the public, of course the pressure that we join in Levica, that the acquisition of new armoured personnel and the investment of 1.2 billion euros in future old iron for NATO's demands will actually occur and that these funds will be lost for research and development, for public health and for other socially beneficial subsystems. And we will do everything to make sure that these funds do not end for the needs of NATO but to find their way into the well-being of all citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u61	The word is "Ludmila Novak." Get Robert Polnar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u62	Nicely greeted! I'm sorry that the Prime Minister has just left the hall, of course he has this right, but it's a little harder to address him or speak to him because he's not here. Well, I've already said once that I congratulate Marjan Sarc on his courage to take over the most responsible city in the country as a novelty in state policy. It really takes courage. And this is also kind of an experiment for Slovenia. But let's wait for the results. I think the best response to criticism is successful work. However, something I am concerned about is the way in which the President of the Government of Mr Sharpe, whom I have observed at this time, responds. When he presented his views, he kept saying that some of them said that, others said that, I did this I noticed that he was too much of a guide to public opinion, even when the mayor was in Kamnik. [[…]] There they named the stone library after the great poet, Kamnican, Frances Balantic. When this was voted on, two municipalities voted as co-founders, Kamnik and Command, and the name of the library was adopted. On the basis of a public opinion, when some fighters or some people took action against this name, he changed his mind and put the name back to the vote; that is, on the basis of public opinion and action by some groups. Well, fortunately, the saints in the Comanda congregation were smarter and left that name – because it seems to be named after the great Slovenian poet who, unfortunately, was on the other hand, the library in Kamnik is still large. So, his exposure to the influence of criticism and public opinion, it worries me, because we know that in politics or generally, if you have an attitude — one likes one, one dislikes one. If you are sure that the attitude is right and right, then you will not look down on those who say otherwise. I will also limit myself to the debate on three areas, where I am also a member and where I participated in the hearing. First of all, education. It is known that the candidate for Minister Jernej Pikalo has already been Minister, but this has also prompted me to question his functioning, the credibility of this operation. He apologized to me on the committee or even to those affected, but during his term of office on the day they appointed a new director when the new director was elected, two members of the board of the institution were replaced by an explanation that they did not represent the interests of the institution, and on the basis of some defamation without having the opportunity to defend themselves. This was posted on the government's website. They have only come to the conclusion that they are resolved, without explanation, without the possibility of arguing or explaining, as the Ombudsman has also found. Thus, such a way of political action and recruitment is unacceptable, even if the Minister himself was not literally involved, but was signed under it. I myself have already proposed in previous mandates to introduce the subject of civic education and ethics into secondary schools. Indeed, high school students themselves have expressed this desire and need, because we see that there is a democratic deficit in Slovenia, that young people do not participate, including others, in elections, that there is too little knowledge of the democratic system – institutions and so on – and that would be in place. Well, this is also supported by Dr Jernej Pikalo, the future minister, and I hope that this plan will also come true, but I hope that this subject will not become ideological with ideological lecturers who will direct the students, but not bring them knowledge and broad vision and preparation for democracy. I am also concerned about the attitude towards private education, because the party from which Dr Jernej Pikalo came was most opposed to the implementation of the constitutional decision concerning the financing of a private school which has a public programme, a private primary school, i.e. 100% financing of a compulsory programme. In Slovenia we only have 6 such private schools with different teaching doctrines or approaches, I do not know a purely professional term, which only enriches Slovenian space and that such opposition is not to say that they are deprived of financial resources. So these schools are attended by students of parents living in Slovenia, taxpayers of our citizens. Why should we distinguish between them, whether they go to a private school with a public program and a concession, or a state school? I am not talking about those additional programmes that private schools have, but about that publicly applicable programme that the state prescribes. Well, that's what I'm worried about. Such an incapacitatement. These schools are rich in Slovenian space, and there is more competitiveness in this way and not that we do not prevent it, but it is a minimum number, not only to put these schools at risk. I also hope that this coalition will fulfil its commitment to handicraft. In my previous mandate, I myself have endeavoured to adopt the Act of Conduct, and we know that handicraft is also an important member of our cultural heritage. There are fewer and fewer handicrafts, fewer and fewer of these skills and people who can pass this knowledge on to younger generations. Since their status is quite irregular, it is necessary to have a law, because this law interferes with education, culture, economy, finance, work, family and so on, it is a very demanding law and all these ministries have signed a commitment, together with the co-workers, to come forward with this law as soon as possible. I hope that this will happen, because these skills are precious and there is great damage if we do not protect them or if we do not transfer this knowledge to younger generations. Culture. The candidate himself made an effort to answer, the presentation was minimal. I'm worried about his status here. So, as the Minister of Culture does not have any established political status within the party, perhaps that is why such a minister is weaker. We know that in culture there is a chronic lack of money for different areas; from lacuna work to poorly paid artists, culturers, institutions that I am not talking about a cultural heritage that we are seriously neglecting, or we are not restoring, or giving, State monuments as we should. I therefore hope that he will still have so much support within the government that culture will also receive more funding for those essential projects and needs. Culture still marks us as a nation. I also hope that something will be done in the field of media law. I want, I expect that public RTV Slovenia will be an objective medium, that journalists will not be under personal pressure, that they will be able to report independently, and that the political influence of ruling parties here will not be the one, although it has always been in history, but in a democratic society I expect the objectivity of the media, and I hope that media legislation will also support this. And there's another problem I'd like to point out. Some media have warned me that AKOS has not issued a call for smaller frequencies in 12 years — despite many promises! Therefore, certain black foxes in Slovenia, where they would very much like to listen to certain media, cannot, even though some media broadcasts have been introduced on several occasions with the promise that they will soon be tendering, but not for 12 years. This has been a really long time for this issue to be resolved. Of course, the attitude towards cultural heritage and the commitment to handicrafts is also part of the law that is intended to be applied to handicrafts. I will also touch the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world. I was pleased with the presentation of the candidate for minister, because I know that he feels Slovenians in place and around the world, because this evicted bread has tried and is active in this area, and he knows him well. So he has a heart for Slovenia, for Slovenian culture. That's very good. He's also made a good point of what he's going to do. Well, as on the one hand, the minister must be caring, sensitive, in support of the Slovenians, on the other hand, and must be hard and demanding to ministers in other departments. Because the Minister for Slovenians himself does not have the power to be an interlocutor, for example, to ministers in neighbouring countries where Slovenian nationalities communities live. I have felt this a number of times, because the topics concerning our minorities are sensitive, and unfortunately there is always no fulfillment of what is required by law to the State in order to fulfil it. Here I expect more engagement from our ministers, stronger negotiations. I like to praise people, but I prefer to be friendly, and I fight and demand and expect something, but I think we have to protect our people here and they have to get what's rightfully theirs. So here I hope that, now our fellow Member, here will really push the other ministers, because this area is covered not only by the Minister for Slovenians, but also by education, including agriculture, education, foreign policy, all of this must be involved in covering this area. To the conclusion. New Slovenia remained in the opposition, although I am sure that even in the coalition we could do much, especially for the area of the economy, where I am concerned about what this government will do if it implements the ideas of the Left. I support working people, and I want working people to have the right conditions for work, to be properly paid and also properly taxed. If we're just going to take and share with those who don't try, then it's a wrong policy. I therefore hope that the policy of this government will, however, encourage the economy, because, last but not least, all other subsystems can operate. Now, if I make a little joke, the coalition will vote today, confirm the chips or cattle in Sharčev's barn – I apologize for the expression, but such an example has given itself that there is still livestock in the barn, of course livestock is worthy and also ministers. I want to say that such comparisons can also trigger different concerns, doubts and so on. I like funny people, but humor in all places is not the best place to be, so it will probably be necessary to be a little more careful here – of course, if the President of the Government did not think of the barn of Auggie. What does that mean, we know from Greek mythology. Because there was so much disorder and insurrection that Heracles had to run two rivers through the barn to clean it up. I hope this doesn't happen to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u63	He has the word Robert Polnar, to prepare Dusan Shisko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u64	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Life is full of endless absurdities that are so rude that they do not even try to arouse the impression of probability because they are real. We live in an open cynic time in which authorising winds have confused languages in Slovenia. There's nothing more to say. Each statement we make increases the existing one or starts a new misunderstanding. Before this irrational fact, we are completely powerless. The same words have many different meanings that we do not make at all. We know what we're saying, but we don't know what anyone else will hear about it. There is no way in which our words would be uniform or at least approximated to prevent radical misunderstandings. Let me just illustrate it with a simple fact. I watch and listen to non-fertilising rump and pump in relation to potential tax policy measures. At the same time, on 5 September the Government adopted a report by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia on the outstanding tax debt on 31 December 2017. A billion EUR 267 million is an outstanding debt, EUR 766 million of so-called active debt and EUR 501 million of potentially recoverable debt! For illustration, ladies and gentlemen, €766 million represents 92% of the total budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure in the financial year 2018. And that's an active unrecoverable debt! And then what? It's nobody's fault. This data remained at the level of purely benign statistical convenience. Neither obvious nor banal can help us. Someone always reverses the meaning of our definitions and programs. Neither the evidence nor the explanation help us. Always someone turns their content and purpose. It is not such a simple thought or such a simple desire that is supposed to become subversive just because we represent it. We've been asking questions about this in our programmes. In an easy and open way, we have explored simple facts and nothing more than we have done. The misunderstandings that have arisen as a result of this are the result of a position of a special kind in which we are conceived to be the only ones to blame. That is why it cannot reach dialogue. So our monologue is broken down into fragments equipped with an interpretation that accuses us. He's accusing us of being able to form a government. In Slovenia, all political life is crushed, transformed into stories and accidents, into the actions of different stakeholders, within which individuals compete for their own account. There are no other criteria and no other objectives, only low-value phrases appear to be a national hope in order to play the depth of policy and the importance of its role. This is the behavior of cynical and provincial self-sufficiency; one that is itself always and everywhere beginning and ending. This can only be countered by a transformation whose driving is the political will to answer the question that we want Slovenia. The answer, which combines a series of party responses with all their diversity; the response to pluralism of parliamentary democracy, its dynamics, its immediate modern history. Ladies and gentlemen! Slovenia as a political entity, one or the other, has a very long history. Slovenia, as a political entity, has existed much earlier than any of us who are present here today, have been born, and Slovenia, as a political entity, will exist much longer after we, who are present here today, have long been turned into dust and ashes. That is why Slovenia is much older and, above all, much more important than all of us together and each one of us individually. It is good to know, especially to be aware of the two greatest needs of our time today. The first biggest emergency of our moment today is the disinvestment of the puff. And the second greatest necessity of our moment today is downsizing prestige. Politics plays its role only when a laboratory of human acts in which nothing is repeated, where ideas are tested in an irreversible way, is inevitable and with foreseeable consequences. Planned and unplanned working together, simultaneously and unstoppable, that is our world. This is how we stay and achieve our goals. This is how we deal with the important puzzles of our existence and the working answers to them. That's how today's world works. To achieve this, we need to develop new ways to share the risks of modern time, not to destroy the ways we already have. Slovenia does not need to be a country where our individual aspirations are confused with our common well-being. Slovenia should be the country where one allows the other. We know that many will disagree with us. There is also a possibility that we will get on the nerves of many people, but this is legitimate in democratic society and, in fact, there is no problem if all these inconsistencies remain within the framework of a normal democratic debate. It is indeed something, ladies and gentlemen: it is written in the coalition contract, only with enough hatred to be read. Well, that's it. That's what I was going to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u65	The word is Dušan Šiško, next is Ferenc Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. A respected mandate-holder who could be in front of television, candidates for ministers, colleagues and colleagues! At my first performance here in this room, I said that unfortunately, I cannot support these governments. Unfortunately, it has proved that, despite the relatively strong support of the elections in the National Assembly, you do not have the support of a staff team, even for a few ministerial posts. I wonder what would happen if I won as many votes as I did in the presidential elections. As is known, your government will consist of most of the personnel from the previous session, and I cannot expect any more visible successes. These had four years of opportunity with President Cerar at the helm, which was full of honesty and legality, to make their predictions come true, but they did very little. As experienced people, they will certainly have a predominance over the news and – I am afraid – over you too, honourable Mr. Mandate-holder. When it comes to important things, the changes you have made since the first day of your career at the state level will not even help you with your gaming skills. Not to speak of it, there is an event of Mr Erjavac's multipractice hearing on the Defence Committee when he spoke about the issue of wages in the Slovenian Army. He said he was surprised that since the last time he was a defence minister, the salaries have been greatly reduced, if there were a thousand 200 euros at the time, and now there were 900 euros. Dear colleagues, Mr multipractice Minister has been responsible in all governments since then and there for such a truly terrible situation, especially at a time when the security of citizens is becoming increasingly questionable. That's why I really don't know how to wonder. This transfer is just a little bit more evidence of what kind of people you're going to rule with. Until you prove me wrong, you won't get my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u67	The word is Ferenc Horvath, to be prepared by Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, good day to you all! I'll get you some mints! The Group's position has already been presented by Mr Žiža and, of course, I also agree with him, but I would point to one fact, because there is a great difference between the Italian and Hungarian communities. In view of the fact that the Italian community lives in an area that is highly economically developed, our Hungarian community lives somehow in an area that is one of the most economically neglected for the rest of Slovenia. Someone will say that this question is not a question that concerns the national community so much, but I do not agree with this because I believe that the economic basis, that work, employment is the basis for each individual in our country to survive. Today, too, we have heard many times about economic growth in Slovenia, which I do not doubt, but despite this economic growth, unemployment remains around 15% at our end. Nevertheless, it is so high that many young people go to work in Austria, even as day migrants, that the situation was much worse. That is why I think and ask, at the same time as the future Minister for the Economy and all government representatives, that demographically endangered areas, like Pomurje, pay particular attention to employment, because if these spaces are going to be even more empty in the future, then I think that these regions are very poorly spelled out. If I look at it: I think that for more than 10 years I have not actually seen any major investments, where the country would also participate in at least this bilingual area, which I represent, that it would be. The second issue or other topic that I would like to touch is the topic of the Slovenians in exchange, especially of the Slovenians, because we have very good cooperation with them as the Hungarians, which is possible in the past few years, precisely because I think that the Slovenian government should also pay more attention to this issue and, above all, give a little more attention to it. I think that in the past we have demonstrated how we can work together very well in the region. I also appeal again to the government, as has already been said today, that this is not only a matter for the future minister, but indeed for the whole government. As Mr Sarec said, I agree with him that there will be a great deal of confidence, I will also add a lot of patience, as Mr Žiža also said, we are ready to participate actively in this, and I wish you all good and, of course, I wish you every success for future ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u69	Dr. Ange Logar has the word. It's Jože Lenart's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u70	Thank you, Chairman. The President of the Government is not in this Chamber, but here is the coordinator of the Government, Mr Mesec, so I think it is even more important that the message be transmitted. I admit that, for me, the introduction of the Prime Minister's presentation is always very important, a key event, indicating how the President of the Government will undertake these tasks. I don't know what it's like to be with you, but I've got his promise to me that he won't promise anything, because he doesn't have to promise to keep it, and that would be wrong. Now, under the line, this government will be successful because Mr Sarec will promise everything or do everything he has promised; and because he has not promised anything, the goal will be achieved. The question is whether we taxpayers will be satisfied with this promise. First word, two about this coalition. This coalition is not five plus one, this coalition is one plus five. We have one plus the movement of five stars that signed a coalition with a client of the Left to ensure that they can rule. Now, something has already been exposed, some of the entries in the agreement between the five parties, that is, between the movement of the five stars and the Luke Mesec, and I will point out the fifth article, which further underlines the subordinate role of you, the coalition – I do not know how you could sign this, but the subordinate role of you, the coalition to the Left. See, Article 5 states that the coalition undertakes to seek first agreement with Levica, only if it does not find it, will the government gain the right to seek potential support from other parliamentary groups. Don't give me a hard time, that's what your client's president signed in your article 5. Only when Mr Moon allows you to seek support from us will you obviously come to us and ask us if you are ready to support this. Maybe you'd like to remind me when you've all referred to public opinion. A public opinion survey was carried out in March 2018 on the leaders of the parties who submitted to the elections, this analysis was published here. The first parties were compared. They wrote for Mr Janša – a public opinion of a thousand correspondents –: determined, intelligent, capable. You didn't want him to be Prime Minister. Then Karl Erjavec, this one will lead our defense. People say it's ineffective. I don't know how the defense will be effective. Miro Cerar, champion of our foreign policy – according to people: indecisive, bad leader. The President of Parliament, in the opinion of the people, is incompetent. And the one who wrote the coalition contract, Mr. Moon: doesn't know the economy. This is a government in the opinion of people who, as you say, have 58% or 68% support and will dictate our future. Let's move on. What do the voters of the parties who are in this coalition and, according to Janja Slug, say about the government in Mladina that they like to read today, are very happy that the coalition is finally made up of people? I quote, “His cavalry is still history. He studies performances and rhetoric in dictatorships, and he is interested in how dictators manage to seduce people into crime with the help of benign politicians of moderation, who do not respond to them firmly enough." I wonder if there are benign politicians in this coalition? The ones you've been involved in the negotiations? You know the answer to that. There's a cross with the ministers, too. The people did not like them, they did not choose them, and Charec gave them the opportunity — third, fourth, fifth, to become ministers. Therefore, if, in Slovenia, someone is not a good Member in the opinion of the people, then, in the opinion of Mr Šarc, he is good enough for a minister. I don't know when the minister's been less than an MP, but look, that's right. And also Members of this coalition, especially those who have sat on one committee, are great pearls, forgive the expression. There's an incompetent candidate ahead of you, an inadequate candidate, yet you vote for him. You lack the European values and the way in which you work politically. A very simple example: see when an incompetent or inadequate candidate has run for office on the European Commission, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, was rejected by MEPs at the hearing. At the hearing, but not at the confirmation, then they're withdrawing it due to inadequacy. There will be a great deal of work to be done here at your own discretion. You'll tell me, Logar, you're too negative. Hold it! See, the leader of one party's parliamentary group comes from Positive Slovenia, including the future leader of the parliamentary group from the same party. Desus in coalition with Positive Slovenia in the company Levica, or what is your name – left block? The leader of the LMŠ Group comes from Positive Slovenia, the new informal leader of the SMC of the parliamentary group comes from Positive Slovenia; in short, the President of the Government comes from Positive Slovenia, the positive messages themselves. Only the coalition is purely negative, excuse me. Explain to me – those who supported in the previous reference the report of the Commission of Inquiry on Abuses in the Banking System, where it was clearly stated what should be changed in criminal law. When you and New Slovenia negotiated the coalition, you had three articles of the coalition agreement amending the Criminal Procedure Act – what is necessarily needed by the criminal procedure – and after talking with the coalition to the super-coalist party Levits, that was excluded from the coalition contract. Why? Tell me why! Why are you afraid of pursuing banking crime and even writing down the fact that first of all you will do a study on the effectiveness of economic crime prosecution and this banking corruption – I am telling you now that the effectiveness of prosecution is very poor – and then even further to check the appropriateness of the adapted legislation, in particular in order to reduce the scope of criminal offences. So, say, money laundering will decreminate that it's no longer a crime and you'll say, look, we're great, there's no crime, there's no problem with prosecution. But there's something wrong with this. The story finally cleared up, now we have a homogeneous left-hand government. This homogeneous left-hand government was allowed by Mr Cerar, Mrs Bratušek, Karl Erjavec, Mr Mesec – I have forgotten someone else – Mr Židan. Remember those names! Remember these names, because if you are satisfied with their work, you will elect them again in the next term, but if you do not, I say again, remember these names and these parties and maybe consider changing the option – the right options. For it must be remembered: in fact, left-wing men have about as capable of staff as they are now for a few more governments. To conclude with a comment that I read on one of the online portals under the news of the formation of this government, he says: "This government will work for a small man – the one from Murgel."
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u71	The word is Jože Lenart. Let's get the mags ready. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u72	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Today we confirm the 13th government, 16 ministers and ministers led by the Prime Minister of the Government of Marjan Šarc and managed by the largest first institution in the country – the government; a government that combines from economic operators as a foundation for development to all stakeholders of the necessary social upgrades, providing us with security, confidence and universal prosperity. In the economy from which I come, the business plan, which covers all business functions from the staffing, purchasing, production, sales, investment, finance and IT, provides data for decision-making on business strategies for employees, business partners with a wider environment as well as owners. I cannot imagine that the business plan could be put in place before all business leaders are appointed. It is said that then a yield, profit, cash flow with some common responsibility is determined. I also see a future government that will have to put in place a strategy for the governance and management of the country with the good and prudent cooperation of all ministries. Thus, I am talking about the preparation and adoption of the budget of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. At the hearing of the ministers, I reflected on the question to the candidate of the Minister of Finance, which was somehow as follows: Tell us how much debt Slovenia will reduce in 2019-2022. Exactly in numbers, please – I don't know if it was meant in decimals. The government will be able to give us the set objectives of debt reduction in the preparation of a strategic document, taking into account all the known foundations, the conditions of the expected trends, which include thousands of impacts both in the domestic and global economic and political environment. All these influences will be constantly changing. Like we like to say, if Germany sneezes, it's too cold in here. It sneezes a little or a little hard, once or twice, and we certainly cannot know it today. It is therefore very important how the government will be able to respond quickly and properly to all of this and prepare preventively for all the sneezing. This will be a successful government for me. Last night, the 19th marathon of the 42nd was held in Montenegro, Koroška, for the benefit of a small marathon knight, Bogomir Dolenc. The President of the State is also the sponsor of this running event. Colleagues and colleagues, this is the persistence that the government will need and we will need in the future. Last night I symbolically ran 48 laps with Bogomir Dolence from 105. Your Honor, for 48 months of government! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u73	The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Gregor Perič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members, welcome! In recent weeks, as well as in the course of today's debate, there has been repeated doubts about the existence and legitimacy of the minority government. While I believe that the minority government can actually ensure a higher degree of democraticism and transparency in its operations, the implementation of key reforms requires a broader consensus, which will not be guaranteed a priori. As a right that has dealt with the field of human rights for a number of years, I am also pleased that so far, with all the concerns about the new government, in fact, there have been no clear doubts about its ability to guarantee human rights and fundamental freedoms to all Slovenes and Slovenes, irrespective of race, sex, political affiliation or any other personal situation. There is no doubt that there can be any debate on the future of our country without debate on its economic foundations. Today and in the past week, when the candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers were being questioned, we have heard a lot about various economic and infrastructure projects and economic indicators. It is just as important to remember what our task is to build on these foundations. We have written in the Constitution that Slovenia is a social state. Our task and the task of every government is to preserve and develop it. At the hearings, Mr Šarc's team ensured that this objective would be achieved by working towards the highest possible level of intergenerational co-existence, stable and development-oriented public finances, by raising the quality of all levels of free public education, with all accessible and well-managed and adequately funded public health, by creating conditions for the technological and developmental breakthrough of Slovenia while preserving Slovenia's natural wealth and respect for human rights. As a social democrat, I support the government with such objectives, and I wish it much success in its work. Although I am aware that it will not be easy for her and that, contrary to the written rule of developed democratic societies, she will not enjoy the first 100 days of peace. In view of today's debate, it is almost entirely clear that it will not enjoy even the first day of peace. I am aware that Members and Members who do not agree with the objectives of the coalition agreement and who do not trust ministerial candidates and candidates cannot support the new governments. However, I hope that in the future we will be able and will be able to overcome the differences that divide us into key and important issues, to find the best solutions and to step together into the well-being of citizens and citizens and to justify the trust they have shown us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u75	The word is Gregor Perič, followed by Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia needs, in particular, an effective government, and in positions of responsible, competent and honest people; one that will act in an integrated and state-based manner. We in the Modern Centre Party believe that this government and its mandate-holder have in particular a serious intention to implement such a policy. We are all aware of what it means to expose ourselves in the policy area, how the media and the general public pay attention to a number of aspects, sometimes justified and sometimes not. As a political scientist, as a young man with a political experience at the local level, I especially see the latter. In the last four years, Slovenia has progressed – either we admit it or we do not want to admit it. It has progressed in many areas. The social climate has changed, there has been more optimism, the economy has become firmly entrenched, the blood count of our public finances shows a completely different image, and we can no doubt say that Slovenia has regained economic independence. It was this prediction four years ago, a prediction that economic independence would not be possible, that went into many people's noses. Our political space simply did not believe that we could manage matters alone without some foreign intervention or assistance. So we did it. And we've done a lot of things. Looking at purely graphic: GDP per capita has increased, employment rates have increased, the number of unemployed people has decreased, the number of unemployed young people has practically split, the minimum wage has risen, the average monthly net salary has gone up, the average age pension has risen, the net external debt has decreased and the level of risk of poverty has fallen. We are also today and will hear a number of critical assessments of this government, which has not even begun its work. For the sake of all Slovenians and Slovenians and our countries, I sincerely wish that the latest assessments would prove to be without the right basis and, above all, miss. I also wish that, at the end of the mandate of the new ministerial team, we could once again say that we live better than we did four years ago. We have offered the best staff, a combination of experienced politicians and young energy with great potential in the Modern Centre for Ministries for which we take responsibility. In the European Union and among state leaders around the world, Dr Miro Cerar is recognized and valued as a prudent and reliable partner who, as a candidate for the Minister of Foreign Affairs as priorities, has highlighted that Slovenia remains in the core and most related part of the European Union, which advocates the stability and further integration of the Western Balkan countries in the European Union, otherwise another force will do so, and places great emphasis on economic diplomacy by expanding the network and the number of economic attachés. Zdravka Počvalska, who will remain in the history of independent Slovenia as an economic minister, who has brought in the first real foreign direct investment, has many new jobs and has launched important processes, particularly in the field of tourism, where Slovenia records a record for the record. Jureta Lebna, who, despite her youth, is an experienced politician, a two-time secretary of state, a successful project manager with the highest level of projects that will immediately address issues of accumulation of waste packaging as the Minister of Environment and Space, and will focus on the complete elimination of plastic bags. It will advocate for the housing problem of young people and will introduce a partnership with non-governmental organisations. We proposed mag. Ksenija Klampfer, an active and well-known expert in the public administration system, experienced in the management of sensitive processes, which in the broad field of work of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will advocate a more appropriate way of calculating the minimum wage, to fight leniency, better conditions for young people to create families, different criminal regulations in cases of dismissal of pregnant women, coordination of pensions and the establishment of a demographic fund. This government is no doubt different from the previous one, has multiple partners, is ideally wider and more written, while at the same time it is given to Slovenia in an inappropriately better condition than it was four years ago. In the SMC, as part of the core coalition, we will be its responsible and constructive work and the SMC will be a guarantee that there will be no reckless and even less extreme positions in it. We will invest maximum energy and support in its successful operation. In the government, in the coalition, with partners and with the opposition we want to be and we will be in the SMC engine and the lift of cooperation, because in this we are bound by the spirit of our constitution and responsibility towards our people and our country. Only if we all do what we can and must do will we be able to live better. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with the desire that future ministers and ministers and the distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarec, be successful in their work and run this government well. Thank you so much and good luck to everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u77	The word is by Luka Mesec, followed by Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u78	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! On the right, we listen to a number of observations from the minority government, which is most likely to be elected today, despite the fact that we will refrain from appointing ministers in Levica, because we are not convinced and we are concerned, above all, about one fact: that after the attacks by economists and not economicists as entrepreneurs, but as interest groups that want to influence politics and the future coalition, the parties of the five have begun to express their own reservations to the implementation of the coalition treaties and have also distanced themselves from them on some points. We are very clear here in Levica; what is agreed is to stick to it, and as long as the minority government of the agreed state remains, you can count on our support for it when you need it. However, if the policy as we have seen in the past years continues, it is said that the government is being set up, and then everything follows some inertia, but each minister works in his own way in accordance with some of the interests that exist around him when he sits on the ministerial chair, we will not be able to tolerate such governments for a long time and we can become the classic opposition that we were in the previous term. This is a warning to the central government, because what we heard at some of the meetings, some of the hearings, is worrying. Now for the second one. If I respond to the right opposition, why did we essentially tolerate the Central Coalition as a opposition party in Levica? You can tell her a lot, but there is a fact that, unlike you, they adhere to some civilisational standards, as far as discussing democratic society, media space, public debates. On their part, let's say we don't follow things like this, as if we were looking at your Nova 24 portal. Let's say there was a 2. 9th published article that in an Italian city, I think Padova, a Muslim jihadka, was stabbing people. The Italian portal La Repubblica said she was Polish. And this is just one example of how you deliberately and persistently fabricate the truth in order to smooch people. Or another case. Three days ago, the same portal published an article by the well-known smoker Bernard Brščič, who writes that they are walking around European cities, quote, “Muslims, Feminist Glasses, Various Sex Exterminators, Gays, Sodomites, Cadimites; all that we understand today under the euphemism of the LGBT community”. Also, your President, Janez Janša, whom you say is intelligent, capable and well-groomed, as Ange Logar said earlier, literally refers to this man. Among other things, in that speech he had the last time on the so-called family day of SDS. But maybe the next time you ask yourself why you want the power you want to get out of your hands, after these elections, you need to look at yourself first and ask yourself what it is that you're doing wrong, that no one wants to cooperate with you. In Levica, of course, we supported the government, although it is not optimal, especially because the alternative that you represent is unreliable and in conflict with all the civilisation standards that you also advocate in language.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u79	Marijan Pojbič has the word to prepare Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, I quote, “time for a new generation”. This was also the address of the LMŠ electoral programme, with which Marjan Šarec convinced the electorate and the electorate. They were in many positions, they had the opportunity, but they did nothing or very little, Sarec assessed at the LMŠ program congress on 14 April this year. They created a bank hole, built expensive projects, provided credits with beautiful eyes, wrote legislation that allows for play in all areas, brought the country almost to a colleague, said Sarec about SD, Desus and SMC clients. It's about these clients he's now joining the coalition with. Your Honor! So the old faces that want to create a new policy, this simple Slovenian people can no longer inherit, and these are with names and names: Miro Cerar, Zdravko Restoršek, Jure Leben, Andreja Katič, Alenka Bratušek, Karl Erjavec, these are and so will be recycled ministers. Then the unsuccessful candidates to be given a job will be state secretaries: Jan Škoberne, Anja Kopač Mrak, Martina Vuk, Peter Wilfan, Uroš Prikl, Jernej Stromajer and Alenka Bratušek and Karl Erjavec, who have not been elected to the National Assembly at all, and are now among those key people in ministerial cities for Marjana Šarca. Dear citizens and citizens! Today we will get a government, with a small correction that has undermined the will of the people. It has led the country into a situation where almost a third of people live below the poverty line. The government, which, with its attitude towards pensions, has led the vast majority of pensioners to receive 500 or much less pensions for 40 years. A government that will continue to import economic migrants, and an account for them was paid by a poor Slovenian nation. A government that places economic migrants on the Fat Rtice instead of Slovenian children who have never seen the sea. A government that will continue to drive intelligence out of the country, young doctors and other intelligence. The government, which almost destroyed agriculture, health care, unacceptable waiting types, the shortage of exhausted nurses and could even list. On the other hand, the government, which, due to the strong interconnection of the policies of certain parties with a deep state, is very likely to support corruption, theft, criminals and all who live at the expense of the impoverished Slovenian people as small gods. Dear Slovenes and Slovenians! I hope you understand why I am not only a Member, but also a very sad citizen in this event and, of course, I will vote against such a government myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u81	The word is Jernej Vrtovec, followed by Franz Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u82	Dear colleagues, good day again! In the introduction, the President of the Government said that we were not concrete and that our candidates for ministers were not concrete. Well, on the one hand, it's nice that the Prime Minister admitted it. But you know what? If there is nothing to stand for, then it falls on everything, and it happens to you, because there is nothing to say about coordination, respect, dialogue and so on, and there is absolutely nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing. You know, for the first time in this country, I'm really scared. No, I'm really scared! For the first time, because it is not clear what awaits us because of the willingness of the coalition's work and the first coalition party, to accept rotten compromises only for our own survival with a radical left. And secondly, because one of the committee meetings at the hearings, at the hearing, was held in such a manner that there was no critical judgment among yourselves. Which is what the Prime Minister himself showed when he suspended one of the incompetent candidates himself, but you voted for him two days earlier. And from your mouth, both in the hearings and today in the opening presentation by the President of the Government, we have heard nothing about what the priorities of this government could be, what the objectives of this government are. It's the same as talking, we're going to cut the waiting lines. Yeah, what helps us if we work hard and cut back if we don't eventually shorten them? No! No! We're going to shorten the waiting lines. We should talk. Just trying, it'll be a lot less. I'm also afraid because the only tangible thing that is a coalition contract is that you say it's premature so you can trust it so you can read it – why do we have it? But if we read it, it can be not only an economic fear, but all people because it means higher taxes because it means less quality of life for citizens and citizens. On the part of New Slovenia, this ruling coalition will have the opportunity to ask us to support good proposals, an opportunity to support our good proposals. And this will be something soon, at one of the next extraordinary meetings this will be an opportunity to support the New Slovenia package of measures to encourage the economy. At that time, we will actually see how much this coalition cares about coordination, cooperation, or today all were empty words. Some ministerial candidates were fine and proved to be in the hearings and we also supported them in Novi Slovenije. Some, like Mr. Kodelja, do not know what they are going into, and they wear too many shoes. Therefore, I repeat, as many of you have said today in your answers: “Happy Slovenia!” But you know why? Because she's going to need happiness under this ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u83	The word is by Franz Kramar, and it's his turn to be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we will confirm the 13th Slovenian government, perhaps I will be a bit of a local patriotic, because I have moved from the mayor's office to the state MP, and in my mayoral mandates I have always encountered problems of the local community against the country. Mainly because I come from Upper Gorenjska and Zgornjek, of course, we expect a lot from this government. I'll make it concrete. The first and most basic thing, of course, is a bleze bypass. Those who go on vacation to Bohinj or to Bled are faced with this problem, a three-hour standstill; it is said that you need from Ljubljana to Bohinj normally 45 minutes, in the summer months you need 3 hours to 4 hours. This blemish is promised 50 years and I think it is really time for this mandate to come under this government as well. The second burning problem, of course, is the national Triglav Park. Nationally, because it is a national, ours, of all Slovenians, not just us who live there. In 2010, an amendment to the Triglav National Park Act was adopted. In order to convince the locals, the provisions of Articles 10 and 11 of this Act have been adopted which discuss the co-financing of projects within the national park and apply to all park municipalities. Well, from 2010 to today, these park congregations have not received even the euro. In summary, the Municipality of Ljubljana has received 90 million since 2010 as the capital city and in accordance with the Main City Act. We who live in this area have not received anything from the title of Triglav National Park. The third thing we expect from the country is to help people who have experienced a natural disaster with a materiel, with a skullr at home. The fact is that it is a natural and great disaster, that wood is sold for 50% cheaper than it is on the market, and that people are given decisions and penalties if they do not cut it, and thus lose a great deal of material value. Here I expect this new government to regulate this systemically and to mitigate this natural disaster. The last thing I expect from this government, which is also expected by all other congregations, is the legal average. Over the years, even as a result of the crisis, congregations have been given a lower average than is prescribed by law. I expect this new government, which, of course, I wish it good work and much success to listen to local problems many times too, because I think that new and new problems are emerging in the local centres and people, particularly the mayors, cannot solve these problems without the help of the state. Once again, I will personally support the government because I think it gives hope for everything I've said. Of course, I wish her a happy and successful way!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u85	The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, behind him Branko Simonovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! My debate will be based on what actually exists, which is a coalition treaty or coalition agreement and, on the other hand, what the candidates said in the so-called hearings. If we are talking about foreign policy, which is one of the state-of-the-art areas in Slovenia, then I can say that we have not received adequate answers at the hearing of future Minister Cerar, and on the other hand we have not received an answer to what our national interests actually are and how foreign policy will work for these national interests. There is neither a national interest nor an external policy strategy to be balanced. In doing so, the candidate did not answer either the question of who or which country this balanced policy would give greater importance – if we were talking only about UN members, for example. Whether it will be the United States of America, the United Kingdom and France, or whether it will be China and Russia. We may not be able to give everyone the same meaning, or we may not treat them the same way. Similarly, our vision of the future of Europe is similar. Which countries will we focus more on: or on the Visegrad Group, the Mediterranean countries, Austria, Germany? In short, there is actually no strategy in this area and there is no policy to ensure the realization of Slovenia's national interests. The question is how this foreign policy will work with Croatia. It is difficult that those people who have cooked up their problems and, as a result, have become entangled, this is, of course, the previous government, in fact, solved these problems, although this is of some existential importance for Slovenia alone. The issue of both the financial field and the economic field and the economic diplomacy mentioned by the policy of this future government is, of course, economic cooperation. However, economic cooperation on the forecast of these taxes under the coalition agreement will, of course, be difficult and new investments will indeed not be possible. What is actually written is, of course, contrary to strengthening Slovenia's competitive position, so that the economy can easily receive new capital; or domestic or foreign capital. New taxes at these levels, which are also defined in the Coalition Treaty, will simply increase poverty. The capital, the money, the wealth will not be in Slovenia, but it will go abroad, and here we will have problems with the financing itself if you want, even social policies. What Member of the Moon has basically announced and given the first warning to the five parties that you are not advocating for a tax policy under the coalition agreement is symptomatic; it is symptomatic that before we actually voted on the new government, five coalition parties have already received the first warning that you do not strictly adhere to what is written. Of course, the question is what will happen in the future. Probably the kind of stuff that we're having a hard time thinking about today or imagining. Of course, such governments, which in advance also show instability, which will be economically inefficient, financially inefficient and, of course, also socially insufferable, cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u87	The word is Branko Simonovich. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Today we will get the 13th Slovenian government; a government that puts human rights and social rights first. Since I come from Desus, who represents the rights of the older generation, I must say that I am pleased that we have succeeded in writing down all the vital interests of our party and thus the older population. In response to all those debaters who are critical both to the government team and to the coalition agreement, let me reiterate that it is most important for aside Desus to correct the injustices of all pensioners who have occurred due to the economic crisis, so that we gradually raise the minimum pensions above the poverty threshold so that widow's pensions will also rise. In order to raise the pensioner’s rate by 5 percentage points, we are already basically providing higher pensions. We will also continue to pay the annual allowance, or as many pensioners call it – a regression for all pensioners. We hope that we will also regulate the area of long-term care and provide more cities in pension homes, and not least, we will finally establish a demographic fund that will guarantee long-term sustainability of the pension system, which has long been our commitment to younger generations. This coalition's probably gonna be tough. However, since no party in it prevails and since the President of the Government has already proved himself to be a prudent and sober person in the negotiations, I believe that, after 10 years, at least one government can last for four years, the entire mandate is said. Desus will be a strong partner and always help the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u89	The word has magic. Branko Grimes, get the mag ready. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u90	Good-bye! Indeed, the government that is being set up today is something remarkable, proving that there is measurable economic development damage even before it comes — just because of the story of its creation. This story proves that Slovenia has an inadequate proportional electoral system for Slovenia in which democracy, democratic principles, the clearly expressed will of voters can be played, and a coalition that is accompanied only by money, which is the product of only shopping, not some plans, actions or goals. What this coalition will obviously cause is the economic breakdown of Slovenia. These are already the first forecasts of new taxes already taxed on Slovenia, which is why the most successful entrepreneurs decide to leave. Successful entrepreneurs who grow out of nothing, who create a world brand with their work, are idols in all the developed countries of the world. With us, a scoundrel who has never done anything smart in his life can allow himself to offend them, and one can announce to all entrepreneurs with the bayonets “steral” to the sea. It's a hate speech. What's going to happen? No, for all couples want money and the goal of multiple votes; if not by creating, favouring lazy people and by oppressing those who are capable of creating something, who want to do well, to do well, to be taxed excessively, to suppress them, and, on the other hand, by importing illegal migrants. Your coalition contract says you'll take care of those NGOs like, say, the Peace Institute, and then this happens. I just posted two documents online today proving how these NGOs are based on LGBTQ ideology, or, say, this type of Peace Institute involved in the illegal transport of people to Slovenia, smuggling illegal migrants. What they are allowing, official signs tell them when people interviewed by the police say that they have been trained by representatives of Slovenian NGOs down in Bosnia, explaining how they should behave, where they go and especially deserve a quote: “In case the Slovenian police do not accept an application for international protection, let them know immediately that they will act against the police.” Are we still the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen? It says here, it's an official note, you can look at it online. And something like that would have happened. It is said that Slovenia, because of the leftist government, which will be a refugee in this part of the world – all the other governments around us are right-wing – will become a promised country for migrants. And, of course, it is necessary to collect taxes, which is why it is necessary to forget about the Slovenian man, which you are already predicting in your actions, and this is why it is happening that the unacceptable policy of the current government, which is currently building 7,000 cities for illegal migrants, will certainly continue, while 7,000 Slovenian pensioners are in vain waiting to be admitted to their homes for pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all Slovenia, first of all it is necessary for Slovenian citizens, then you can only help someone else within the framework of what is possible. Only such a government would deserve support. And of course, I absolutely disagree with those of my colleagues who used that term to make it five plus one. What five plus one?Oh, my God! It's gonna be a sextet. A advertised sextet, accompanied by a desire for money, in which, of course, the first voice will be left. Free on Orwell, if I paraphrase the candidate for Prime Minister of the Government, because Orwell wrote in the Animal Farm: "All animals are equal, only pigs are even more equal than others." And that's what your signed contract says, which says they reported to the Prime Minister of the Government and Levi. Yeah, you know who the boss is! Of course, I will not accept this and I will not support it, not today, not ever.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u91	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. For her, Bostian Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, nice greetings from my colleague and colleague! As much negativity as we have heard in the debates on the neighbouring side today, I am truly saddened. There's fear, there's sadness, and I don't know what else. At the end of the day, you had the opportunity to form a government, but that didn't happen. I will quote at the beginning of the president of your party: “I have invited all parties to discuss whether it is possible to form a coalition.” But he forgot to tell us when these conversations were or when he invited them to talk. 3. 6. 2018 was the election. We got a call from 12. Seven. I don't know. We can look up in the air for 30 days and wait. It certainly seems to me that it is right that Marjan Sarec woke up, that he began to form a coalition and the negotiations on his side were long, tiring, and eventually the light of the world was lit, or at the end of the tunnel, with the election of the President of the Government and also today's meeting, at which we will confirm the 13th Ministerial Team. Of course, the undeniable fact is that this government is facing difficult and difficult times, because for the first time in the history of Slovenia we are facing a minority government. In the coming months, there will be a great deal of integration, finding solutions and making smart and thoughtful decisions so that the commitments of the Coalition Treaty will be met. In doing so, I will certainly keep an eye on the need to work for the good of the people. Some of the obligations under the Coalition Treaty must take place now and immediately. This is a solution to the reduction of waiting hours in health care. The candidate for the Minister of Health said at the hearing that it is possible to shorten waiting periods within a year to zero or within the postings. I hope that with all measures, such as governance, responsibility, governance, the reduction of corruption, it will also achieve this and, with its perseverance and strength, that people will not die in waiting lines. Serious and rapid approaches are certainly urgent. This favourable economic growth that we have seen in recent years is encouraging. Also, the predictions of new jobs give me optimism. In particular, I would like to see that there are good conditions for young people to work after school, so that they will not go abroad, so that they will be provided with us for adequate payment. The minimum wage is certainly a major handicap, and it is right that the coalition contract specifies that it will increase. In the area of public administration, the future minister is facing difficult and difficult negotiations with all trade unions. Also in the area of infrastructure, which is particularly in rural areas in a very insurmountable situation, my commitment to this mandate will be immeasurable. In particular, because individual projects are being phased out of the mandate. However, since I come from the fourth constituency, the seventh constituency, I must mention the road through Lovrenc, as well as the demolition of bridges and viaducts to which we have witnessed in the media lately, it gives me the impression that there will be a real analysis of what bridges we have in Slovenia. We also read in the media today that in Maribor bridges are in bad condition, reconstructions are urgently needed. In this place, we would also point out our bridge over Drava, which connects Ruše and Selnica, is crucial, and this bridge is in very bad condition. The construction of the bridge itself is not so bad, but it is a fence; and the holes are frightening, so it will also be my priority in this mandate. The Coalition Treaty also covers important solutions in the area of older, future pensioners in raising the retirement rate. There are many of these decisions, or a lot of them written in the coalition contract, we will certainly keep an eye on them; I will certainly keep a close eye on the ministerial team and their decisions, and I will draw attention to possible errors which, in my opinion, will have a negative impact on citizens and citizens, and in society we must certainly build trust and restore the necessary dignity to people. I absolutely expect constructive, interconnective action without stumbling and insults, because only then will Slovenia fully guarantee freedom, equal opportunity, security and prosperity for all of us. 13. I wish the government a great deal of tolerance, cooperation, integration for the welfare of citizens and citizens. And finally, as in the introduction to the explanation, the President of the Government said: Now is the time to start working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u93	The word is given by Boštjan Koražija, followed by Susanna Pretty Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, lovely greetings to all! I am encouraged by the statements made by the candidate for the Minister of Public Administration, which I heard at the hearing on the internal committee, that the public sector is providing the necessary services and creating the added value with its work; that you will start negotiations with the unions immediately; that Slovenia, with a slightly less than a fifth share of employees in the public sector, is strong under the European Union as regards all employment in the country; that the public sector has made its contribution to solving the crisis; that you will support the public sector; that you will support the decentralisation and regionalisation of Slovenia; and that you will also agree with my proposal that I have submitted to you to move the ministries' headquarters to more Slovenian cities or regions, and that you will gain regionalisation in this way, and that the employment structure will increase or improve. Now, let me tell you one example: we have to take urgent action in Slovenia or start to work concretely, but it relates to my problem because I drive every day by train from Ptuj to Ljubljana. Let me explain; the last train from Ljubljana to Ptuj is at 5:15 p.m. Thus, if we are to think seriously towards decentralisation and regionalisation, we need to regulate infrastructure or public transport. Second thing, I can show you this, another thing that is very interesting if I take the train from Ljubljana to Maribor and get off in Rača, say at 10:27 p.m., at 10:26 p.m., it says, one minute earlier, it takes the train to Ptuj. So it's basically one minute. But the point is that really things are not settled and it will need to be reviewed, analysed and settled, because this is also consequently linked to this. Many people I have met, including tourists on the road, would like to travel to these peripheral regions of Slovenia, but they cannot because they do not actually have a train or they do not get public transport. All other transports are too expensive to take, or whatever, to get there. This is a banal case, because there are a lot of them, but if we go together, we'll save them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u95	The word comes from Susanna Pretty Šimenka, after which she gets the word Aljaž Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, welcome! All other transports are too expensive to take, or whatever, to get there. This is a banal case, because there are many; but if we go together, we will save them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u97	The word is "Suzana" Beautiful Chimenka. She gets the word Aljaž Kovačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, welcome! The elections on June 3rd showed the misery of our electoral system. And what's even more interesting, we who are sitting in the National Assembly are representatives of the people, we came to the National Assembly with the votes of the electorate behind us. But when you start playing a little math game and counting those votes, you get a very interesting picture that reflects the situation of our electoral system. Specifically, the so-called five parties called the reduced coalition gathered – you as Members, your votes – 17 thousand 300 votes less than the Slovenian Democratic Party. This means that five parties gathered 17 thousand 300 votes less than the Slovenian Democratic Party alone. But you have a significantly greater power in the National Assembly, you have 43 members, and that also means 43 votes; unlike us, which is only 25 of us. If we add your partner Levico to this and look at the entire coalition of six parties, we see that you have collected only 700 votes more together and you have 52 votes in the National Assembly. And you represent the people in Slovenia! Of course, this is not negligible. Every member of your Parliament shall vote. And we are voting for laws that have consequences for our citizens for the Slovenian economy. And here is one really scary situation that we have in Slovenia and is really the anomaly of our electoral system. More than likely, we will get one interested government, a government of six parties, which has merged only because of the individual interests and interests of those who do not allow an alternative. It is also worrying that there are seven such ministerial candidates who have not received the support of the people in their constituency. And people said, "Here, fine, they won't be." And now it's very easy for them to come back as ministers. This means that some have not even collected 400 plus votes to be elected to Parliament. And now they come back as ministers and this is something completely normal for you. And the will of the people is taken into account. Now we're wondering why people don't go to elections. People have voted, people have somehow wanted to do their will, but unfortunately the situation is that real picture and what is reflected in the National Assembly. Coalition. I have to say from the very beginning, you're acting completely out of line. I've been to a few hearings, and I have to say that one minister says it, another minister says it's different. Specific examples – SDH. The Minister of Economy somehow estimates that it is better that this falls under his department; the Minister of Finance says - no, this should remain under my auspices; the Minister of Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion says - regional development must come under my own resources; the Minister of Economy says - no, it is fine as it is, regional development must be here. I don't know how you're going to coordinate with each other if you're already completely out of line at the start. And now it's going to be six different clients. It's a coalition deal. It's full of different Flossules: we'll study, we'll think about it, we'll continue our efforts, we'll open the debate, we'll analyze it, and so on. But anyway, she's already raised a lot of dust in the beginning. After all, we have also heard that the coalition treaty must be, whether we execute it or not, then it is a matter of individual parties. But I don't know why you even have it if you're not going to fulfill it. The Left, however, made it clear that they were demanding that it be carried out. It is very critical, however, that it raised the whole Slovenian economy on its feet. Mr Šarec initially said that he wanted the government to have contact with reality; but what is the current reality? You haven't started yet, but the economists have already started collecting signatures for the petition for enterprise Slovenia. By yesterday, 4 000 700 signatures of citizens and around 600 entrepreneurs had been collected. Why? A response to your coalition contract, a response to the program you've made along with your partner, Levica. That's the response. Indeed, this contract contains disproportionate and irregular decisions, a number of new tax burdens on the economy and citizens; and from the cultural euro, the health centre, the minimum profit tax of 5%, all capital revenues will be put in the income and could also be listed. And rightly, citizens and the economy are afraid. By the candidate of the Minister of Finance, we have heard that GDP is a key growth. We know all who contribute most – exporters, the economy. And what do you do? It is those who create the most to bring into this cash register that you want to hit your head in some way. How can we simply understand your logic?Oh, my God! Unfortunately, more than obviously, this treaty is taking us back in one direction, in one period from which we have already gone in the past. Margaret Thatcher: The problem with socialism is that once it runs out of foreign money. I think that's the key to what you should be aware of in this coalition of six. Of course, there is no need to stress, I will vote against such a government because you have a harmful coalition treaty; I will vote against it also because it was the decision of the electorate and voters in the June 3rd elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u99	The word is Aljaž Kovacic. Get Jani Prednik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! Regardless of what subject we are discussing in the National Assembly, the same words always revolve around — who is the coalition, who is not the coalition, who is the opposition. After the word is gone, there's already a new word of supercolation, after it's twisted, the words about Luke the Moon are used to make him premier. Then we hear the expression of the deep state again and finally the expression that the electoral system is to blame. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, I think you have the greatest tradition besides the Social Democrats, and you have not changed the electoral system. When I was running for office, I knew the electoral system, and I went to this game with clear goals. Now to refer to the result that you failed to form a government, the electoral system, does not seem fair to me; especially for two reasons, because you formed a government with this electoral system in 2004, even in 2012, when even in your opinion you should not have achieved the majority victory. Then I'd touch the hearings. I myself am pleased with the questions I have asked the candidates for ministers, especially regarding young people. I got a lot of answers about traineeships and housing issues. I am pleased that the candidate for the Minister of Education and the candidate for the Minister of Social Affairs know the problems. I think if you know the problems, you'll be better able to solve them. I'm also pleased with Mr. Cerar. For the past four years, he has been the Prime Minister of the Government, and I think he will face the management of the foreign ministry well. I also asked Dr. Pikala about the local problem of Ormož Gymnasium, and I was also surprised that he knew local problems; and he ensured that these problems would also be resolved. The debate raised the question of what country we want to live in. I don't want to live in a country where it's customary to attack the media, minorities, NGOs and otherwise in general. Such a country is a neighbour and I do not want the same things to happen to us and to be dealt with by various commissions and European parliaments. We must strive to ensure that our society is characterized by values such as equality, democracy, respect for law and human dignity. We have before us a list of candidates and candidates for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Being a minister is not easy, and suddenly you become responsible and also guilty of everything bad that's going on in the country. There are many challenges that must be addressed with great perseverance, cooperation and patience. We must never forget, however, that there are people in distress among us who are often too modest to raise their voice about the problems they face. Above all, we need to help them by their actions. Among them are many young people, who are sometimes forgotten by the authorities, and we must not put them on the verge of political priorities. People rightly expect decisive movements in areas such as health, social affairs, education, culture and so on. There's been a lot of hesitation that doesn't benefit anyone. It will certainly not be easy, but hard work will also bring positive results, which will be felt mainly by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I want a great deal of courage and determination to respect the candidates in taking on such responsible tasks! However, if I may turn to one of the previous speakers, I would like to thank the voters that we will be refugees in Slovenia and our government will be different from the governments in the neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u101	Jani Prednik has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u102	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Honourable President of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Today, like the custom of the past 25 years, we hear from the left and right of certain ideological things. I'm not going to touch it because I don't care, but I'm going to touch local issues because I'm a local patriot myself. I have already explained on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space one completely simple matter, namely that for the journey from Ljubljana to Koroška, 120 kilometers along a road that we probably cannot even tell the road, I need two hours of driving. We need from Ljubljana to Lendava for 200 kilometers an hour and a half, which is right. It is not right, however, that we do not have the Korošci road, which would allow us equal quick access from Ljubljana to Koroška. The fact that the third development axis has not yet been built and that we have been waiting for it for 20 years, I also said on the committee, is a disgrace to the state. Only the name of the third development axis indicates that this is the basis of development. And because this road has not yet been built, Koroška is lagging behind in this development. See why this road, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Government, is more urgent. I'll only count three. The demographic picture shows that the number of young people in Koroška has decreased by 37% since independence. The safety aspect shows that Arja vas-Dravograd has been proven to be the one that claimed the most fatal casualties on Slovenian roads. If this section is compared to the Trojan–Trafficking motorway, we find that 70% more traffic accidents have taken place on this road between Arya village and Dravograd than the comparable distance on the highway. The economic aspect shows us that building this road would bring €40 million into the state budget. The common economy of the Carinthia and Savino-Salenia region generates more than a billion euro of added value each year. The construction of the section of this Coroše fast road is estimated at €700 million. I have already told the committee myself that I am pleased that the candidate for Minister Mrs Bratušek has placed the third development axis among the main priorities. We also wrote in the Coalition Treaty: Continue activities in progress and start works on both parts of the so-called third development axis north and south. I hope and believe that this will not only be a dead letter on paper and that the government you will lead will adhere to the construction protocol signed today by Minister Gasperšič last year and that the construction will start in 2019 or at the latest in early 2020. Although some of the opposition Members in particular do not trust this government, I trust in you, Mr President, and also in your future government. I hope we all stick together to the commitments we made. But I am going to end this way – governance does not mean any benefit, let alone a sense of ease; it means responsibility, in particular responsibility. That is why I expect the Government and the National Assembly, whether opposition or coalition Members, to act responsibly towards everyone, including the peripheral provinces, such as Koroška, which has been forgotten by Ljubljana so far. The candidates for ministers and ministers today have my vote. To the ministers and, of course, to the Prime Minister of the Government, I wish all happiness, a lot of nerves and four years from now, total success in the elections, which will show once again that the left side is still better than the right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u103	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Get Dr. Darius Krajčič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Four years ago, he was the main eyewitness to a team that made up the government to wear too many shoes. Today, it is more than clear that these shoes were right and that walking was not always easy, but they did come a long way. I remember a colleague from the opposition who, with the conviction of the preacher and with a raised pointer, predicted this government for only one month; a mistake. The new ministerial team also faces the same predictions, only that they are slightly less aggressive because they have studied psychics. During the last four years, the modern centre's client has taken over and maintained an interlinking role and has acted creatively, leading to a more patient dialogue not only within the coalition but also to the opposition and, in the first place, to the people. We were listening to NGOs, and there were intensive coordinations in the public sector, partly by profession — with nurses, teachers, policemen, soldiers, doctors. We always had open doors for businessmen and entrepreneurs, craftsmen, civil initiatives and societies. This willingness to talk has often caused a lot of hot blood, but it is not necessarily that the two who are talking always agree. It is true, however, that we have awakened the Trench of cultural dialogue between politics and people. I wish that would lead the new ministerial team. At the Modern Centre Party, we offered a choice of ministers, if you want, strawberry choice, a selected quartet of experienced politicians and young energy with a lot of potential. Minister Restorationšek is a synonym for a successful economy and new jobs; the new Minister Ksenija Klampfer appears to have done much to open a debate on decent work in the field of work and social policies. Minister Jure Leben recognized how long the environment as a phenomenon has been neglected and that it must be decided politically at all levels of different areas. Finally, Dr. Miro Cerar, for the first time Minister, who joined his government in the international reputation of Slovenia from the crisis into the model country of the European Union. Isn't that why he's the most suitable candidate for our country's first diplomat? After the outcome of the arbitration ruling, the European Commission, as you know, put nothing in principle or more on the principle of ostrich's head in the sand and did not go to the implementation of this certain limit, did not allow the Prime Minister to continue to draw us. In accordance with international law, of course, he has stood up for our interests and this action has been initiated. No hesitation, no stepping into anything too big. And now it seems that Miro Cerar and his team have run out of this first Olympic circle in adidasca by their own measure and better than all his predecessors. We made up a outgoing government four years ago within two months of the election, this time lasted one month longer, and I hope that the new government will therefore last one month longer than the previous one. This means that after the last three early elections, we will be going to regular elections for a long time next time. I hope it's not a hiccup from the government that's saying good-bye today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u105	Dr. Darius Krajčič has the floor. Get Violeta Tomic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! It follows from today's performance by the President of the Government and also from the coalition agreement that this agreement does not favour any social group. In this text, as well as the implementation of the President, we find assurance that all social groups in Slovenia can feel safe. It does not favour entrepreneurs, nor teachers, nor scientists, nor athletes; but it gives everyone the opportunity to make those who are good – and we have good ones among entrepreneurs, athletes, teachers, workers – and those who are worse – feel safe in here. This is an important message. This ensures security, including a sense of security in people, and this also increases the quality of life. A raise in the quality of life is not just about money. The public sector is not a parasite, as we often hear from right-wing political options. Those who do not respect the public sector do not respect the state. Developed democracies build the public sector, the office of the year and year and have no negative attitude or contempt; they build it over and over again because it ensures the state. This ensures stability and ensures that all citizens in such a country feel well. Our President has also shown a great deal of patience in forming this government, a lot of patience will also be required in negotiating; and this is a virtue not everyone has. It is not the only minority government in Europe, there are many of them, and perhaps it is also a model for society like ours, which allows dialogue based on dialogue, and that through dialogue it is also looking for optimal solutions. The climate of fear that some political options are having in this country is not close to me. I must also say that he is extremely manipulative, because he attacks one of the basic oil needs of man, that is the need for security. And because he's so manipulative, he's also very sensitive. I don't know how close it is for someone to build up their political mess in the country on the basis of fear in society. Our President of the Government was the only one able to provide a majority in this House; there was no other among us; however, anger, resentment, feeling bad, good, wonderful, whatever. He was the only one who was capable of this, and that's why I appreciate him. What I might like about this government, but first I wasn't, and today I am, is that it's a great combination of old and new faces. Why do I like this? I like it because those who claim that the new faces are inexperienced and have nothing to look for in the government are wrong; and those who claim that the experienced have nothing to look for because they have shown but have shown nothing are wrong. The President of the Government has managed to pull these together and we can count on the combination of new and old to be optimal for our society. We hear many times from some political options a statement taken from some media, taken many times from contexts that show that someone is bad, but mostly bad, always bad. If we read anything else, we'd hear something else. The matter is attractive, and it can cause a lot of manipulation, but it doesn't have the right content. This is more indicative of the psychological line of people we mark psychologically as persecutors. And if we recognize them, life is easier and easier to counter. Whatever we look at, the results of this government will be based not on the texts that are written; but on the results, on the people. The people who will create this political environment in the next mandate period, as well as other people in the country, will put their personal note into this story. As far as I know my President, I know he's putting a lot on a personal note; and he's going to point out this personal note to the members of his cabinet. Those who do not know how to bring this personal note to life will, in my opinion, have to say good-bye very quickly. The underestimation of us on this side is not close to me. It is not just on the one hand all the ability, the greatest ability and the only ability; we also know what to do, and we have proved it in other roles. That is why I would like to raise respect for one another to a higher level in this House in this mandate. We will also radiate this into society, and in this way we will ensure greater stability and kindness in our environment. We know that some who today know everything and know how to save and be better have once called a threesome, not so long ago. A Brussels troika to bring our country to the level of Greece and some other country. Happily, we did not follow these counsels at the time, and I am very glad that we did not; but it is difficult for someone like that to explain to me that he could now lead this country very well. We have also heard that this story, which happened in Maribor with the boys in the forest, has been known for a year and a half. I have to say, this is the first time I've ever found out. One who knows it's a year and a half old story is probably an integral part of a deep state. I'm not there because I didn't know that, so I'm a shallow country. I think there's a man in there — but now I don't know if it's true or not, I read in the media — some of these parties are young. The system of intimidation is not close to me and I will fight it all the time, because there is no need to intimidate this Slovenian nation, there is no need, we are doing too well, we are too good; and therefore I do not want the spirit of intimidation to spread in our society. I think the government that will be led by our President is going this way, and that is what we are being assured. Interestingly, today we have been told that we do not have European values, and we know what the European Parliament has recently written about Mr Viktor Orban. [[…]] But we also know who Mr Viktor Orban recently invited our country to his events, and we also know that Viktor Orban does not respect European values, so it is very difficult for me to accept a thought that we do not have European values. I think the government ahead of us is somehow expecting us all to support it, to look under her fingertips, to monitor her work. It will also be interesting to find a combination between a coalition and a party that under certain conditions supports us in some way. I am very interested, and I will work with interest in this mandate, because it seems to me that it is innovation. We are talking a lot about these innovations that this country needs them. Well, I think this political innovation will be good too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Get ready for Sonibo the Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u108	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The minority government is no entertainment, nor is there any new one, because we have here in the vicinity of Portugal at present, we are always kind of looking at the Scandinavian countries that practice it. Interestingly, some would like a one-party system, see a kind of greater strength in the government made up of one party, one principle, one leader. You know, it's not called democracy, even if a party has a democracy in its name. Usually, you know, I look through Parliament and what people have on behalf of them is what they lack most, so they would not go further into this debate. I had heard the public sector before, although this was not exactly the subject of hearings that I was on, but the public sector, respected colleagues and colleagues, is accompanying us from cradle to grave. The only one. Grandma, who'll be the first to catch you when you take a breath of air, is the public sector. And the woman or the man who will accompany you in the breath is also the public sector. Those who do not respect these people do not respect any human values. But he respects only capital, for he who owns capital can buy supplies anywhere, and the poor man can die on the street. You see, this is not a solidarity state and it is not even Christian if we are already talking about who is proposing such measures. I will focus more on culture and agroculture myself, these are somehow the topics that concern me the most personally, because agriculture is something that will enable us to survive and self-sustainment is of paramount importance. At the hearing, Dr. Aleksandra Pivec, the candidate for Minister, presented her views on agriculture. What worried me is that it comes from the same quota, called Desusa, director of the Slovenian State Forests, SIDG, and in the coalition contract it is necessary that the Court of Auditors review the establishment of the Slovenian State Forests, which covers as much as 20% of our forests – and the Slovenians do not have oil and we have forests. This is also the reason why we will never be in Venezuela; nothing to be afraid of — we have no oil and no gold. They are the target of imperialists because they lie, sit, live on oil and on gold. And that's why such pressure, political, media, economic and so on. Don't worry, Slovenians, you can't be Venezuela! Even if we were on oil and gold, we would have sold it a long time ago because we have such policies that are very much for privatisation, and there would be no reason to be pressured. Let me go back to agriculture. We have to guard the woods, that's probably one of the last things we have left. That is why transparency is needed. I am therefore pleased that the candidate said she supported this audit. The next thing is the severe poverty of the rural population, especially women. We wondered whether state pensions and a protective allowance would be reintroduced to make it easier for the farming population to live. Support for small farms as there are not many large farms in Slovenia. The current regulation, which gives European funds only to farms over 3 hectares, is lifeless for Slovenians. If I touch culture, culture is one of the pillars that has experienced the worst cuts in the course of austerity measures and crises. It is in no other sector that there are so many highly educated and internationally recognised experts living so miserablely, it is said, below the threshold of poverty. Half of the individual cultural workers do not receive a minimum wage and one third live below the poverty threshold. These aren't lazy, respected colleagues and colleagues! These are highly educated, with master's works, these are people who represent Slovenia abroad and who are extremely respected, and here share the fate of Prešern, Cankar and those people we celebrated only after their death. That's unacceptable. In short, the candidate for a minister said, of course, that he would raise the budget for culture, because without money he can't go, gradually to 0.5%. Otherwise, it pains me to say without a problem that we would raise the defence budget to 1%. Our culture is not worth half of it, but in some projection there by 2020. The next problem, which we will tackle as a matter of priority, is the problem of self-employed people. The fourth day of the hospital does not seem disputed to the candidate. In short, because it is necessary to put on a new whole cultural model, since no one has systematically engaged in culture since independence from Slovenia. And since it has to be renovated, I really hope that the commitments made by the candidate for minister will also be kept and will maintain dialogue with civil society and, above all, with an independent stage. For they are one of the greatest employees in the country, as far as the culturers are concerned. The Media Law will also need to be recast, because as much hate speech as we have heard in recent times, I do not remember seeing or hearing it at any time in my life; even before I have never been in politics. Maybe it's because I don't know that the previous government has stepped down and that until the next election and the formation of the new coalition, it took so long that people felt possibly lost, disgruntled, that some of the smokers took advantage of them and gave them fear. That is why different meetings take place. We know what it's like when "a nation happens" and they scream "I can't hear good" and they yell at guns. Slovenia has its own army, has police and has organs. The country's working. What's been going on lately has been quite a sense of a coup d'état. Many people remind me repeatedly that we are in a situation similar to that of the 1930 ’ s before World War II began. The left hand and the right hand got a little over 30%, the left hand got a little bit more. But the capital was afraid that he would have to give people more money and he did what? He recapitalized Hitler! You know everything else. I'm not talking. What is happening now that you are signing some petitions against the rich contributing to the common treasury, so that even the poor can have decent care from cradle to grave, is unacceptable and, of course, goes in a direction we do not want. That is why I really want this government to have a lot of wisdom, a lot of patience and intelligent bargaining, of course, the Left will always be constructive here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Mr Soniboj Knezak, to prepare himself for the Mag. Dean Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, and, of course, a successful first meeting. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that, after three months of coordination and negotiations on the composition of the new government or coalition, we are now in the final stage of the confirmation of the ministerial teams, which is the last prerequisite that, as the Prime Minister himself said in the introduction, we are finally starting work. This year, or the events of the past months, will be a memento of three or four matters. The first is more personal, namely that after 36 years of election to the National Assembly, I replaced the employer. Thank you to the citizens and citizens of Hrastnik for your trust. Secondly, the results of the elections are more than the results of the situation that arose after the elections, where the relative winner of the elections due to a long-standing policy of exclusion, intimidation, suspicious and still unexplained sources of funding from abroad, and something else, that I do not shorten your time, there was not one single interlocutor or trust among all parliamentary parties for the composition of the joint government. This is a very clear message that the policy of exclusion, the defamation of political competitors does not have support, which, of course, is certainly a joy when nationalism increases. Even today, in his opening discussion, Mr Janša wrote down to whom he had sent an invitation, who had answered him all the questions, who had not answered him. But he did not mention the reason why no one decided to do so. This is a question to which Mr Janša must answer himself, which is why I conclude. The election of the minority government, which we have for the first time in Slovenia, is a long-term process, partly due to electoral results. I think it has taken too long, but my colleagues and colleagues who have been more experienced and long in this state policy have been explaining that this is something common and that this year's arrangements for the composition of the government are not significantly different from those of the past. Although I am a novelty on this floor of state policy, which differs significantly from all my experience so far, at the municipal or local level. For I come from a small place, from the Zasavik journals, specifically from Hrastnik, where we are used to having usually a varied pre-election event, but after the well-known results of the elections we bow to the new leadership, it is said, specifically to the mayor, and that we work together for the welfare of citizens and citizens. This is what I miss, my fellow Members and colleagues, even at this state level. Of course, there are few exceptions to the fact that it will not sound too idyllic. We will therefore meet for the first time the practice of the minority government. If the minority government means more coordination, more communication, I don't think it's that bad. The lack of communication and haste in the past has prompted the adoption of a number of bad laws, which later caused us a number of problems. Today we are living in a stable economic situation and this luxury is a little wider debate and, as a result, a sober reflection in the adoption of new laws for the good of quality, too. During the pre-election period, all the parties represented in Parliament have seen the same areas as should be a priority for the functioning of the new government. I hope that this will also prove to be true in support of all the measures we will implement, especially in the area of health, where we must urgently reduce waiting lines to prevent deaths due to abnormally long waiting periods, until, lastly, the improvement of the social situation of pensioners, this is the generation that has built this country, and in recent years with pension reforms, we have made them a system of poor people who freeze in their homes in the winter months, standing in the ranks of the Red Cross and other humanitarian organisations for food. The data that some 280 thousand pensioners live on the threshold of poverty certainly cannot be proud of us. As I said, this and some other areas we have all taken for granted, so I am counting on the opposition's support for the changes. I have not seen anywhere that the constructive opposition is prohibited, which could only conclude from this practice, but is, of course, desirable, as well as the government's obedience to a good proposal from the opposition. Your Honor! The candidates and candidates for the Minister and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who presented themselves to us at the so-called hearings, showed a good degree of knowledge of the area to be covered. I have worked my career in the field of human resources for sixteen years myself, and I must say that in my colleagues and colleagues from SDS, we have wonderful staff experts who know how to assess in short hearings who is good, who is who — I would not have hoped for it. The only rule that the President of the Government has repeatedly mentioned, the only measure of law that will count, is the results. I myself have been at some hearings where I have highlighted some of the state projects that are also envisaged in our area of Zasavja, specifically Hrastnika. Zasavje, you know that there was still an energy region where we lost thousands of jobs in the past years, when we closed the mines, the story, including the thermal power plant and some others, you know for yourself. We are left with miles of trenches that will leave long-lasting consequences in the environment, so it is essential, as I have also pointed out to the infrastructure and environment candidates, that in a relatively short time, three years at the end of the year we close the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mines, but in this law we have left out an extremely important area for the countrymen and the localities of our congregation, and that is monitoring. We have been filling these empty trenches with a variety of supple materials, with water, but we are experiencing uncontrolled water incursions in recent times, beaches, so this monitoring is not a luxury, but citizens and citizens of Hrastnik demand it. I also mentioned the road link Hrastnik-Zidani Bridge. This is the only appendix on the route, if you drive along the road to Savoy from Lithuania to Krske, the only 7 kilometers you can not go with the truck, one part is also one-way traffic; in short, extremely irregular environment. Some activities have also begun with the purchase of land, so I have also received some assurance that the means of completing this road will also be in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. In front of us is the construction of hydro power plants in central Savi. This will be the first in our area, the Suhadol hydro power plant. In addition to reaching into space, it will bring about quite a few changes. You know we have one of the best kayaks in the world, along with our world champion, Peter Kauzer, and a number of young generations. So, the conditions that allow today the training of this kayakism in the wild waters. We will obtain the lake with this hydroelectric power plant and therefore rightly expect local communities to be involved in planning this construction, where we are relentlessly demanding and expect the citizens of Hrastnik to also have the kayak track. The candidates were familiar with these wishes, including projects, so I hope that they will also come true. I will support the proposed ministerial team myself, but of course I wish them much success in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Kaloh, prepare for Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members, all those who look at us in this afternoon! In my implementation, I would just like to touch the hearing for the candidate for the Minister of Justice, Mrs Katič, because I am also there as Vice-President of the Committee. Ms Katič said at the hearing that she wanted to pay attention to the content of the coalition contract. Now I've read this part of the coalition contract very well. There's basically two sides, just two sides, I think, of a flossule. For this important area, we would expect something more important, substantive, and I wonder where the content is. As I have already said, it follows my assessment of the average pyre product, which does not bring any breakthroughs in matters that would need to be breached, in systemic regulation, but unfortunately not in justice, if you want justice arising from judgments handed down by judges on behalf of the people. As we have seen two days ago, Dr. Milko Novic was released after three years and a half, according to a criminal prison sentence, was released. This is already one such case, which calls for certain cases, such as the responsibility of judges, to be taken a little more seriously. Public confidence in the efficiency and independence of the Slovenian judiciary is among the lowest in Europe, I said the case Novic. The Presidents of the courts themselves are on sad benches, as is the case with the President of the Labour Court of Maribor, judicial proceedings are carried out over all reasonable deadlines and could still be listed. In short, the responsibility of the judges and prosecutors has completely fallen out of this coalition, this coalition, the six-year-old. So, no system where you could see one base of these judges who violate human rights in their decisions is actually not. I also miss a register of out-of-date judges' cases so that we can see who these judges may be lazy, incompetent or otherwise, as well as any commitment to change the Prosecutor's Law. Neither do the prosecutors bear any responsibility. In rejecting criminal charges, which is mass, we have already proposed, in our party, a co-signature of the Prosecutor's Office, in fact, that you have overlooked for a short time. And let me mention again, because before, colleague Divac Mirnik mentioned Maribor. See, in the coalition contract there is no mention of Maribor as the second largest regional centre, one is not from Maribor, one is not from Maribor, one is not from Maribor. If this is your singing decentralisation, thank you very much for such a government and of course I will vote against such a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the floor to prepare Mr Predrag Baković.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u114	Thank you, chairman, for your word. Hello, Mr. President of the Government, dear, dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself came to this temple of democracy from the economy, where I spent most of my life and from the 27th year forward as a director and ended up in my company. Now I've landed in this building, in this hall, where I've become a liability. And we are all at the expense of some interpretations, but neither the law nor the legal arrangements are positive in Europe, nor do we know this division into the economy and the economy that we are talking about. Everything is an economy, we only know the market and non-market sectors, this separation. Look at the classification, all the data coming from this and who says how much the economy spends, I don't know where it has collected this data, because also the non-market sector, which many, non-economic activity, consumer activity, contributes to and increases the social product. And the more developed countries across Europe, if you follow it, the higher this share, the more the unmarketed economy. The only real dilemma here is how to separate these two sectors, what to organise on the market, which is more rational, the only reason is rationality or non-marketable. If we just take a look at, say, one non-market part to organise a market, say a highway to the coast from Ljubljana, we should have at least two motorways. In order to establish competition, we should have two governments to also establish competition, two police; well, we also seem to be building two armies – I don't know. So, the non-market part is also an economy, we know the effectiveness of the given means to do as much as possible and do it well in public discourse, which journalists like to pick up because it's bombastic for teachers to spend and doctors to work and create. I don't know if it's more important than what a teacher or doctor does, that is, health, a teacher of our knowledge, a scientist, a cultural worker, than my colleague Boscarol does – because we're both pilots and I like aviation, but it's a toy, it's not for serious summers, and there's no sport in his products. But he's smart, he knows everything, and we don't, because politics is easy to hit. Let us be proud and not let go, dear fellows and colleagues. I don't feel that way, and I believe we're going to make good regulations in this temple. After I'm a basic lawyer, and I'm a master of business, so I've been doing economics, and I've been writing books all the time, and they said, not you, not you, not you, not the paper, go there and do something! And I came here to do something, in this temple of democracy. In my view, the greatest property is, most of all, among all the rights that define democracy, if I say so, the most important right to its truth is to the various truths. That is why this temple is to take these different views of some facts, because the truth is the view of the fact that they meet here and that we resolve things from different perspectives. Modern science, neuroscience, says and is able already in children, at four years of age to determine who was born with a more conservative brain and who was more liberal. So that's how nature has already taken care of this division, and that's about half-and-a-half. We see that this is also about half-and-half in parliaments. This is how it happens: one prevails, the other prevails. If we believe in the Creator, then he created man so that one is more conservative, the other more liberal, because we need both aspects of the truth to create some stability in this society, or as Aristotle said, that politics is the activity of free people to create order, stability and justice in society so that society can build. That is why I think it is completely unnecessary or inappropriate in this temple, because it is right that the dialogue runs, that I say that we fire from one bank to another because the dialogue must run, but we do not need to get into cynicism, that we lie to each other, that we deny each other, and that we are spreading insults just because they are watching us, and I don't think that's really appropriate. Because society’s moral attitude — but something that unites society — has to do with the first moral commandments. 10 The commandments clearly state what you must not do, that this society may not fall apart; you must not steal, kill, and so on. According to recent research, recent research, this has been done in America, they have more resources for science and research, universities are doing this on a wide scale, and Jonathan Haidt has even done a survey on a sample of 320 thousand people, so not on ten people who have shown that he compared five basic bases that they have detected that make up society. [[…]] That's helping a fellow human being, that's basically what we're built in, caring for a fellow human being. Let's think about our own children, what we're willing to do for them, what we have installed, what we have. As we have the capacity for justice, as we have the capacity to respect authority, as we have the knowledge that we are faithful, that we are loyal to our group, to our group, and as we have the knowledge that certain things are sacred, which we must not violate. I feel for this society, Slovenian, that little of the sacred thing must be our language, as well as our flag and belonging. Okay, that's all. But when this will cross with a political orientation, the result showed an interesting picture: everyone has something like this, but the lions are more inclined – “lefts”, the liberals are more rightly said – the liberal liberals are more inclined to care for the fellow man and for justice, while the right ones are also the builders of this society, much more important, but they are more committed to order and loyalty. We can also see this a little bit when customers operate, some are more scattered, and some are more united, because we see who respects something. But we need each other to build a society. But if we bring in too much order now, as the candidate has said, how many laws and regulations we have, there are laws together, for example, 847, if I remember correctly, and more than 19 thousand rules, if we make too much order, nothing remains room for freedom and autonomy. It is my responsibility to achieve my goals responsibly. However, if this assembly were to prescribe all of this through laws and regulations, I no longer have any responsibility, because I have no means but to achieve some of my goals as a free man, as I initially said, how Aristotle defined politics – this is the activity of free people to achieve some stability, order and justice in society. That is why I have said and I believe that this minority government is actually in favour because it has the opportunity to seek compromises and to draw up the truth from several perspectives and to draw up a truth that will be good for all of us. That is why I wish the President of the Government and his suit every happiness and opportunity for good work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Bakovic has the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u116	Dear President, Honourable President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Before I speak to the incoming government team, I would also like to make a few words to the government and the ministers on their way out. I come personally from Kočev, which until recently has been neglected and full of difficult challenges. There has been a collapse of companies, both metal and wood industries, and Kočevje has stagnated. Great unemployment, which was the largest in the country, was detected, was exactly 25%. Somehow after 2014, the situation has changed dramatically, so today we have 15% unemployment, which is a 10% drop. This is thanks both to the local community – if you want, the Municipality of Kočevje – as well as to the state, the government that has provided the right conditions for investors, both through the Pokolpi programme and through other financial incentives. Of course, Jaskawa's arrival here is important, and domestic entrepreneurs are also expanding their investment. I can tell you that Kočevje is in bloom. That is why I can say here that Kočevje regards the work of the last government as a success. Of course, there are quite a few challenges that the new government will have to face, but more optimistic. What do we expect from the new government? First of all, the infrastructure is expected to complete the railway connection between Kočev and Ljubljana, both for freight and passenger transport. It is expected that they will soon begin installing signal-safety devices on the railway. Another expectation is the modernisation of the Ljubljana–Kočevje road, i.e. 3a development axis. The coalition contract indicates the intensification of pre-investment activities in area 3a of the development axis, which is exhilarating. It will also have to be a priority to start editing the bonds, both in Škofljica, Veliki Laša, Ribnica and in Kočev. Given the economic boom, we will need both modern railway and road. Citizens of Kočev, probably others, expect the most from all radical measures and changes in the area of security. Kočevje is one of those congregations where security challenges are particularly complex and challenging. You certainly know a number of reverberations that have taken place in the area of our local community and have had worse consequences for specific people, while also greatly affecting the security of all citizens in the local environment. We know about the murder at the gas station, the purchase of bulletproof vests at the Kočev Health House. And in such events, it is not just about making citizens feel safe, it is also about causing economic damage to the local community in retroactive security events. The cabin is in the stage of an economic breakthrough, but resounding security events can have a strong impact on investors' decisions not to invest in such environments where security conditions are worse. The local community has tried to do a lot in this area, but if there is no State aid here, then everything is hopeless. This is where the European Community is intertwined, where there are problems in education, living conditions, employment, as well as security phenomena. Residents in the vicinity of Roma settlements are getting more and more excited because of their day-to-day extremely disturbing phenomena, and they are already seriously threatened with civil disobedience and demonstrations. As a result of all these problems, citizens expect a serious approach from the State in all those ministries in charge of security. Systemic measures are expected to prevent the emergence of problematic security phenomena, while at local level everything is made up-to-date, both on the police side and on the municipal side, and it is stuck in inspections and in court. The local community, as well as we have proposals to help raise the security culture, will not work without the assistance of the state. We therefore expect the country's assistance here more than in the areas mentioned above. Finally, these measures will not actually stand at nothing, only measures must be systematic, effective, consistent and equal for all. These are kind of the expectations of the people who live in the area that I come from. They expect a lot from me than they expect from you. Let's not disappoint them. I support the incoming government team and will vote in favour of the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u117	Thank you, gentlemen. Ms Mojca Žnidarič has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Commissioner, Honourable Candidates and Candidates for Ministers, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! Today is an important day; the day when we will start a new work for the common good of our country, of all its citizens and citizens. We are rightly expected to be a country, a higher political culture, fair and well-thought-out decisions and measures that will enable all of us to live better. The dota, which has been taken over by the President of the Government and future ministers and ministers, is encouraging as of today. The expectations of us, Members and Members that work will continue successfully are more than justifiable. The incoming government placed health care first. And that's right. I believe that the arrangements for long-term care and the adoption of law are one of the sour apples that will need to be bitten as soon as possible. We are still lagging behind the most developed, although we are all aware that ageing in the future will have an even greater impact on health expenditure. You're wondering why we don't have a marriage yet. Certainly one of the reasons is that it is a financially demanding law, that the interests of stakeholders are different and are not deliberately oriented towards the same objective, but that overcoming such a view will be essential if we want to succeed in the end. Long-term care has always mirrored humanity and I wish that, as a community and society here, we would not cancel. As a society, however, we must not forget other vulnerable groups of people: disabled persons, long-term unemployed persons, excluded persons. These need social security, more opportunities to re-engage in society and the working environment and more opportunities for a self-sustaining and decent life. Social policy measures must and will be geared towards actively promoting human and human capital development. In the labour market, the age segmentation and cost inequality of different forms of work will need to be reduced, which significantly contributes to the dissemination of the penetrating forms of work. However, work must become more valuable and payment for honest work must be decent and much higher than social benefits. I am pleased that agriculture also has an important place on the list of government priorities. In view of the content guidelines that have been heard so far, the future minister is giving new sails to Slovenian farmers and farms. Incentives to agricultural economies to contribute as much agricultural produce as possible to the domestic market are the right way to provide more self-sustainment. Consumer confidence is already growing, and I hope that it will not be long before consumers are rewarded with the efforts of domestic agriculture for safe and quality food. Through decisions to purchase quality food of Slovenian origin, we can all contribute to the conservation and strengthening of farms, jobs and rural areas. But here we must not forget the appropriate incentive to make agriculture more attractive for young people. Behind us were the years when Slovenia moved from the table for which the troika had been invited to sit at the table for which the economic partners were sitting. We have shown in the SMC that we understand the needs of the economic environment, the environment and not capital. I am therefore pleased that the current Minister remains at the head of the Ministry of Economy, and I am confident that measures will continue to aim at bringing the new investors into a less developed environment. I am optimistic that this will happen in this mandate also in the environment from which I come. In view of what has been heard in individual presentations on the Committees, I find that with optimism we can look to the future. Slovenia is and will reflect an open, fair, solidarity, advanced and confident society. I add that it will be of benefit to all of us if one of the positive experiences of this mandate is that we know how to work together, even when we are not in the best of circumstances. I count and believe in the successful work of this government, 13 in a row. Estimates of whether number 13 is really a bad trip for her work, and I leave it to the more superstitious than I am myself. Happiness is on the side of the brave, so happy and successful new government and happy and successful Slovenia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter has the floor. Get Mr. Alexander Reberšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Prime Minister of the Government and my colleagues, a nice welcome from my side! Dear Mr. Sharpe, I'll allow myself to be a little critical. Take this as a well-meaning criticism and a nice friendly companion's journey forward. We have prepared ourselves in particular for the hearings of the Minister's candidates in the Left Group. I'm going to draw some points from this address that would like to be a challenge for you and your ministerial team in the future. I will draw on the statement or vision of Mr Cerar and Mrs Bratuška. To Cerar's first. In your presentation, a colleague from the party said that you want Slovenia, which will be an equal, respectable and equal partner in foreign policy. In his presentation, Mr Cerar exposed the two main dimensions of his foreign policy, i.e. open dialogue with all countries and a culture of peace and non-violence. Slovenia currently, hand to heart, does not characterise a culture of peace in its foreign policy or open dialogue. Open dialogue, remember the campaign to recognise Palestine, it was not an open dialogue. This dialogue has been very closed, it has fallen on some technical footnotes, and here Cerar's foreign policy will have the most challenges. On the other hand, the culture of peace; while we have our people on international occupation missions, military missions around the world, it is difficult to affix this mantra culture of peace to our flag. At this point, Slovenia is a diametric contradiction, and as President of the incoming government, I place my heart on you to address your team, especially Mr Cerar in this context. Then, as if this is not enough, we read on Saturday evening that Cerar will appoint Dobran Bozič, military officer, Major General of the General Staff of the Slovenian Army at the time that the government was led by Janez Janša. We also read in the evening that he would like to attend a meeting in support of John Janša. That both gentlemen are inclined, i.e. Mr Bozič and Cerar, to the universal Americanisation of Slovenian political, economic and other space, is not a secret. At this point, as a citizen, I say a handful of concerns in this direction; if we are talking about a balanced foreign policy, let us talk about a balanced foreign policy. And then Mrs. Bratušek, the candidate for Minister of Infrastructure. We have also raised some challenges at this hearing, and I am afraid we have not received any answers at all. There were no answers that we would disagree with, no answers at all. What will you do about the loss that TES creates? There's no answer. How will you implement the commitments of the coalition agreement on the construction of the timeline, the closure of coal-fired power plants to the 2030 position? There's no answer. How much money will you spend on measures against energy poverty – and we have talked about this very specifically at the hearing – in the next cohesion policy implementation programme? No answer. And a few other things like that. Personally, I have been most hurt when we also mentioned my local Zasavje, if we are already Members and Members relatively regional today. How do you intend to include Zasavje and then to include this route below the Styrian highway, so through Dolenjska and White Krajina, into this third development axis? “At this point, I do not know very well the specific sections so that I can answer all the specific questions.” Unsatisfactory answer and I place it on my heart, I place it constructively again on my heart to focus on this issue with my lady on behalf of all Zasavčanka and Zasavčany. Now, if I only allow myself a brief replica, or if I look at some of the things that fellow Members and Members have said. Mr. Horvath, I'm glad you've joined us again. It is very dangerous to talk about nationalisation and pensions in the same sentence, because neither the coalition contract nor the Levitical programme speaks about nationalisation, but only about the nationalisation of pensions. The fugitives are back, my respectable colleague. Refugees are socially weak. We all agree with that. But what I'm interested in is, essentially, where does the data show that war fugitives, but the Priors, too, are educationally weak? This is one question or one statement that I would hope to make to her a misleading claim. And a fellow Member of Parliament, Pojbich. It is extremely inappropriate – I am sorry that it is not in the hall – an extremely inappropriate comment of the haste on colleague Luke Mesca and Miha Kordiš, “a snorkel who has never worked”. This is one thing that does not belong to the temple of democracy, and at this point, before I conclude, I would call on the President, whoever is already sitting in this chair, to disciplinaryly sanction such things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexander Reberšek has the floor. But get ready for Mr. Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We've come a long way in this country, very far, but unfortunately we're not going in the right direction. Half of the Slovenians live with a few hundred euros, including people who have worked 40 years or more and do not receive even 400 euros in pension, and migrants and the country are more concerned about them than Slovenian citizens. In our country, with public money, we overpay everything we can overpaid. Daily disappearing and will disappear millions through various projects, TES 6, highway cross, NLB credits, medical equipment and many other projects money is rapidly pumping out. And before us is the construction of a second track and a third development axis, and I believe that appetites will be great. If I can explain it to you with specific numbers. The criminal investigation confirmed that TES 6 was overpaid for more than half a billion, and it was also found that a similar power plant abroad was significantly less expensive for the same manufacturer than for us. So tell me, who in this country is never enough to take bread from other citizens! Is it fair that someone in this country treats himself with truffles and caviar, and someone else who works doesn't even have steak? In recent decades, politics has seen to it that our debt has grown by more than 30 billion. In the same breath, let me point out that five billion have gone through the bank hole since the beginning of the crisis to date. Is this the system that citizens want? I'm sure you don't, but this is the system we have right now. That is why I expect both the President of the Government and future ministers, and I also demand that they work honestly to put honest people in charge of their actions, both with positions and with property. The annex system should be abolished, red tape reduced, numerous offices and agencies should be reduced – and oversupply contracts should be reduced. Most importantly, public tendering and this theft of taxpayer money must be abolished. This is a key problem in our country, so I call on all future ministers and you, as Prime Minister of the Government, to stop the theft of taxpayer money. It's not hard to be smart to find out that politics has only worked for itself and its interests all this time. But I would like to see the day when they will put Slovenian citizens first and care for the common good, as New Slovenia does. I am sure that in our beautiful country there would be enough money for everyone who works if it were not for some policy that has been around for 25 years for 50 years. In the end, let me remind you that we are all fleeting and that in the end, no one, thank God, will carry anything with us and that only what kind of person you are to a human being, what kind of person you are to a fellow human being and what country we will leave to our craftsmen. Life is like chess. In the end, both the farmer and the king go together into the box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri Leprechaun has the floor. Get Dr. Milan Brglez ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are accepting a new government, and I believe that the rule and leadership of government is not an easy thing, we have already learned that, and everyone who takes on their responsibility here has taken on something. This government has been composed for a little while, but look, I'm sure 5+1 or 6 doesn't matter at all; in short, we have to achieve this goal that we've set ourselves together. Operationally, the government must carry out the things that we are Members of – whether people or citizens or citizens – we have accepted or spoken for. It is said that the government must fulfil this commitment it has received with the budget adopted, so I am looking at these things. However, to adopt the budget, there are clearly very many interests of different interests. Today we have heard that individuals – we all come from another part of Slovenia, which we have such and different problems, only today is not the time, for this is the time later when we will be adopting budgets. I'm sure it's not that easy to put together such a diverse government. I am also a little skeptical at times, given that some speak only to spend, some to work. I myself have participated in these decisions of the four committees, if I may just mention: economy, education, social, culture. This is also my view of the system of life itself, the very system of this creation. So if the economy isn't going well, there can't be anything else. And I might even do this a little bit, given that individuals who have been in the economy for the rest of their lives may not separate small businesses from these large companies. Small entrepreneurs are mostly on the threshold, which is why they can do something and any tax raise, any new taxes can get them “under the bucket”; it is said that they can no longer work. The same problem is small and large farms. Thus, our agricultural policy advocates mostly large farmers, there is a lot of subsidies and a small farmer is likely to live or not at all. From this point of view, I fear that it may happen that in the long term very few people will live in rural areas and in fact, as we all are talking about having to be self-reliant. Self - care is also very important for these small farmers. I am sure that our government will have to steer in this direction, but everything else is not as important if we say that Slovenian language and culture is also the basis. I was on a local level, I tell you, without the Slovenian language we are not. Then we can all say what we would do, where we would come from, whether we would come from Austria or go elsewhere, to Croatia; in short, we are Slovenians, we are unique, we have our demands, our wishes. What's our biggest mistake? That we don't respect that another person or someone knows more than we do. That an individual is certainly more capable of such individuals or groups of people — our ministries or capital must support them. We say the word is capital. For capital everyone thinks that it is just money, capital is also knowledge, capital is Slovenian language, is the preservation of our culture. And we who live in these border areas tell you that Slovenian language is not a boundary, but it is a language border. If we skip it or leave it behind, nothing will help us in the long run, we are investing in getting some people to work for us. We are also very attached in our places to Slovenians who are in place, both Hungarians, Italians and Croats, although Croats are not a minority, but we have a lot of such meetings. We have a meeting in our border area every two years with the Germans from Hungary, Austria, Italy and we meet, we hang out a little, cook some stew and tell ourselves what's bothering us. If Slovenia does, this government will make sure that we have good relations at home with the foreigners, as has been said, I do not think it will be very difficult. It has been said, gentlemen and ladies of the opposition, that they will also give their vote for good proposals. I agree. It was just a condition that if we all did, then they would also support it; it is said that such proposals are hardly necessary if we succeed. People are different, everyone thinks differently, I respect work, I respect social life, and all I know is that without respect for each other, even the one on the market who is unemployed – they have their dignity. Now we've solved this with public works, well, we've solved it, we've done our best, and even in the local community, it's been huge. If this is a long-term solution, I don't know, but it's certainly a step in the right direction so that people, those who are unemployed, can feel needed, and if you take them into society, you've given them a step forward. Therefore, even when I am on the Social Committee, it seems to me that we are on a good path and along with these ideas that we will draw both from the right and from the left and from the middle – I have felt a bit of a shock between the two fires. We will certainly succeed with good will, with coordination, by working together to achieve many things. Slovenia is beautiful, so let us leave it, keep it, and all I want is a new government.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u125	Dr. Milan Brglez has the floor to prepare Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. mandate-holders, candidates and candidates for ministers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Let me first express my joy at being able to support this government. If things had turned out differently, even if I had been the same mandate holder, I probably wouldn't have been in this position. For this reason, I may skip what is usually the case with any Member who remembers where he was actually elected, and I will just say that this confirmation of this government is, for me, at least in accordance with what I have also advocated on the ground or in the constituency where I come from. Instead, I would like this government to try even more than it did before, or as originally conceived by the Constitution itself, to respect Parliament's constitutional position on all the issues it will deal with in one way or another. That's my wish. Usually there are compromises here, but at least if the matter works in this direction, it is what is very important to me. I am aware that such a coalition, which will rule, will require enormous time, great coordination, the timeliness of certain measures, the proper sequence of these measures and coordination. And coordination. This could be repeated for quite some time, but I think that any effort at this point is important, so that we can reach a higher level of trust through practice, which is usually, unfortunately, still diminishing. As Members – I mean in relation to the government and I think we must all be aware – we also have our own responsibility. Our responsibility does not end the moment we confirm it, but it will stretch through the entire mandate. And, in fact, the responsible conduct is to give a good thought to what we are doing, to make sure that, as I have pointed out several times in the previous term, we are able to limit ourselves to some things that are potentially less important, and to the extent that we are fighting blackmail. The practice of blackmail has never been kind to me, and I will do everything in this mandate to ensure that these practices are at least as low as possible within this Parliament. But I am obliged as a Member to be, of course, critical; first of all, self-critical. I intend to be critical first on the inside, then on the outside, and in this way I might point out two things. Whoever's recognized inside of this, okay, if none of it is, and it's fine. The first is that Members speak primarily, both by definition and in fact. In politics, we can do a lot of talking. But it is the fact that what we say and what we see says a lot about us first, then only about others and the real problems. This is one thing that is very important. Maybe a little controversy with that alternative that was being offered and that mainly coordinated around or appeared to be mainly in concern for itself, so that idea first of all, us, first of all Slovenia, then everything else. If the world acted only on this logic, then Slovenia would be in a very bad position. As a result, responsibility or responsibility for what is happening in the world will also have to be taken. So, what do we do? For what we let others do, and also for what we sometimes leave some things behind. After all, I want the new government to do its job well. And I want to do us good because we are responsible for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Get Mr. Robert Pavšič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The debate is slowly coming to an end, which is good, because we see that the Prime Minister of the Government is bored, the President of the Government of Luke Mesca is not even here. However, when a person thinks, observes and somehow looks for ways to best characterize this coalition, gives it a name, comes up on the plan anything possible. Most frequently seen and certainly the most real name is this – a recycled government. For recycling means reusing what has already been discarded. Here we have a number of ministers who have not been elected to Parliament and will be ministers. Given how you define migration and if you had no plan, you could call this government a migrant Arab, you could call it Erdogan's Fifth Column, not to say anything else. According to the results of the elections you have reached, Desus from 11 Members to five, Levi has spoken of doubling the mandates, she has received three more, the Social Democrats have seen themselves as leaders in the government, she has received eleven Members. Marjan Sarec won 330,000 votes in the presidential elections, his party now 110 000. It took him six months to lose the support of nearly 200,000 voters. It's just a coalition of losers, we can say, this is some loser coalition, as I've already written on Twitter. Yes, indeed, the Slovenian Democratic Party won the elections, failed to form a government. It did not happen for the first time, nor did it happen the last time, but I believe that the time will come when Slovenia will also get a new government. And it really makes me laugh when I listen to those words today when I see the team and when I think about the slogan of the customer List of Marjan Sharca: It's time for a new generation. Alenka Bratušek, Karl Erjavec, Miro Cerar, Jure Leben, Anja Kopač Dark, Dejan Židan. That's definitely the new generation. Maybe it's a new generation with old practices. You're saying there's no background. We know who cooperated with the list of Marjan Šarcs. Where Klemen Grošelj and Sebastian Selan are, there are Gregor Golobič and Bojan Petan. In short, it is a government of a deep state, a government that will continue all bad practices. By the way, when it comes to connections with the medical mafia, please enter the name of a member of the LMŠ and enter the name Igor Zabert. Find some connections and you will see how this health cycle has successfully infiltrated also the List of Marjan Šarc. There's probably a new generation of Sam Fakin coming to the Ministry of Health, which is about the same as letting a fox into a henhouse. In short, ladies and gentlemen, because of all of this, unfortunately I have no more time to say anything else, I cannot open this government. I can't support it either because of the poor choice of ministerial candidates and what the candidate is still then, but today, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec spoke about what he will do, and today there is no such thing in the coalition contract, and his candidates even said, Mr Medved: You know, what he said would be a good thing to do, but unfortunately we won't do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Pavšič has the floor to prepare Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u130	Mr President, thank you very much with a word. Well-known Prime Minister, well-known colleagues and colleagues! My predecessor actually completely confirmed everything I wanted to say today. The content on this side will always be in a different way. However, I must sincerely congratulate you on the ingenuity of carrying out the motives, intentions and evidence of the coalition. I mean, that's really thoughtful. Such procedures would not be ashamed in the Middle Ages in the Inquisition. This is exactly as doctors would prescribe for the treatment of sneezes – now sneeze if you dare! It works, but it makes you feel very uncomfortable. This is followed by classic spin, turn around Slovenian, distracting attention, smoke curtains, threats with higher taxes – I don't know where you got this – tension and also recycling. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much for the cultural contributions, yours. Mr. Chairman, may I? We also heard the word recycling several times. Recycling is good. Let's keep what's in, okay, and throw away what's bad. I don't see any bad stuff here and we use it and we encourage it to move on. If this is a sign of a new green policy, I am happy to support it. But the main point of the opposition is that we were able to reach an agreement. I mean, if it's our biggest sin to sit down and agree to do something, from this institution here, which unfortunately we're giving her a very bad light on my forehead today because we're arguing about completely irrelevant things instead of really talking – but really talking – about wages, pensions, health care, infrastructure, the economy, we're arguing about who said something, who didn't say anything, who didn't say what Google said, what Google didn't say. I mean, that's great! If our greatest sin is that we have been able to make a deal, then we are all sinners. Instead of an event that actually closed down the government, we're witnessing a Hollywood drama. But what's good about Hollywood? Above all, knowing about how it's going to run and how it's going to end, and we're going to have a happy end, and that's probably going to hurt a lot. However, I am glad that among your colleagues who are calm and more conservative, they are also those who have invited us to talk and talk. And that's the only right thing to do. This is the only way we can really do what we're here for: find the best possible solutions that fit both this side and this side and us that we're in. But this process must start at the beginning, not by putting the law into consideration before it is aligned with others, otherwise we will be very serious, and I will take very seriously everything New Slovenia has invested. If it's all right, I'd be happy to support it. I promise you now. Otherwise, as your leader said at the beginning when we had a presentation of the opinions of the sent groups, "as far as the country has it, we will see" – the end of the quote. And that's exactly it. The only results that will be relevant will be the results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u131	But you haven't discussed it in a way that [[turn off the microphone]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much. So in the debates it is right that we are precise and a colleague used the concept of recycling a little differently than its proper use, but I would like to read what Wikipedia says about recycling. “Recycling is the processing of waste already used in the manufacturing process.This should be taken into account for the quality of the new product, as the material by re-use may lose its original characteristics Recycling Critics point to the high price associated with it and claim that recycling often consumes more resources than it saves in the manufacturing process ” [[...]] [[...]] [[…]] I would therefore like to point out that it is right to use the concepts correctly in the debate if they are already being used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I wonder what this procedural proposal of yours was? Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u134	Thank you, Vice President. I have one procedure that will be very specific. On the Defence Committee, Ambassador Pavlšč said that the opposition had no right to interpret the coalition treaty. I now hear that the opposition must come to the coalition and comply with them before making a proposal. Such flowers will probably fade when this government is put in place and Maša Kociper comes to Parliament, trying to put bigger bullets in small bullets. I am interested, Mr Vice-President, and this is my procedural proposal or procedural question, one mandate I am already here: Can you please explain to me what the opposition's task is in this House? If, in the view of the coalition MP, we cannot interpret coalition treaties, if we cannot make proposals for laws before they are aligned with the coalition – tell me, what is the task of the opposition under the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u135	Thank you very much for the question, but I don't think this is a procedural question, it's another proposal. That's why I would just hand over the word to Mrs Natashi Sukič, to prepare the mag. Marco Koprivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u136	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I see that the temperature just before the election of the new government is already rising stronger than the moment is approaching, and I believe it will come soon. Yesterday, a strong reminder was given to Viktor Orban and his human party in the European Parliament. In fact, they gave a slap to the politicians of hatred, cruelty, demagogies and fear sowing to some of their own parties of the right political province, and unfortunately Slovenia is no exception. MEPs from the Greens have been able to demonstrate and prove that democracy, the rule of law and fundamental human rights, including the rights of refugees, are at risk in Hungary, in times of refugee crisis in particular. The Left's internal affairs policies, as far as human rights are concerned, are consistent and clear all the time and will undoubtedly continue to do so. With regard to the candidate for Minister of Interior, we have somehow found, on the basis of his presentation, that, for the time being, there will be a policy that has already begun with the outgoing minister; a policy that supports the border wire that threatens excessively with the changed security situation and that supports a tightened asylum policy. In Levi, we insist that migration is a humanitarian and not a security issue, that the wire should therefore be withdrawn and that illegal practices used by police at the border must be put to an end without delay and reported to the media and to more NGOs. It was also worrying to hear from the future minister that he was not aware of the growing neo-Nazi movements and the fascism of modern Slovenian society. And let's take a look around the environment and the space or the candidate for the Environment Minister. With regard to climate change, we drew attention to the issue of climate change, which poses a serious global threat to the planet and even the existence of human society, as we know it today. The outgoing government supported the European Commission's proposal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by only 15% by 2030, which is quite funny to think that we have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 19.2% in Slovenia in 2014 compared to 2005. This means that it has been a rather unambitious policy in this area, and we fear that, given its indecisive answers, the future minister will continue this ambitious policy. We also drew his attention to the problem of incinerators or, above all, the problem of the Anhovo incinerator. We are aware that the costs of incineration, waste treatment are high, so we are obviously still burning them in old cement plants, for example in Anhove. However, the price for this, in the future, is much higher than the price that can be measured in money. This is all at the expense of environmental degradation and, above all, at the expense of human health. Even here, the minister was quite misplaced, he could not say exactly how he would deal with this concrete proposal, but he mentioned a good example of good practice in the Vienna incineration plant, which is good. We welcome his prediction of the complete withdrawal of plastic bags by the beginning of 2019. We've been working on this for a long time in Levic. We fear only that this objective may be a little too ambitious in view of the nearness of the beginning of 2019, in particular because it announced that it would first meet with wholesalers and talk about whether they even have the capacity to achieve this goal. That is why, of course, we have also proposed to take a closer look at the European directive, which allows special taxation, as they already know in Ireland, and we hope that this plan B will somehow incorporate into its strategies if Plan A falls. However, however, I am pleased to see that, as Luke Moon has already said, the candidates and candidates for ministers may not be optimal and we will abstain from their appointment in Levica, as we have predicted, but we will not destroy them. [[…]] Because we are looking forward to having a government in Slovenia that will not – freely according to Ambassador Mahnic – Arab-Erdogan or write manifests for the country, as wrote by Ambassador Mahnic and will be glued to its Facebook profile, but will be an alternative to a policy of hatred, erosion of democracy, erosion of the rule of law and, above all, erosion of fundamental human rights, a policy that the SDS has been offering with its rhetoric for a very long time, and which would surely also implement it in this way. That is why I want a successful and successful mandate for the new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has a master. Marko, I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Marijan Pojbich, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u138	Mr Vice-President, I ask you first of all to remind those debaters in the National Assembly who are discussing everything else, but not what we are discussing today, and this is the establishment of a new government of the Republic of Slovenia. To talk about the European Parliament, to talk about what was happening there, what things were adopted there and so forth on your part, I would expect you to warn the one who was discussing it this way. [[…]] And the other thing is when we're talking about migrant policy, because I've been discussing it myself and I've seen it in this story, I would warn and ask that those who are discussing in the taxpayers' account the way that they are all, even if they are migrants who do not have the appropriate documents to do so coming into the Republic of Slovenia If they are discussing in this way if they want to, they can be accepted by him or if they can be taken home and taken care of, otherwise illegal migrants do not have access to the Republic of Slovenia in any way under our legislation and should not have entry and must be rejected. However, if Levi is so keenly rooting for these illegal economic migrants to enter our homeland, and they are pleased to be held accountable for their obligations, please. To pay for their accommodation, to pay for all that is involved, not to impose it on the Slovenian people! Nobody has that right. The Slovenian people is what I was talking about today about one third of living below the poverty threshold. [[…]] Who has the right to impose on these people that they must do something that does not comply with European rules as well?Oh, my God! Those who enter Slovenia illegally — and talk about it — must return to where they come from. By no means will the Slovenians and Slovenes work for them in the way Levits imagined. I'm sure you don't. And one day, the end of this policy will come. Once you have to know who's the one with the priorities in this country. These are Slovenians and Slovenians! The Left will have to realize that for once!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much, but I really didn't recognize the replica in your performance. Mrs Natasha, I can give you my word only if you have procedural, because there are no replicas on the replica. Do you have a procedure? It's mag. Marko Koprivc, get Mrs. Mateja Udovic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Mr President of the Government, honourable Members, all present! The government we are granting a mandate to today is bringing about a new political practice. It is a minority government that will be forced to seek wider consensus. Dialogue and consensus with this government are gaining new, greater weight. I consider this to be good and positive, unlike the leader of the largest opposition party. Dialogue will become an inevitable tool to create solutions that will have to unite us. I certainly express support and trust to the emerging government, but I also have quite a few expectations for it. I expect the government to identify, define and follow the strategic interests of the country in its work. At a time of global economic prosperity, it is essential that Slovenia withdraws from the European periphery and is firmly placed among the most developed countries in the world. On the one hand, development must be aimed at strengthening Slovenian economic products and at improving the quality of life of all citizens and citizens. I expect a higher standard of living, which is inseparably linked to the level of personal income. Here I especially point out those with lower incomes, so I particularly welcome that one of the measures taken by the new government is also raising the minimum wage. The payment for the work done must provide people with at least a decent life and the payment for the past work must be provided by a decent age. It is the State apparatus that must ensure that, regardless of the circumstances, we all receive a quality public education system, effective health care, the trust of a worthy judiciary, not least a quality and healthy living environment. After all, it is also very important that, I am sure that the new government will defend basic civilisation standards and standards, which are, after all, also the values of the European Union, to try to curb the policy of intolerance, lies and intimidation and hate speech, which we regret today in this Chamber of democracy all too often. In summary, the new government has my support, I will support the government, and at the same time, I wish the government the best. Good luck! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u141	Thank you very much. First of all, I would apologize to Mrs Matei Udowicz for mispronouncing my last name. Here you go. You have the floor. But get ready, Mr. Željko Ciegler.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Honourable Commissioner, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today is an important day for Slovenia. It can even be historic. It's all up to us and our efforts to do better tomorrow. At today's extraordinary meeting, we will confirm the lists of candidates and candidates for ministers in the new 13th Slovenian government. Slovenia has not had a government with full powers for some time, and it is time for us all to start meeting the promises of voters, the commitments of the coalition treaty, and to start working to be good for everyone. We must strive for the rule of law and general prosperity in the country. As I monitored the hearing of candidates on parliamentary committees and later in the media, I was very pleased that their presentations and the answers to our questions were based on professional and not ideological ideas, in the field of work where the government has been successful so far, they advocated the continuity of work and the continuation of the strategic objectives. This makes me happy because they showed us that we were and that we were on the right track. In areas where there has been no real progress, they have demonstrated their vision and actions to regulate individual areas of work. The presentations were professional, well-founded and, above all, realistic. I am pleased that the candidates for ministers in the field of economy, education, justice and infrastructure, led so far by the Modern Centre Party, have argued that the departments are in good condition and will continue their planned policy or work. In particular, I would like to highlight the candidate for Minister of the Interior. His presentation of the work programme at the Ministry is the actual continuation of the work of Minister Vesna Györkös Žnidar. The Minister has so far taken care of the regulation of the Ministry and has provided material conditions for the smooth functioning of the Ministry. It has also responded well to the specific security phenomena and thus systematically ensured the security of the country and the security of all of us. The new leadership is thus awaiting the realization of the existing strategic plans, in particular the completion of all police departments. In doing so, the most important training and training of all the structures of the staff is to be carried out. The introduction of new methods and means for carrying out police work will need to be monitored. The linkage or co-operation of services within ministries is also expected to increase. We must not forget the important role the accompanying services have to play so that the police as such can act well, so I expect the candidate to seek the synergies of all stakeholders in order to ensure an optimum goal, notably by responding in a timely, timely and effective manner to all events and phenomena that threaten or undermine security in the Republic of Slovenia. The presentation of the candidate for the Minister of Public Administration was also based on a well-established concept of work in this department, which was successfully set up and implemented by the former Minister of the Modern Centre Party. The continuity of the work of the former Minister and the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the public administration development strategy are extremely important factors for the successful organisation and management of public administration. That's why I'm telling you: happy ministers, happy government. Despite the thirteen and the concerns of some. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler has the word to prepare Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u144	Honourable Vice-President, Prime Minister, Candidates and Candidates for Ministers, Colleagues and Fellows! I have participated in three hearings myself, and I must say that the ministers, such as Pikalo, Leben and Fakin, have given me the answers to the questions I have asked. Now that the government is in operation, however, it is necessary to control whether these agreements are being implemented and, if this does not happen, to take appropriate steps in democratic procedures to bring these matters to fruition. Why? In fact, the coalition group received support from the state-run elections. However, it received support in terms of changing the existing situation in Slovenia, where 90% of people are pushed into increasing inequality, income deprivation, political oblivion, and actually want one of their changes, one change of situation, and it needs to be approached immediately. That's what he's talking about, like I've read, and I've read like everyone else in this room, the coalition contract. If it is not implemented, even if it is recycled from the previous – yes, where it was not made, sorry, it has to be done. But these demands must be met with great urgency in this House, whether you are in opposition or in coalition. I believe we will be united here in a cultural, bearable, patient way. For all of this, as discussed in this coalition contract, forgive me, together we have demanded with the SDS, with the NSI and other parties, that waiting lines in health should be eliminated and more money given for health care, for pensioners, raise wages, not just minimum wage in Slovenia, raise monetary social assistance, significantly improve the position of culture, give a stronger role to the non-governmental sector, but forgive, it takes money to do so. The Left suggested resources. It proposed taxation of capital and taxation of labour. Taxation of work, this is what New Slovenia also represents and what it says, at least read and writes, also SDS. And look at the fraction, the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, supports and advises Slovenia, from Paris, not Venezuela, so the organization of the most developed Western countries established by America, France, Germany, Spain and France, and so on, says: "Tax capital, tax work." Why? To prevent further inequality, poverty, underdevelopment, because all of this does not benefit economic development. The capital in Slovenia is not taxed high. This prosecution, which started on this part of the coalition contract, is absolutely not justified. In taxation of profits, some very large economic systems in Slovenia, Revoz or SIJ, and so on, pay nothing for Revoz, for example, at 90 million profits. Hello?Oh, my God! This is the money we need in this country. And it is necessary to give the government space as soon as possible to start working and implement the coalition treaty. Above all, there's something about coordination. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u145	Thank you very much. You're a little out of time. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u146	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Once again, say hello to all your colleagues and colleagues! I may say something at the outset, although the President of the Government is not in the Chamber at this time, which I also understand, because he has been actually following this debate since 10 a.m. and there are other needs to be met. The president's performance was general in my opinion, but it was very good. In general, he actually said everything he felt at the moment that Slovenia needed. However, it is not possible for him to say a few things in concrete terms. But we have a government to prepare things through the time they rule, even in such a way that things will be very specific. Whether he was the best choice for ministers – you know, I have to say this because of the opposition. When you make up a coalition government, it takes skill, and since you need coalition partners, you behave accordingly, and of course coalition partners have their own proposals. These proposals must also be respected in some way. That is why we have as much solution as we have, and this solution is good in my opinion, and I am sure that the 13th Slovenian government will be very good and will carry out all those tasks that the government has to perform, and we will eventually be able to assess them positively. You know, I'm not going to talk about the past government and ministers who worked in the past government and evaluate them. This is some past, it's simply, simply said last year's snow and last year's snow is not worth putting in and throwing in. The coalition agreement is coming back inside the partners. And given that in this coalition contract, according to our opinion – as I have also said in the position of the Group of Members – all that is most important to us is the insurance of the older generation, that in this coalition contract it is within us, of course, that is why we then positively assess it. [[…]] However, we are well aware that for what we will spend, it must also be a source. We know that those who worked at any level, whether at local or national level, and we have adopted budgets, must be provided with resources in the budget if you want to implement certain programmes. We will also do so in this hall, and we will have to act accordingly. If we're going to make any changes, we're going to have to make a proposal where we're going to take it. Maybe just this: There was a lot of talk about who should rule. The relative winner is the first to get the chance, but unfortunately he didn't take advantage of it. Now let me put it this way -- not the most appropriate word -- as you sow, you reap. I come from the village, and I know that very well. Of course, this time we wished or wished for what you sowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u147	Here you go. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u148	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My procedural proposal is to warn my predecessor not to mislead us, Members and Members here in the Chamber, and also all those who accompany this meeting by television. Why am I saying this? He said, Mr Jurša, the leader of the Desus Group, that the previous mandate was the past. In the Slovenian Army, the budget is reduced by 47% within ten years, your president has always been a signatory to this coalition contract – is that the past? In one term, which you mentioned as the past, one battalion of soldiers left the Slovenian Army. Now we are going to diplomacy, in the previous term, Mr. Jurša, are all things resolved to Croatia and your President was a diplomat and an external minister – and this is the past for you? You don't want to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sukich wanted procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u150	President-in-Office, I really ask that the procedural proposal really be a procedural proposal, but not that Members of the SDS say procedurally, they suggest something in this direction, and then they have whole debates. This is the same as if I had said procedurally before – what I said, and I gave up – and then I would have said why I used the European Parliament's comparison, that I applied to our reality and so on, but I gave it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u151	Maybe I should [[…]] Tell me, Mr. Jursha. [[advertising from the hall]] Here's your word. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u152	At the very beginning, I must say what I propose in the process – to alert those who say something in mind. [[Laughing in the hall]] Now, no, wait! [[…]] I will remind you of 2012 – how much did we raise the budget for the military at the time, and what was the main party that led the government?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u153	Let me say before I give my word to the next one that we are going slowly to the conclusion of the debate. Before he gets the word of the Prime Minister, there are only two other discussers. I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič and prepare Mr Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u154	Mr President, thank you for your floor. I must also express this expectation that these so-called procedural applications will be applied in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that everyone who wishes to use it will also explain where the rules of procedure have been breached. As far as today's subject is concerned, this is the vote on the list of candidates for ministers and ministers, I admit that under some circumstances we have witnessed some of the composition of the government that we have not yet had. We have a so-called minority government, in the past, much has been said about whether or not the coalition is with Levica. I'm sure that's not the case, not least I'd like Levica, if she were in the coalition, to come into the coalition to take on some of her responsibilities and even one of the responsibilities, but we don't see it. It is more than obvious that in each of the projects set out in the Coalition Treaty and then in the additional document, we will have to coordinate and that this will require further efforts to implement policies that are urgently needed. Given that we have witnessed the success of the economy in the past period, the reduction of unemployment, our expectation is that, in the past, the modern centre Party's expectations that those trends that have been positive will continue in the future, but that in those subsystems where progress has not been the way we wanted it to be, it will prove to be working in the next mandate. It is precisely in this that it is the responsibility of the entire coalition to approach the work with responsibility for trying to gain a wide variety of projects in the first place, in the event of the will of other coalition partners. What is the difference between the previous mandate and this mandate, however, is that this climate, this speech with which political and social space has become increasingly radical, and it seems that it will become increasingly difficult and difficult to negotiate in such an atmosphere. Our ambition is to somehow calm our passions here, to realize that Slovenia is not a third world country, but one of the most developed countries in the world, that it is also one of the most green and one of the safest countries. The environment in which we live is not what we often want to appear in the media, where some unrealistic expectations of people are created. On the contrary, we live in an environment that is much better than in neighbouring countries. As regards the individual departments or the presentation of the candidates we witnessed at the so-called hearings, our Group's position is such that the candidates for ministers and ministers have made good presentations. Of course, such an assessment can be very relative, slightly lower, but we had expectations from those who may have been in politics for the first time, and those higher expectations have certainly justified all those candidates who have been in politics for a long time and who have been significantly more sovereign at their hearings or presentations. Even today, the first government meeting, I am sure that we will soon witness one similar scenario, as we witnessed in 2014, is that already in one of the following public polls – I think it was already October or November, about a month after the composition of the government – public support to the government has fallen significantly. By alerting or appealing to all candidates and, of course, to the future Prime Minister of the Government, do not let this scare you if you justify all the expectations expressed by all Members on the committees of the past week, you will enjoy all the support of this National Assembly. We also expect you to respond to all the social events that we have witnessed more and more in the last month and that these will also find appropriate solutions in the policy of the future government. On behalf of the Group of Members, I wish you a successful work, a lot of patience and, of course, a lot more effort in negotiating between all coalition partners, including with Levica and other parliamentary groups, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Janša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that again. Although we have saved these two minutes to add something to Slovenia's vision presented in one year, two years, three years, four years after the end of this term, but the President of the Government has not answered any questions all this time. Maybe it'll end when it's impossible to answer anymore. We have also experienced this in the National Assembly, and it is not surprising, so that I can comment only on what has been said. At times, we seemed to love the mayor of Upper Poland or the president of any province we did not yet have, so many roads were listed and all that. And that's mostly one of those customers who could've built these roads a long time ago. I must say, however, the most interesting concrete implementation of a party member who has been in power for about 70, 80 years has been about what road he is driving to Ljubljana. Look, a little serious at a time like this, even though he used to remind a little about tragedy, but we'd expect it. The third development axis would have been built a long time ago, even if it had not been built by this party, which now exposes it, only if it had allowed the others to do so normally. But apart from doing nothing on her own, she did not let others do these things. In view of some of the forecasts that have been made here today, it seems that this policy will continue. We have debated here, I don't know, seven, eight, nine hours, but we still haven't heard a single sentence about how the coalition, which today takes over executive power to the full, represents Slovenia in one, two, three or four years.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which the President of the Government, Marjan Sarec, gets the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! True, we sat around all day, which is usually the case. I listened attentively, even though some assumed I was bored. I'm not bored at all because I have the decency to hear more things at the same time. We heard what was expected in the debate. Of course, the coalition wants everything good and the opposition sees everything poorly both in the staff and in the visions as in the contract as well as elsewhere. This is nothing surprising, nothing that would not have happened in this temple of democracy in the past. I will remember the debate and try to follow a lot of things. Some of the debates were more ideological, others were more roadlike than Mr Janša correctly found out, but, last but not least, roads are also important for everyday life, so I do not consider it bad for him if he did so. First of all, I thank the opposition for telling them what is on their soul. Of course, sometimes it's a pool about foxes and sour grapes, but that's the way it is. Thank you very much for your discussions. Many of your debates are held, but many are far from the truth. I also thank the coalition Members and Members, who have discussed constructively, who wanted this government to succeed. Last time we talked about this government for three months. At first, it seemed like we were just going to talk, and then we made a deal. Of course, tomorrow we will be reading in the media all kinds of how a mandate-holder or the President of the Government has no idea how the team sucks, how the elections will be in six months. All that we will listen to will not surprise us, so we are already used to it, even though perhaps our client has not been on the state floor so far, which some like to highlight as the only saving one. But it is true that matters are being decided here, and I believe that this coalition will be able to lead the country so that it can find answers to certain questions. It is true, however, that if these issues have not been resolved in the years of autonomy so far, misreceipts in the past may have been possible, but a new approach must also be taken. Here inside this temple of democracy is being debated, and so I expect to be in the future. Of course, I'm not utopian to expect this government to have 100 days of peace, not at all, since it hasn't already been there. So I look forward to the debate. Today I will not dispute with anyone, because I think there will be enough opportunities for this in the coming term, even in view of today's debate. Once again, I would like to thank and look forward to working with all ministers and ministers. I believe they'll do their best to get the results in the end. However, I agree, as it has been said today, that those who speak ill of one another first say the worst of all about themselves. So that's exactly what I'd give for a passenger in my new term of office. We will not agree many times, but let us be cultural and raise the level of speech to the level that our country, citizens and citizens, as members of a country that is a member of the European Union, deserve. Thank you all very much and good luck to this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u159	Thank you for your discussion. Dear Members, honourable Members, all of you have received the floor, but at the same time I note that the time set for the debate has not yet expired, so I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss the matter under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Yeah, we got a report. Nevertheless, allow us to initiate the application, so that the possibility of applying for an additional debate begins. Anybody wants to sign up, please. Then there's two of them. Does it have to be repeated? Then I would suggest – Mr. Chernač, you are the first to raise your hand, at the same time two others have been reported – to follow this order, Mr. Chernač, Mr. Jožef Lenart [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] But we can do it again if you want. Ladies and gentlemen, I am once again collecting applications for further discussion. Here we go. We have six reports. Given the time available, I find [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Aren't you? Then we'll try again. Your Honor, I'm starting to have eight applications. [[…]] Depending on the time available, this means that each debater has five minutes of time available. As the first to speak, Mrs Carmen Furman and Mr Joseph Lenart are being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! Today we are witnessing a scenario in the creation of a recycled ministerial team, with which you, Mr. Sarec as the main actor, managed to outsmart Slovenian voters and voters. In the excellent pre-election tragedy of the previous government troika in the composition of SMC, SD and Desus you managed to sell Slovenian public as a new generation man. Certain people believed this, including some of our generation, but the elections are over and the coalition combination shows that the future government will consist of six parties, with half of the government representing a right-wing government troika. The list of future ministers reveals mostly well-known political faces, despite the fact that in your pre-election meetings you have still firmly stated that Slovenia needs the opposite. A lot of us may be surprised, but I can't believe how fast, Mr. Sharpe, you've taken the word. Today you are offering us an etablished left-wing political team, which has been ruling for decades and which you have been helping her regain power. You can convince us that you work for the people, but if your coalition had a real intention to work for the good of Slovenia, the coalition treaty would be a serious document that would show a serious programme with clearly defined objectives, especially the financial and time-bound definition of the measures implemented. For the social sector alone, you have the expected small sea of social transfers, and I fear that not only will the nominal taxation of capital gains be forecast enough, but the latter will also hit every working citizen in his pocket. Of course, it's social. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u161	Mrs. Carmen, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow Mrs Carmen to speak in peace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u162	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, social transfers are necessary, but let us make an order already in this area so that these transfers really come into the hands of the people they really need. The established system in practice allows for many abuses and by raising social transfers you will not solve the issue. It is necessary to establish control, and sometimes it would be enough to have a view of the parking space when some in front of the social work centre arrive with luxury cars for social assistance. What Germany did to such con artists, I believe you know. Such positive practices and the example of foreign countries should be followed by your government team. This is the only way we could break every day the greater bureaucracy of public administration, the intransigence of public calls, customerism and so on, but unfortunately nothing inspires me with optimism. Today it is only obvious that this new recycled government will be confirmed by a coalition of six parties, and then, Mr Sarec, your time will come when you face reality. All the cameras and all the expectations will be in your line of work. I wish you a successful job for the benefit of all of us, and I really hope that at the end of this term we will not all find together that Cerara's government has not been the worst ever. It will also be a time when you will no longer be able to hide behind the characters of politicians you love and love to imitate. You also liked to imitate the President who ruled the period 2004-2008. I hope you've learned something from him on this. Given the current course of events, I'd be surprised if you were half as successful as he was then. According to the coalition contract, the ministerial team, the planned secretaries of state and the announced economy, you have unfortunately a poor starting point for such a half-success. [[Incomprehensible]] I'll just say happy Slovenia, this time you'll need happiness in the right sense of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Jožef Lenart is next, and Mr Zvonko Chernač is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u164	Thank you. Dear President, Honourable President of the Government, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! Any democratic, successful, social modern country should act transparently and, of course, provide a friendly and flexible environment for successful business. If we want a social state where both the worker and the pensioner will live a decent life, then we need to create enough resources to make enough money to share it. So when GDP is good, high, when there are enough resources available, our work is not difficult, it is said, it is not difficult to divide, it should not be a problem. If everything is shared fairly and transparently, and this is also our work, and also the work of the future government will be to distribute these funds, but of course it provides a favourable business environment that brings money to businesses, to the tax country, to have something to manage, to share that we will have good public services for people. Now to a serious question: Have we been successful in this work so far? No, we were not, and the last government, and some before it was not successful, because in our country, we are employing quickly, poorly, in all public important, decisive and decisive functions. When it seems to us that a poor minister for some department could no longer be chosen, that is exactly what happens again. It is interesting that all other companies and institutions operating in such an environment do this work better than the state, and that is not right. Some of us have already tried out in entrepreneurial waters, so when in our language, society, farm or just some project we need new labour or additional labour, we all do our utmost to give this job the best, most qualified person, especially where it comes to leading jobs that decide our long-term future, our success. So the most decisive and decisive jobs in the country should be staffed by the most qualified, reliable employees, workers, secretaries, ministers. If I touch this, I now see that we continue or continue to make poor staffing with this list of candidates for ministers. In fact, in this extremely important exercise, the heads of the coalition competed with each other to complete the quotas in advance — even without a coalition agreement — of agreed resources instead of who would actually offer or choose from their most suitable and qualified person for a minister or minister. Unfortunately, I must say that in some cases, you have also successfully rewarded your unsuccessful but sufficiently tested individual staff of ministers from the previous government. What will be in my eyes and also in your electorate is that you want the government at all costs, that is, the government, whatever it may be. Satisfying, successful, very successful, so finding out is not the primary plan or too much for you to analyze. In the light of the presentations made by the six-year-old coalition ministers, have all but one been assessed as appropriate – will they also be successful? I think candidate Erjavec is already a little tired, without real will and generally too determined to be a successful Minister of Defence. Furthermore, the candidate for work, family, social affairs, very slow presentation, no real energy for change. Some candidates, however, seem even frightened, perhaps upright, with a spine that can persist on its way to the finish line. What would happen if one of the imaginary partners quietly strains them by hand or maybe throws prey under their feet, as was the case in the previous government? Of course, not all candidates are bad, but for the most part I have a feeling that they will find it difficult to meet the difficulties of working and driving between the poles, especially in the number of demands of all six client heads whose names will have quite equivalent weight in their aspirations and demands. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u165	Mr. Lenart, thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač is next to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! In the first part of the debate, colleagues and colleagues have already talked about the electoral system, about the inadequacy of the electoral system, which is one of the main reasons why we are looking at what is happening to us today when, on the one hand, the weight of the electorate is twice as valuable as, on the other hand, when about the same number of voters elects the 52 ballots that will confirm today, either explicitly or silently, the government of Marjan Sarca, and on the other hand this same number of elects only 25. That is why I would no longer talk about this today, but I would like to make a few words about this election outcome, the hundreds of days of empty running after the elections and the government, which on the one hand represents the recycling of the former government, which has decisively lost the elections despite the inadequate electoral system and which, on the other hand, is spicy with incompetent candidates. This, of course, raises the question to all of us first, whether this is really an expression of human will, the will of the people who expressed it on June 3rd in the elections. It's not! It's not. The people voted in favour of the amendments on 3 June, and this was also understood by the President of the State, who gave the mandate for the composition of the government to Janez Janša. He invited in writing all the parliamentary groups represented in the Slovenian Parliament and the six-member government of Marjan Šarc today, he was not even ready to talk. That's why all these big words about conversation, dialogue is useless. So today we are getting a government that will copy pasta with some additions, and with the President, sorry, which is not clear, whether it is aware that this time it is not an imitation. It is not clear what we have heard so far and what we are looking at today. We are getting a government in which Karl Erjavec and Alenka Bratušek will be elected by the electorates to Parliament. In some normal diplomacy, I would say goodbye to politics because people don't trust them anymore. In addition, glue, which currently holds six political groups together, is not the interests of the State or of the people, but the interests or concerns of its own chairs and positions. And that this theatre will be perfect, there is a super-coalist Left, who, just weeks ago in this reference, objected to the sale of the Taiwanese money launderery to the New Ljubljana Bank, and now supports the government that will make this sale in the coming months. For the voice which is withheld from this side today is a voice for this government. That's probably clear to all of us. So we have a period of lost opportunities, higher taxes, further escape of the brain or young people abroad, a time of empty passwords, and a time of persecution for those who think otherwise. And in this part, unfortunately, it's not about imitation. This has really started to happen today. In whose interest does this happen if we ask ourselves? Certainly not in the interest of the people. However, the government, which does not have support in the electoral outcome, will find it very difficult to have the basic legitimacy necessary to manage the country successfully and effectively. A few more words about the coalition contract, which is general, inaccurate, has no objectives set, we do not know if anything will be achieved in it, what results will be in a few years, in a year, two, four years, so it is difficult to say anything about it. But there are also some concrete things. Some of them are very funny, for example, today's debate was very much focused on plastic bags. With more than 10,000 tons of waste, with which we do not know where, the emphasis was also given in the coalition contract, excuse me, plastic bags. Look, big merchants are already doing this. Within one year, this matter will be concluded with or without the Government. On the other hand, there is a concrete commitment that will not be made. There won't be a hydro power plant on Mura, it won't, because biodiversity is preserved. Our neighbours Austrians apparently destroy nature, and every year they have more tourists, tourism and everything else, on the river Mura and tributaries they have 35 hydropower plants. 35. The coalition contract says there won't be one on Muri. And a few other things would be to say about what's not going to happen. So we have a time of lost opportunity. However, it is also a coalition contract, which is still in the clouds, as one of the candidates for the minister has expressed himself and is later reformed, "not in clouds, not in clouds". So neither the program nor the people have convinced, so such a government cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor, Mr Boris Doblekar is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u168	Thank you. First of all, I said in the introduction that I will not support the Prime Minister today. In particular, I must say that I am extremely disappointed, and I may have said that today, I think that when I said that not as a Member, even as a citizen who listened to the last few minutes that our future Prime Minister had at his disposal, there was not a single single word and a solution in his words. There were hundreds of questions raised, and Mr Šarec has brought down our torches, from which we cannot live, nor can we die. But I'd like to take this opportunity because I got a little angry with the replica earlier, and that doesn't happen to the MP, but it does happen when you experience the disappointment of disappointment at the temple of democracy in our country. I simply cannot believe and cannot understand, but of course I would expect this government, which is now in existence, to care for Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, first and foremost. I think that for every individual sitting here, it's a primary task, or none of us in the National Assembly has anything to look for. However, I have to constantly listen to the fact that the primary nature of the illegal economic migrants who cross the Slovenian border is illegal, but it seems true to me that the matter goes through every possible edge, and I am convinced that everyone sitting here, namely in this Slovenian Parliament, is aware of this – that Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens are the ones who fill the budget from which we feed all those who sit in here are fed by the whole state and public sector, and that we need to take care of our people, those who live under the threshold of poverty, for those who, as I have said before, are the pensioners who survive a month of 500 years ago, and we have not been able to take care of them. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have made very clear in our programme how we would solve these problems and the situations that this recycled government has brought us into. Respected and respected, future Prime Minister, I count on you to have my words, and these have been sincere, memorized and in this spirit also act for you Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the first meaning and true meaning of the word. I hope and believe that all Members and Members of this coalition, together with Levica, despite having provoked me before, understand what I am trying to say. This is what our citizens and citizens and our Slovenians and Slovenians expect from you. On behalf of citizens and citizens, Slovenians and Slovenians, I ask you to do so in the next four years or as many years as you will be in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the word, get ready for Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u170	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! At the very beginning of this five-minute debate, let me put my views and my questions to the candidates on the individual committees, where I am a member, at the same time raise or expose them to the President of the Government, who, I believe, will probably not answer them at this time, but nevertheless. The government of six parties has come together, we all know that, we have already talked about this many times, and I must say that I might even support or support the candidate for the Prime Minister as a colleague who worked at the municipal level as he did at the congregation level. However, because Mr Sarec has formed a government and has put ministers in it who were part of the previous government, which has fallen apart, which has caused a lot of problems for our Slovenia, I cannot support such a government. People have voted for change in the elections and this has also been clearly demonstrated by the Slovenian Democratic Party's making the most of the votes. Unfortunately, this proportional system has caused what we are currently monitoring. Of course, a new attempt has also created a new face that will work with old structures from failed governments and many Members and Members of Parliament, who have participated in different parties, from one to the other, which would cause me to doubt that you are working or working in favour of Slovenia. I wonder if there is any hope that this recycled government will work for the benefit and well-being of people and taxpayers, and especially of small people, who you are mentioning on many occasions, whether they will, and if, how will we feel about these changes for the better, as we are hearing many times. These questions are quite vague, and we have not received all the answers at the hearings of the ministerial candidates themselves, which I would like to see here today, of course, so that we may learn something, what we have heard, and it would probably be very nice if we took the time — some of them are among us in a situation, but some are not. I find it very difficult to see the President of the Government here alone for this omizance. I also wonder whether this government, or the President of the Government, with its ministers, will be able to sway into different lobbying, privileges and will make order and introduce discipline in all areas where more or less domestic work is done. I would very much like to point out once again, as I have done many times before, that it would be very good for the country to have this money lying everywhere — we have heard that it is a very poor use of spending — I have dedicated to the congregations so that they can cut off a larger portion of the cake, for the congregations are those who then work for the people, especially for those small people you mention so many times. We know that the congregations take care of everything from infrastructure to water, not to mention everything. However, the state knows where it is giving money or where it is going from the state budget through different flows to different accounts and so on. I wish that this government would be successful so that the Prime Minister of the Government would know this assembly of six parties, including the Coalition Left, who, among other things, when he spoke to us, did not look when he spoke about the opposition, he was looking at us only I wish that the President of the Government would successfully lead the government and also do as much for Slovenia as possible with our proposals. [[…]] I will support all the good proposals, as our President mentioned earlier in the introduction, and the rest, which he will not support, of course I will not support. So good luck to the government, and I hope that in four years, if not earlier, there will also be a day of results that we can capture.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u171	Thank you. Dr. Ange Logar has the word, and Mr. Janez Janša is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u172	Thank you very much, President. I was a little surprised, but above all, I was disappointed at the government's response to today's debate here in the National Assembly. It seems to me that some wasps have turned needlessly on the opposition. Mr President of the Government, you do not have to fear the opposition, the opposition will make well-intentioned proposals and I suggest that you support them, otherwise you cannot because of the agreement with Levica, because you must ask them first if you can support them, but nevertheless, significantly better and easier and more sustainable proposals will come from this side and the main problems will come from this work [[shows with gesture]] Parliamentary Halls. The content of your contribution was not particularly rich either, but I would like to draw attention to the three statements you made in the introduction. You used to call on them to tell you how to mess things up. Look, if someone's smart enough for you, if anyone has come forward, the economy has come forward, and the President of the Government says, "we are smart," and then the president of one coalition party says, "we will not allow," something in this direction, "the economy, that will influence how we will run the country," forgive me, is not a real message to the economy. You said, "I want this government to have contact with reality." I think that's a slightly unusual statement. So you don't know if she has it or not, you just want her to have it? And if you say: “Elaborates of the assessment studies are only fine letters on paper, but we need concrete measures”, let me remind you that you have six analyses and twelve strategies in your coalition contract, which is contrary to your coalition contract. I hear it's a recycled government. It is quite interesting to me, so I went to look at the SSKJ and writes as follows, recycling according to the SSKJ: “Re-use of already used waste materials in the manufacturing process.” So Cerar, Erjavec, Bratušek, Židan, Leben, Škoberne, Katič, Digač Dark and so on – essentially what holds, the reuse of already used. The recycled government is therefore a credible expression of what you are offering us, Mr Sarec. What is the main problem with this government? The main problem with this government is that it's based on lies. On the lie that Levi is an opposition party, even though we all know it isn't. It's a lie that it's a minority government, even though we all know it isn't. It's a lie that it's a government supported by most people, even though we know what public opinion polls say. On the lie that it is a government of new faces, even though we all know it is not, and on the lie that it is a left-handed government, even though we all know that it is a left-hand extreme left-wing government. There will also be many interesting complications. The constitutional lawyer and Professor Cerar will have to ask the copycat first if they can do it, but then together they will have to go to the eternal student if they can actually bring it through the National Assembly. You know, it's gonna be a lot of interesting complications in the coming term. I'm concerned about some of the notes in the coalition contract. For example, I was very surprised that the judiciary did not suddenly resist when you entered into the coalition contract: the trial mandate of the judges. Then it became clear to me that the old judges who had committed mass violations of human rights would end up assigning to that young judge or to that young judge if he met the conditions if he was a legitimate, permanent mandate and the ministry was headed by a minister under the SD quota. This is indeed a “nice journey” to improve the protection of the rule of law. And that, the last defender here who actually had unwise decisions in appointing judges, the National Assembly, you want to hand over to the judges themselves. Truly “nice”, then we will influence or can have any influence at all on the good work of the courts and the rule of law. As far as the coalition agreement is concerned, it is extremely interesting. In the preamble, at the outset, you write that you will act on the basis of parliamentary democracy and democratic standards, and the President of the National Assembly – his first act is contrary to parliamentary democracy and democratic standards when – he rejects the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Not to mention that, because there was something about talking about the nonsense in this coalition contract. Let's say inside a problem: abuse of the hospital; solution, action: we'll find a solution. “We will tighten the ban on chaining contracts” and if it is prohibited, how will you tighten the ban? And this one is the best: “Public administration”, you have to listen – does anyone understand what you will do in public administration? “We will encourage the public sector as a whole and local self-government to introduce similar principles of action and the same objective.” Can anyone tell me that? Mr. Bandelli, did you write that? I don't really understand what you wanted to sign or write in this coalition contract, but I'm concerned that this is signed by the five champions of the parties. You know, that's what I'm worried about. That's how the text is signed by five party champions. I'm sorry, I don't understand this, and because of these signatures, I don't have much hope and confidence in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr Janez Janša has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that again. This debate today has shown that we are obviously the only ones on this side of the opposition who have read the coalition treaty. For a while there is still time to fix the exam, although, honourable Mr President of the Government, in a few hours or minutes, the lights on the stage will be turned off and the game will be over, and real life will begin. It's a little different from the different scenarios you write yourself. So personally, I have to say, after this discussion more worried than I was at the beginning, then we allowed some options, we asked some questions, we were hoping that someone here would present a vision for this mandate, but we didn't see it coming at the end. I have already experienced one such situation, at a time when the Liberal Democracy paradise was the last time that the government was formed, and at that time, about the same time, it was done with its left hand, without the presentation of the programme. The difference with that time was that at the time it was a party with 34 Members and she thought she could afford it and 60 % of public support. The situation is very different now. Moreover, those who were strong and with high public support did not benefit from such behaviour because it was the last time it formed the government, and today it is nowhere else, only the debts for it remained. I don't know, maybe the President of the Government has estimated that less when he says it will be less critical, it will be easier, but I think today this meeting is not just for us, but for the Slovenian public. The government to be appointed should be of all, not just six parties to the government coalition, and this was a little underestimating. I allow, of course, the possibility that the President of the Government, the coordinator of the Government, would not allow anything more to be said about what would be done in the future. As has been said before, this government has a weak legitimacy for various reasons, not just for support and so forth, but for playing with this notion of a minority government, if that is even better, shows this embarrassment. Additional to the sky, which is of all the noticeable weaknesses of this legitimacy, is shown in people who are now proposed to the government team, and at the elections in their districts on 3 June they received a massive low number of votes, 300, 500, 600. The Slovenian Democratic Party, however, did not elect the people who received 3,000, 3,000, 500 votes. They didn't get voter confidence in Parliament, where we're 90, and now they're gonna be sitting on a government team where there's 16. If this is a strengthening of legitimacy and democracy, then we are not thinking the same. Even this fragmentation of government, six small parties together, an old Slovenian proverb says, if you put on a lot of poverty, you don't get a fortune yet. Especially if the masters are the same; so the bad prospects. What has been most worrying about these debates today is this arrogance to the most creative work of this society or nation. It means economy, entrepreneurship, those who actually create what the government is proud of, high economic growth, billions, subsidies and so on. It was said: economists have nothing to do with politics. Really? Where do we live? Article 1 of the Constitution states: Slovenia is a democratic republic. Everyone has the right to deal with politics, everyone. We don't have a special caste to deal with politics. That's how it used to be. Today I wondered what would have happened if someone here on our side said it, from SDS or New Slovenia, what a defeat would have been over him. And here it's all treated like a little lapsus and so on. In short, the travel that the government is getting today is not good. The opportunity to improve has been lost today and can therefore be regretted.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u175	Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u176	Thank you, President. When I finished my contribution, Mr Bandelli turned to me and said: "You will get back." Given that this will be a minute or two or ten minutes from now a representative of the executive branch of power, please, if you can, as long as he is still a Member, as President of the National Assembly, invite him to say so in the microphone, that is to say that it is recorded and that he also tells him how he expects or prepares me to get back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u177	I cannot accept this procedural proposal, even because I have not heard it. Thank you. As the last one gets the word, Mr. Jan Mahnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u178	Thank you, President. I remember one platoon of Members, 36 of them sitting here, and of these, 36 are today only three. Mrs. Slug, Mr. Rajić, and Mr. Zorčič. What all needed to be heard for four years, words about progress, words of excitement, and if today we look at how many there were then, how many there are today, and if we look at the leading party that 13 Mr. Sarec has, if you want to be in politics in four years, I advise you to run for mayor of Kamnik in November. [[…]] As far as the coalition agreement is concerned, I would expect the coalition treaty to be some kind of action plan, but not a collective definition that we will examine, that we will review, that we will analyse, like the previous coalition agreement. What is most tragic about this recycled government, however, is that it says all about this coalition that on the Defence Committee, Mr Karl Erjavec said that he had read in preparation for the hearing the Mid-term Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2018-2023 and that he could not believe what he was reading. The government of Mir Cerar has promised three times that we will have 2% of GDP for defence by 2024. This SOPR document states that we will have 1.11% of GDP in 2023. And the Minister of Defence said: “If this is true, then we will no longer have an army.” But Mr Erjavec is the one who supported this document in the government of Mir Cerar. He voted in favour of a document for which he then said at the hearing: “When I read it, I couldn’t believe.” Similarly, Mr Cerar, who was the boss of Mr Erjavac, who could have replaced him if he wanted to, did not, said at the hearing that he would lead a more balanced foreign policy. Thus, the current foreign policy has not been sufficiently balanced in your opinion and you have tolerated it. And I could count it, and I could list it. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this special status of the Left, the super-collective party, Prime Minister Luke Mesca somehow suggests how this deep state represents a continuation. You formally left them in opposition — why? Because if, by chance, a deep state does not find a candidate until the next elections, it is likely that the president of any local community where the party will be established, then the Left is a spare option for an alternative to the current government on the left. And Mr. Sarec, when you were talking about a new generation, you went into politics because you wanted to change, I suppose - is that right? How can someone go into politics because of dissatisfaction with the current government, with the current government, and then make a coalition with them? This is as if colleague Marijan Pojbič, who will be on 18 November, I believe he became mayor of Šentilja, who is running for office because he is not satisfied with the current mayor, then he made a coalition with him. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in possession of yourself, and you are deliberately holding back the confidence of citizens and citizens in our political system. But because something is certain, it is higher when you participate in the elections, it gets more to the right. We can go from 1991 on, that's a fact. And that's why you didn't want to go into coalition with the Slovenian Democratic Party, and this government is also kind of a media product. Some directed affairs that have not been touched — what can you do? Yes, nothing, we will say what I know, Petri Krčmar, who is certainly in her interest that the government of Janez Janša does not come, because her sister has a good function in the New Ljubljana Bank, that she is half an hour in the confrontation asking who you will make a coalition with and why not with SDS. Other journalists, especially POP TV, who are involved in one way or another with Borut Jamnik, with some piranha from now on, in recent minutes – the former Ministry of Agriculture, in resignation and so on. In short, I will not support this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u179	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members, this concludes the debate. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers and ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers as a whole. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly appoints Mr Mark Bandelli to be the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion; and Dr Andrei Bertonclja as Minister of Finance; mag. Mr Alenko Bratušek as Minister of Infrastructure; Dr Miroslav Cerar as Minister for Foreign Affairs; Mr Peter Jožef Česnik as Minister without a department responsible for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia worldwide; Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac as Minister of Defence; Mr Sam Fakin as Minister of Health; Ms Andrejo Katič as Minister of Justice; Mag. Mr Ksenija Klampfer as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities; Mr Juret Lebna as Minister of Environment and Space; Mr Rudija Medveda as Minister of Public Administration; Dr Jernej Pikal as Minister of Education, Science and Sport; Dr Aleksandro Pivec as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food; Mr Zdravka Pavlovalska as Minister for Economic Development and Technology; Mr Boštjan Poklukar as Minister for Home Affairs and Mr Dejan Prešiček as Minister for Culture. Does any parliamentary group want to explain the voice? Thank you. Does any Member or Member wish to explain the voice? Thank you. By this, we are voting on the proposed decision, with respect and respect. The vote is about to begin. We're voting. There were 88 Members and Members present, 45 Members and Members voted against. 34 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 34.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are appointed. I invite ministers and ministers to occupy the seats assigned to the Government in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue. I sincerely congratulate ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on their appointment and wish to carry out their ministerial duties successfully. I ask the newly appointed ministers and ministers to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The first one will be sworn by Mr Marko Bandelli, Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u180	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u181	The next one will be sworn by Dr. Andrey Bertonzel, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u182	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u183	The next one will be sworn in by the magus. Alenka Bratušek, Minister of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u184	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u185	The following will be sworn by Dr. Miroslav Cerar, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u186	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u187	The following will be sworn by Mr Peter Jožef Česnik, Minister without a Resource, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u188	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u189	The following will be sworn by Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u190	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, the following will be sworn by Mr Sam Fakin, Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u192	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u193	The following will be sworn by Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u194	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u195	The next one will be sworn in by the magus. Ksenija Klampfer, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u196	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u197	The following will be sworn by Mr Jure Leben, Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u198	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u199	The following will be sworn by Mr Rudi Medved, Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u200	I swear to respect the constitutional order that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u201	The following will be sworn by Dr Jernej Pikalo, Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u202	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u203	The following will be sworn by Dr. Aleksandra Pivec, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u204	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u205	The following will be sworn by Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u206	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u207	The following will be sworn by Mr Boštjan Poklukar, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u208	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u209	Mr Dejan Prešiček, Minister for Culture, will be the last to swear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u210	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-09-13-SDZ8-Izredna-08.ana.u211	Since Members of Mr Marko Bandelli, Dr Miroslav Cerar, Mr Peter Jožef Česnik, Mr Rudi Medved and Mr Zdravko Restoršek are appointed ministers, they are temporarily unable to perform their duties under Article 14 of the Law on Members. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidates or candidates will replace those Members in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Commission of Elections will prepare a report and propose approval of the mandates to the National Assembly and report on these findings to the National Assembly. Members appointed as ministers are temporarily unable to perform their duties as Members of Parliament and therefore, on the basis of Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, are also informed of the following decision: It shall be established that Members who are temporarily unable to perform their duties as Members have assumed their functions in the Government shall cease to serve as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Mr Rudji Medved as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. They shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I invite the newly appointed ministers and ministers to the lobby of the large hall on an official photo-term. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, I conclude the 1st item of the agenda and the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
