ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, honourable Members! We begin the third session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Brane Golubović, Felice Žiža, Monika Gregorčič from 13:00 onward, Ferenc Horváth, Jani Möderndorfer, mag. Matthew Tonin, Franz Breznik, Janja Servant until 4:30 p.m. and I myself will be absent from 3 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, that is the question of the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 51 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the arrangements of the leaders of the groups of Members of the Council of 13 November 2018. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government to the members of the opposition and to questions raised by the member of the left-wing group and to the question of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or ministers must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question to which he has not received an answer may declare that he insists on an oral response. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they are excused for today: Dr. Aleksandra Pivec, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Zdravko Počivavšek, Minister of Economic Development and Technology, and Karl Erjavec, Minister of Defence, who will be absent between 13.30 and 16. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Mr Marjan Sarec will answer the first five questions. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask him the question first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Honorable Prime Minister Marjan Sarec! People, citizens appreciate health as one of the greatest values in addition to freedom, security and family. The politics itself will not solve the health problem and cannot solve it. This was clearly demonstrated by the previous government, the Government of Mir Cerar, at the end of the term and the then Minister of Health Milojka Celarc Kolar, when she was unable to solve the problems of child heart surgery and consequently the children's intensity, while also reducing waiting types and ensuring the success of Slovenian hospitals. In an effort to ensure the safety and care of children with congenital heart failures in recent years, there have been unreasonable complications. At the time of the establishment of the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease, also until the abuse of internationally recognized experts such as Dr. Gregorič and Dr. Agarwal. More. The latter even took part in the application for temporary work at the Institute. As he claimed, he didn't give up his role at all. I ask you, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, to whom patients can be trusted at all. Despite all the wishes that the children's heart surgery programme at the Ljubljana Clinical Center should be brought to life, they come on the day of the conclusion that it should be dangerous for the treatment of children. It was further complicated by the establishment of the National Institute for Children’s Heart Disease. Dear Prime Minister, you are the first to be responsible for restoring confidence in Slovenian health care and ensuring the urgent need, even if treatment is needed at home or abroad. I want to know: How are you going to save the children's heart surgery program to keep them safe for the sick children? How will the government restore people's confidence in the health system? You have a great responsibility. And as I said, you are the first to restore confidence to all people, patients, their families in a functioning, fair, effective health system in Slovenia. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I also welcome everyone to the December session. Thank you for your question. What was going on under the previous government, I don't want to comment on this here because I wasn't there, and it would be hard to add such and different judgments. As far as the current situation is concerned, it is true that Minister Fakin has been actively involved in this issue since the beginning of his term of office. Now he also announced the decision that the National Institute for Child Heart Surgery remains at the Clinical Center. Your main question or your main point, if I understand it correctly, is trust. And here we agree that we will have to regain our trust. I met Mr Gregorič alone before the government was confirmed in the National Assembly. We had a meeting, he was also present, then the future, Minister Fakin. We discussed several aspects of this National Institute for Child Heart Surgery. At the time, we all shared exactly what you say is a return to trust. When the government began to operate, it also began to do so intensively. Why the Institute is not like a separate institution is a type of cause. Some of them are also, if I say so, of a statutory legal nature, so the minister also decided that it would be better for the matter to remain at the Clinical Centre, because the Clinical Centre at this point also ensures that the programme works so that it will be able to solve all the cases it will receive. However, the problem is also the number of patients and the problem of personnel, which in the past has been quite pervasive when some doctors simply left. I also understand the move made by the previous government, which has begun to solve this problem and has just solved it by setting up a national institute. In the past week, I also met with parents or representatives of parents who have such problems. They, too, have highlighted this very trust. That's why we agreed that control is a key issue. But this is not a control that our institutions will control their own people, but that this control will be international. The meeting was of a very constructive nature, and I believe that in the future we can expect such developments, it is said to be enhanced supervision by international institutions and also the functioning of the Institute within the University Clinical Centre in such a way that this trust will be restored. Once again, I agree with you that trust is crucial, especially when it comes to medicine, because doctors are really the ones who have the lives of these patients in their hands, especially when it comes to the youngest. Here this note is even more pronounced, for everyone who has children knows how important this trust and hope is. So thank you for your question and we will work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic has a request to complete her reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government for your answer. Partly expected, especially because everything has been going on over the last week, as regards the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease, and I was also familiar with the Minister Fakin's press conference. However, I think it is important to stress that politics alone will not solve this problem, but will have to solve it with doctors. In order to resolve these problems, however, it takes systemic measures and movements that have been pending in the Slovenian healthcare system for several years. I could say it's been a few years. I can tell we've been waiting for baby heart surgery for, like, ten years. It takes about ten years of training to train a good cardio surgeon. Since we started talking, even politics has started to talk about it, we could really, in ten years, if we wanted everyone and worked in this direction, have trained our own cardiosurgeons. It seems to me that we must be aware that children's heart surgery has been slightly lower in comparison with developed countries before all these affairs. As a result, the situation gradually deteriorated, since it did not begin to resolve itself. I would like to ask you, in view of the situation and the existing situation in Slovenian health care: If and what systemic measures will you propose to improve the functioning of hospitals and how long can they be expected? I'm sure we don't have time to wait for four more years to improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u8	Yes, action will need to be taken in particular in the public procurement system, and information technology which is outdated and unrelated will also need to be strengthened. Just throwing money into the system, of course, won't solve things. We all agree here. And even with 80% of what you said, I agree. So it is a great task for us all to be aware of our responsibilities together, both as politicians and as doctors. We know that in the past there have also been requirements for individual contracts and so on. This certainly arouses the imbalance or dissatisfaction of other staff. There will also be a lot of work to be done in this area, with confidence and collective relations. Relationships in collectives must also improve. As for child heart surgery, however, I believe that things are improving there and that overnight it is impossible to train all people, as you yourself have found, if this will work systematically, and then we can expect to do it at this level in a few years, as we would like. True, though, it is a condition for all to do or do their work. Within three months, as far as this government is concerned, it is difficult to detect any significant changes. I believe, however, that we can expect a mid-term, especially if we are speeding up digitisation and thus transparency of public procurement, transparency of waiting types. Today, we do not really have the information what the waiting types really are. That's a big problem. Just spending money without knowing how it's going to be spent, where it's going to be spent, it's not going to solve it. I believe you'll say I haven't given everyone any answers, but there's actually a lot of work ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you very much. That's right. You have given some general answers, but I suggest that we also have a broader discussion on Slovenian health after the conclusion. The fact is that the Slovenian health system needs some systemic changes if we are to change it. Not only is it about the public procurement system and the information system, which is very important, I agree, outdated and imprecise, but we may also need some changes in the system's action to improve the functioning of Slovenian hospitals. We have very good examples of how some hospitals have been dug up from some difficult financial situations, and others that do nothing about it. I don't agree that the taxpayer's money goes into some kind of recovery. If the taxpayer's money goes, then it has to be on the patient's account. Above all, consider all patients, all of us who want the situation to change and we are not ready and we do not want to and we do not know if we can wait another four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Now, Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you very much. With the consent of the Marrakesh Declaration, an even greater number of illegal migrants opened the door to the road. The first channel of illegal economic migration under the cover of legality is the introduction of Shiptars into Slovenia, which began by Mr Cerar and his government. How and what are the results of this, we can see from the last entry, when young Kosovars beat Celje students, blackmailed them, and so on. However, another channel of illegal economic migration, which is under the cover of legality, goes through universities, particularly private, i.e. student visas, or through straw companies or work visas. There is increasing data that foreigners from the Middle East, Turkey, Pakistan, India, are establishing or buying in Slovenia companies that are unemployed. These companies have only an address, is a straw or a stove company, and then at the employment office they report the needs of workers who speak the languages there or, say, for a chef for Indian cuisine, for Afghan cuisine and the like. These new students or workers go to the West or work with us for a minimum wage in different warehouses of companies, apply to one address for permanent residence, where they are then at this address 10, 20, 30 or more, they ask for social assistance and receive it, and then they bring their relatives or wife, who may not even be a wife, and children who may not even be their children, because in third world countries they can buy everything for money. A permanent address also allows them to vote in local elections for the time being. I ask, Mr. Prime Minister: Do you realize these frauds that are happening? Are you aware of this influx of foreigners into Slovenia who are destroying Slovenian national beings who are fighting for their status and taking this status over to indigenous people and indigenous citizens? Are you aware of what he is doing to seduce and do social services that care for these people but do not care for their own citizens? I want to know: What measures will your government take against this form of crime and this form of illegal migration?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Now I have an official record here. On day 30. 11. In the Republic of Slovenia, 172 000 foreigners had valid residence permits, of which 144 000 407 third-country nationals and 27 thousand 666 European Economic Area citizens and the Swiss Confederation. According to the latest data of the Slovenian Employment Institute, a total of 39 000 260 work permits and consents were issued in 2018 to issue or extend a single residence and work permit. In doing so, I explain that all third-country nationals residing in the Republic of Slovenia do not need permission or consent to a single residence and work permit for employment, self-employment or work. The work permit also raises the issue of permanent and temporary residence. Let me draw attention to the fact that there is a problem in the control of whether applications at a given address are real or in the process of determining residence, which is not solely applicable to foreigners and must certainly be cut off. More will have to be done in the area of real and quality records, so that they will not be just a number that will continue to allow abuse of the system, particularly in the case of recipients of social assistance. So that's definitely what's going on. It's not true that you don't. Foreigners and third-country nationals are employed in Slovenia exclusively in job vacancies, which Slovenian companies cannot fill with the appropriate labour force because there are not enough people in Slovenia for these jobs or there is no interest. Accordingly, foreigners are most employed as drivers in international traffic, builders, welders, electric installers, chefs, tools, carpenters, workers in simple tasks, such as chefs, construction workers, processing industry and so on. On day 30. 11. 11 thousand 692 temporary residence permits were in force due to family reunification. However, the temporary residence permit for this purpose shall be issued only to beneficiaries established by the Aliens Act. The records do not keep data on the relative relationships of foreigners who are granted a temporary residence permit due to family reunification.For example, the Revoz case is known where they have the most difficulties in obtaining employees for direct production. Children's allowances. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs explains that in 2018 about 18 000 children of foreigners received a monthly allowance. The vast majority are the children of the parents of nationals of countries from the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Children must have a temporary or permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and actually reside here. The total number of eligible children is around 304 000, which means that children of foreigners represent 6.1% of the total number of beneficiaries. That would be short for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Members, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister, I hope your numbers are correct, because Slovenian media are publishing everything possible. That's how it works. 12. wrote that the share of third-country nationals is about 4%, the same day, 10. 12th, on POP TV, it was said that there are 144 thousand foreigners in Slovenia. According to data How Is Life and Slovenia – this is an official OECD publication – lives in Slovenia 17% of people born elsewhere, outside Slovenia, which means about 340 thousand people, and the United Nations portal, Migration data portal, has been writing data since yesterday that there are 244 thousand migrants in Slovenia. Does our country not know what is going on, or does our police not have the right data? We know about social services in one way or another that their data is very strange, unconstant. Given the fact that the records do not keep a relative relationship, it is all very strange. I want to know: Does our government intend to take steps to curb the criminal flow of all possible people who come to us? I think it would be absolutely necessary and it is high time to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u18	Data is on day 30. 11, like I said, and they're definitely accurate. I didn't write them at home at night. As far as the countries of origin are concerned, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 45 000 050; Kosovo, 14 thousand 291; Macedonia, 9 thousand 775; Serbia, 8 thousand 171; Ukraine, 295; Russian Federation, 80; China, 971; Montenegro, 645; Moldova, 235 and the United States, 206. Among the countries of the European Economic Area are Croatia 6 000 967; Bulgaria 1000 439; Italy 673; Germany 518; Slovakia 276; United Kingdom 224; Austria 212, Romania 188; Hungary 171 and Poland 148. These are the exact number of residence permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Given the different data I hear here, and given that the United Nations is talking about 244 thousand 800 migrants, and given that the OECD is talking about 340,000 people who were not born in Slovenia, I think it is necessary to clear this matter up in a broader debate and pour themselves pure wine. Perhaps then you can call to account those who have been guilty so far of all of this. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask that a broader debate be held on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your request will be voted on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u22	Nice greeting to all present, especially to the Prime Minister of the Government, to whom I refer the issue of the construction of the second tube of the tunnel of Karavanka. This is a joint project between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria. After years of preparation, an international invitation to tender was issued last December, which was published by Slovenian Dars and Austrian Asfinag separately but simultaneously. Both Dars and Asfinag, a highway operator in the Republic of Austria, opened offers in March. Dars received 9 bids worth between €89.2 million and €14.3 million. He selected the vendor for the price of €89.2 million, a large construction company with broad references not only to the construction of tunnels, but also to the entire transport infrastructure, from motorways, bridges, railways, airports, ports. It is a provider who employs more than 20,000 people through the companies with which he operates, and annual traffic exceeds a billion US dollars. The State Audit Commission was appealed by three unchosen tenderers whose bids were significantly higher, up from EUR 14 to 20 million. It should also be pointed out that the complainants applied for an invitation to tender with foreign partners because they themselves do not have appropriate references to the construction of tunnels of this type. The State Audit Commission found that the choice of the most favourable bidder was illegal and the decision was based on formalities, not content. The three-member Senate was ruled by members of a political party. And how did the procedures run on the Austrian side? Following the opening of bids at the same time as in the Republic of Slovenia in the spring of this year, the Austrian Asfinag signed a contract in the summer with the selected bidder for the price of €89.9 million, a similar value as on the Slovenian side, stressing that from about 8 km of tunnel, the majority is 4. 402 meters, falling to the Austrian side and to Slovenia about a kilometer less, 3. 546 meters. So the tunnel should be even cheaper. The choice of the most favourable bidder was not annulled for substantive reasons but for formal reasons. I therefore ask the President of the Government: What will you do to protect the interests of taxpayers in this case, since this tunnel will obviously pay at least 14 million more than would be necessary? What will you do to ensure that this project is not substantially overpaid? What will you do to ensure the independence of the State Audit Commission for the depoliticisation of decisions, as it is obvious that one coalition political party is in control of the State Audit Commission? And as a result: What will you do to better manage and manage public finances so that everyone, not just some, will have more of it?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you so much for asking. Talks with the Republic of Austria have begun, as you have found, long ago on this tunnel. We all agreed at the time or at the same time that those who were had to build it as soon as possible, that we needed another tube because it was no longer safe and so on. Both committees, both technical and construction, carried out all the procedures, held countless meetings and all were brought to this point in order to be able to carry out the invitation to tender. Anyone who has ever made any investment, either at the level of the State, at the level of the municipality or at any public institution or whatever, knows how these matters are going. We know that I do not already know which version of the Public Procurement Act is valid, but we all find that it is still not optimal. That's a fact, and we're all aware of that. Whoever made an investment also knows that the State Audit Commission is an independent body in which the operator or the investor cannot intervene because this would result in a drop in proceedings. We know this because those of us who have ever dealt with it know what these procedures are like. Therefore, even now, I cannot comment on concrete procedures on what is currently happening on the State Audit Commission. But I would like to see this other tube built on our side as soon as possible. Because if we are late here too, it will certainly not be good for us to exploit our geostrategic position, which is very important for international transport. The situation is similar with the second track. That you say that one coalition party is in charge of the audit committee is your opinion. If you have any specific information or suspicion of a crime or anything, please submit it to the competent authorities. As President of the Government, I can only do something in the direction of the National Assembly to further review this law on public procurement and other shortcomings that are certainly being addressed in this legislation or that legislation improves. That's how much we can all do together. But now that I'm going to the audit committee, and I'm stuck with my finger there, that probably wouldn't help anything. The Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, which you have under your influence, the opposition, has accused me, in an interview, of speaking to members of the Owl, of not knowing what I am infringing, given that Owa is actually under the authority of the Prime Minister. What would happen if I went to the audit committee and tried to do anything there. Until this procedure is completed, I find it difficult to comment. However, I hope that even if there is a cancellation of the invitation to tender and a recommitment that this will not have too much effect on the construction time itself and that there will be no undue delays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u26	It would be significantly more useful for taxpayers' pockets if we were to snorkel in these cases when it comes to money, but not when it comes to advertising in state-owned companies, where you were slubbering, whose ads state-owned companies are not allowed to publish. The Senate that ruled this matter, the second tunnel, Matthew Škabar, Tadeja Pushnar, Gregor Šebenik. Gregor Šebenik is the former municipal councillor of the Social Democrats, one of these two ladies is a candidate at the local elections of the Social Democrats, the other former secretary-general at the Ministry of Labour, the family and so on during Anja Kopač Dark. So I've been asking you about this, that some body that sells as an independent is controlled by one political option. In this particular case, representatives of one political option took part in the decision. So it is not an expert and independent decision, but an express political decision. And I asked you what, as Prime Minister of the Government, you would do to protect the interests of taxpayers, specifically their wallets, which would be cheaper for at least 14 million euros in this case. There's no answer. There is no answer to what you will do to ensure that the project is not substantially overpaid. There is no answer, What will you do to depoliticize the State Audit Commission? What are you going to do to make sure that the decisions of the State Audit Commission are not just blue skies? For in this case we have a one-step case of decision-making and no complaint. The Austrian neighbours have an appeal procedure. They had it in this case, and they've been doing work for three months. All procedures have been carried out in two stages. That's why I'm asking: In view of all these findings I have presented to you today, will you propose to amend the legislation so that everyone involved in the procurement procedures, both the contracting authority and the tenderers, will have the possibility of two-stage protection, as is the case in the neighbouring Republic of Austria, where this is not an obstacle, but a way to make investments faster and more rational?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u28	Well, because I've already talked about these things in the election campaign, because I have personal experience with this legislation, which is certainly not good in all segments. And this is where we agree. That is why I said in my reply that this legislation should be amended. I agree with you that Austria also has the cheapest and the most expensive, as far as it is known, that away and then chosen the most favourable, because only the lowest price is a very poor criterion. Even at home, when we do things, we do not necessarily choose the one that is the cheapest, but not the most expensive, but we also look at other things. I have said this before, and once again I repeat that legislation is certainly not good in all segments. That's what I said, and I also agree with you that in certain matters this will have to be changed. As far as political parties and members are concerned, you too have long been in politics, and you know that party membership is a personal decision of a person. I can't walk through institutions and watch who's a party member. If we started doing this, I don't know where we'd go. Your members are also in some institution, and even we work very well with them, so that you do not judge a person according to customer preferences, but only after carrying out his work. Like I said, if anything turns out to be illegal, file a complaint with the competent authorities, and then they're on the verge of getting things done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u30	One more explanation. In any case, it is not true that the Austrians make the most expensive offer. In this particular case, the Austrians also chose the cheapest offer. However, we have not received an answer to any of the questions. More. I think we have heard very clearly that the President of the Government will do nothing to ensure the independence of the State Audit Commission – at least the appearance of this impartiality and independence. Nor will he obviously do anything to ensure that the projects are not unduly overpaid, because in a specific case we are talking about the fact that the evicted provider, who has all the professional references for the execution of such a business as has been described, was, in view of the composition of the Senate which I read, certainly political and motivated for other reasons and not for professional reasons. He was a evicted provider who could work in a qualitative and time-consuming manner as described, including works. And the work could be done by now. Every day when they're delayed, there's additional damage. However, the additional damage will not only come from this project, which will be more expensive, significantly more expensive than it would have to be, but also from all the following projects. For this is now a signal for all those who still had an interest in working in the Republic of Slovenia not to do so. As a result, the biggest contribution to the construction of the Divača-Koper single line will be significantly greater than the 100 million project, which is the investment of Karavanka. So I think the National Assembly needs to hold a debate. If the President of the Government does nothing, then the National Assembly is the one who has to act. The National Assembly is the one who, if the President of the Government does not wish to do so, has to adopt legislation to prevent political decision-making from being politicised in such cases, which will ensure the independence of decision-making and which will not give rise to any doubt that a decision has been politically or otherwise motivated and biased, a regulation that will allow a two-stage level of legal protection. Just like our northern neighbors have this, and because of this, the procedures are no longer, they're shorter. We would do the best, given the situation in which we would be empowered to implement the Austrian side. It would have started, it would have been much cheaper than it was, and we could have saved ourselves a lot of energy. Of course, we will not do that because we are a sovereign state. But if anywhere, a joint project and a joint venture, as we have in the case of a single track running entirely in the Republic of Slovenia, would make sense in this case because it is an international project, such as the Italians and the French. But it's not here. I have not received an answer as to whether this decision of the State Audit Commission will be lifted in any way. It would be good to be. I think that, on the basis of all this, we can find that the legislation we have today opens up a wide range of corruption risks and should therefore be amended. I propose that we hold a debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will decide on your proposal on Wednesday in the framework of the vote. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. We can read the history of Slovenia as the history of weapons affairs. There was virtually no major military purchase that would not have taken place without such or other crime. Whether it is the sale of weapons to Croatia and Bosnia, whether it is the reconstruction of the T-55 tanks or the last affair of Patria. Despite this infamous history, your government, Mr Šarec, has been in a new arms affair three months after the start of its work. I'm talking about the Oshkosh armor, of course. The purchase of these armoured personnel is extremely untransparent, past public debate, beyond the call for proposals. For the first time, the public and Members were informed of this acquisition on the same day that your Minister of Defence announced the signature of the contract for the purchase of these armoured personnel. The original price, which was forecasted on 14 November, was €15.5 million. Two weeks later, on November 30, this price rose to 27 million because the Ministry of Defence somehow forgot to include weapons. Then, on December 6th, the price rose again to EUR 32 million, because again, at the Ministry of Defence somehow, ups, pardon, they did not charge VAT. In short, in three weeks the price rose twice or more. While these vehicles are not at all suitable for use in our home territory, little less than the Hummer that is supposed to replace them. For most Slovenian mountain roads, forest trains are too wide if you want, but instead they are so much more adapted for the deserts of Afghanistan, Mali, Iraq, etc. We've got a nursery, and we're buying tractors for the neighbor's field. My first question to you, Mr. Sarec is: Will you see to it that this purchase of oshkoshov ceases? The second issue is also related to the weapons that the 2019 budget, the rebalancing you are planning. Your Minister Erjavec has already announced for the second year an increase in military expenditure to the extent anticipated by the previous government until 2023. In addition, this morning, on the Committee on Finance, we discussed the framework for the budget, which explicitly states that funds will also go to NATO for commitments. So not for the salaries of soldiers, not for the resolution of their status after the year 45, not just for protection and rescue, no, for purchases by Nate's measure. And here I'm wondering: What kind of budget line is there, and what kind of weapons are there? Instead, we should give up the money [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your question. Of course, we have different views here about our weapons or our commitments to Nate, or not least to citizens and citizens, who are promised every day to be safe. In 2004, Slovenia joined NATO. At that time, she also committed to certain obligations. At that time, she also made this commitment, which was confirmed in 2010 in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which says: "The level of defence expenditure is focused on achieving 2% of GDP in the long term, and we will strive to meet the political commitments to the Alliance." The economic situation and broader social circumstances could lead to the realization of this ambition even after 2025. This was adopted in the 2010 National Assembly, so we didn't invent it. It bothers me, too, when some people always say we work for NATO. First of all, I say that the army that we have decided that we need to be a sovereign state, and therefore we must also provide security for our citizens and citizens. And this is particularly in the light of the latest developments in the world, which can happen to us, regardless of how safe we are for now, we need to do so. The military budget for the defense fell dramatically. So, from 2011, when there were 447 million euros, it fell all the time until 2015, when it fell to 350, then in 2016 to 307. But I understand why he fell. Because every time the budget debates were held, it was said that we needed something more, perhaps in your statement on butter and cannons. But this dilemma is not in place, because we cannot choose between one or the other, we need everything. As far as this purchase of quadricycles is concerned, it is a substitution, as you correctly found, of worn-out hummer. These quadricycles are already being used today, and no one will be further developed. True, here we agree that the numbers were first different because not everything was taken into account, but this final number is and is not 100 million, as you said in your statement at the time. So we definitely need these quadricycles. However, I have also told Mr Stoltenberg that by 2024 we will not reach 2% of GDP. I'm sure you don't. Until then, our goal is to reach 1.5% of GDP if the situation and everything is favourable. We're not coming here together. We have completely different concepts of thinking in this direction. However, I assure you that all purchases to be made will be made in such a way as to be transparent and not to cause any inconvenience. That is why we have also stopped the purchase of eight-wheelers, and we will especially try, because I very much agree with you in the points that you listed – say, thin T-55, Israeli hoodies, and Patria something else. But here we strongly agree that every purchase has been accompanied by problems. And we'll be especially careful about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr President of the Government, you say that you will ensure that all military procurement takes place in a transparent manner, that you do not want any inconvenience to occur and that it is none of your business. But look, you are now purchasing Oshkosh 4x4 armors whose purchases are not even transparent, from the start they are accompanied by nuisances, if you categorize double price increases in three weeks as a nuisance, which is certainly the case with us in Levica. And right at the beginning of your term of office, we have a non-transparent job to do that would just have to be cancelled. Even because our country's defence is not required at all. In doing so, no reference to Nate's commitments is sufficient. We never promised Nate that we would buy Oshkosh armors. I will reply to Mr Marjan Šarc with Mr Marjan Šarc, his remarks from the interview he gave a good week ago. He says: “We must do much in the area of cybersecurity. Today it is no longer fought with attacks across the border, but in the cyber world.« Please tell me how the armored men will stop the hacker! They won't. As far as NATO is concerned, we also have commitments to our own citizens and citizens. Investing in social security is also a category of security. Hospitals protect us from getting sick. Science protects us from being unruly. And so on. And these are the categories of security that are at the same time the categories of prosperity in which this country should invest as a priority. We don't need armor. But we need development and prosperity.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u38	Thank you. Member of Parliament, don't worry about social welfare, because according to my data we have 20% higher social transfers than Denmark has, say, which is very high in this area. As far as social affairs are concerned, Slovenia is highly ranked and the armoured people will certainly not suffer this. Cybersecurity and everything you've said – I totally agree. Sure. But as I said, the Hummer is exhausted and needs to be replaced. Because we're going to go through individual military stations, and you're going to explain to them that they're going to walk around, and they're going to go to Afghanistan, and they're going to walk where there's a minefield, or they're going to walk, or they're going to bikes. So here's some demagogies. We have decided, as I said, that we will have 7,000 and some soldiers, now we find that maybe this number can be reduced by the norms. This is a matter of another debate, but we've decided to have an army. And if we have this army, we have to equip it. You know, even when I was getting firepower in the congregation, I listened to the saints, yes, why they'd have chutes, because they didn't need it, and so on. I listened to everything. But the ones who said it the most, then came first, help, help, and do it for banal things. I don't know if even one of the animals from the tree was a banal thing. We've had all sorts. If you have enough to go, today is the anniversary of the 1st Brigette, we can go there together, and you can tell the officers and soldiers that they don't need this equipment face-to-face. As far as cybersecurity is concerned, it must certainly be taken into account and we will work on it because we are barefoot in this area, for sure. It's not butter or cannons, but it's butter and cannons, if I may put it that way. But it's our concern that we do this by just pulling it off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, you can climb up to the second floor of a burning apartment with a hummer, but you can't take a walk through Pokluka even less with an oshkosh, because it's not built for this area, but it's designed to serve NATO's imperialist agenda, say, in Afghanistan. It is not that we should protect the Slovenian soldier on a mission in Afghanistan, it is that the Slovenian soldier has nothing to look for there and the first place. Keep him at home and protect the country. What we have learned from Mr President of the Government in his reply is two. Firstly, the purchase of Oshkosh armor will not be cancelled, although it is not transparent at all, it is going through a public debate. In the fights of three weeks, his price doubled, the question of where else she would go. The second thing we've learned is that, yes, the current government intends to present a budget in which expenditure will rise, not for defence, but for the military. Again, not for an army to protect the country, but for an army to service Nate's needs. And we will obviously get a budget that will build a middle battalion group, of course, not to defend the country, but to a) to satisfy the international, probably American weapons and b) to be able to play its role as a subcontracting military force in the third world. After the Americans have destroyed everything in front of them, they'll call their allies to go to the militia deck in occupied areas. We're one of them. On the other hand, Slovenian society has real needs, the need for Slovenian citizens and citizens not to be sick to invest in health care. The need for us not to be lagging behind in development to invest in science. The need to strengthen education, to strengthen infrastructure, not to modernise the NATO Expedition Corps, but apparently not the railways. That is why I would like to ask if you want the response of Mr President of the Government to be discussed in this National Assembly before it is too late before too much money goes into the next arms affair, the budget closes in advance so much that these funds will forever be lost for the well-being and development of this country. Because apparently, after only three months of the current government, Nate's weapons lobby found his channel and his way to the Prime Minister of the Government, who placed the priority of foreign power centres above the well-being of his own citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We'll vote on your request on Wednesday. You have the floor, Mr. Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you very much! President, it's not easy for you, but it is. Dear President, distinguished ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In each government, especially at the time of its creation, when a coalition treaty is formed in some way, it is development, science is the first word, or first priority. Unfortunately, the practice shows that development and all of these developments on this subject, such as development priorities, development breakthroughs, the state of development possibilities, will later become a mass of political expressions talking about the future and about a vision. But when we need to take concrete action, actions, in fact, there is no money or money running out. Then we turn to other excuses that we have a fiscal rule that we have other priorities, that we will not now, that we need more time and the caravan goes on. And in order for all of us to pour one pure wine together, of course we need to have a vision, we need to have a plan, but if you want a vision and a plan to make, you just need some kind of money, because without money, a respected president, you know very well that there is no development. I know, too. That if we throw money into science, I'll say it doesn't pay in some way immediately or the results aren't immediately visible. If we throw money into a patch of various budget holes, the unions applaud, then on the one hand other people applaud, if we throw money somewhere else, and the country kind of steps in place and we simply can't go what Slovenia deserves, which is that Slovenia would be a developing country to make more money for science, to make Slovenia a safe country. In recent times, the media has also written that, President, you have courage and I know you as a brave gentleman. But in the end, we must all take one step together and we must invest money in development. Just this kind of money that we invest in development is kind of, I'll say, the real gas for the country, so that the country can move on with the full steam. That is why, President, I ask you very specifically: How much money and what resources the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intends to invest in the skills of people, their health and knowledge needed to be a globally successful and competitive society. And two: What is your view of dynamics with regard to the proposed objective of increasing the R & D budget by 2022 1%? Maybe these two look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much! You have rightly found that without development, without investing in science, there is no progress. In these years, in the last 10 years or in the last 10 years, it's been a little slow. The research and innovation strategy of Slovenia 2011-2020 was born when the years were still optimistic, it is said before the crisis occurred, which then struck. Surely there is something written there that has not yet been done. We know that there are ten years behind us when it really wasn't invested, not just in science and development, but something else. If I were a demagog, I'd wear a vest like Mr. Jelinčič's, I'd say if we didn't throw 5 billion into banks, we'd all have enough. But we know it's not that simple. We are therefore aware of the need to increase, which is also the objective of the coalition agreement, where we have written down that we will reach 1% by 2022. It's written down. Of course, it must also be followed. Given that we are ahead of the budget, which shows a rather complex picture, it will be necessary to decide where we will also be able to replace where we are missing, and this is certainly research and development, because we are certainly lagging behind European countries in this area. The first step is, as you correctly realized, if you don't give money, there can't be an effect. This will be a matter of coalition coordination when we sit down to come up with such a draft budget or a rebalancing 2019 so that this area too will have to be taken care of. Of course, it's not just money, there's personnel, there's organizational stuff everywhere. None of this is just about money, but it's about spending it wisely and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask for a supplement? Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Absolutely, I'll say, I kind of agree with your answer. The only thing I know is that you've been targeting our side for a long time in politics, but five billion would have done a lot in life, and we're talking about twenty, thirty million for science and development and it's not going to compare with those five billion. Because with these five billion, we'd do a lot of other things, and we wouldn't have any problems. But since I know that you were a successful mayor in a larger congregation than I was, I had a small congregation, we both had the same problems. And I'd like to ask you another question. Development starts in kindergartens. Development also begins in primary schools. The development also starts with people having a nice feeling when they go to neat schools, in neat kindergartens and the mayors we were able to take care of in some way when we saw broken facades, broken schools, that we simply restored these schools with significantly less money than could have been intended in budgets. And maybe I'm just wondering: Will the next budget document provide tender funds to help mayors rebuild schools, kindergartens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u47	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much. If anything, I am pleased that you and your minister have been very coordinated and that the reconciliation of the balance for 2019 is approaching, and the minister has already told me this issue. I certainly agree that money will also have to be spent on school renewal invitations. Last but not least, I was the mayor myself once, otherwise the meals were quite stretched out and we waited a long time, but we got this money, otherwise we had to take our bridge loan before, but we did. So I agree with you. All of this depends on coalition coordination when we sit down and see where the power is to get that money. But you blew up my soul a little bit, because when it comes your way, I'm just a mayor who doesn't have a clue, but when it comes your way, I'm the mayor who's been successful, and I don't know what. Just a little bit for that, no harm in taking it. So, yes, we agree that there is also a beginning of development, and that is where progress begins. In particular, there will be a lot to do in the field of education, as well as things like those in schools that happen to say that there are four, and four, and that is controversial. It is also sometimes difficult for a normal person to understand, we agree. The Minister also solves this, including these matters, so there is a variety of anomalies and a lot of work to be done, I repeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We're done asking questions to the Prime Minister. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Defence Karel Erjavec will answer the question of Primož Siter regarding payments for the co-financing of the construction of the Fire Centre in Postojna. An oral question was already raised at the previous meeting. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I apologize for the fact that the expenditure of some members of the government is on the way. I welcome everyone. Thank you very much for asking the question, too. I agree that the Fire Rescue Centre in the Permanent Republic is urgently needed in particular in view of these new circumstances, which are also due to climate change all the time. We have problems with natural disasters, fires, stomachs and the like. The Ministry of Defence is certainly interested in the construction of a fire rescue centre, but it is true that the Ministry of Defence cannot invest in the construction of such centres under general legislation, unless specifically agreed. As far as Postojna is concerned, you know that there is a special agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the municipality. This agreement also provides that within a few years the Ministry of Defence will assist in co-financing this fire rescue centre. In this agreement, we also state that we will co-finance a certain part of the public infrastructure, and it is also agreed that those properties that the Ministry of Defence does not need are transferred to the municipality of Postojna. Such an agreement was signed. Sadly, however, the municipal council in Postojna revoked this agreement. By the end of this agreement, all the legal bases for the realisation of all that is laid down in this Agreement have also fallen. Therefore, it will not depend on the Ministry of Defence, in particular not on the Minister of Defence, what will be the further fate of this response. If he remains in such a position as to be revoked and no longer in force, then the congregation will have to invest in this fire and rescue centre instead of providing funds for social, non-profit housing, for other purposes. The responsibility for how this centre will be further financed depends in particular on the direction of the congregation and, in particular, on the municipal council. If this agreement is no longer in force if it is not revived, then we have no legal basis to invest in the construction of a fire rescue centre. However, I must say that there is a planned and already agreed meeting with the mayor of Postojna, where we expect answers to these questions, what the municipal council intends to do, what it intends to do as mayor of Postojna Municipality, because without legal grounds it would violate all applicable legislation when it comes to co-financing the construction of a fire escape centre. I'm telling you again. The Department of Defense wants to see the completion of the construction of this fire rescue centre. Given that training Poček is strategically important for the Slovenian Army and also for the further development of the Slovenian Army, we are interested in reviving this agreement. If this does not happen, the Ministry of Defence, together with the Slovenian Army, will be forced to start studying other possible solutions. However, the Slovenian army cannot be on its territory without exercise because we need it for the work of the Slovenian army. So it all depends on how the congregation’s leadership will be discussed and what the congregation council of Postojna will do.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u51	First of all, I propose that we hold a debate on the question of the Member State or the request to supplement the question of the Member State. Mr. Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much, and a very nice greeting from me, too, to the Minister. If I understand correctly, the congregation is the Permanent One to block this agreement and prosperity in the congregation, but only on the basis that the municipality itself has expressed its dissatisfaction with the fact that military aircraft are flying over their heads, that Poček is used day and night, that the movement is limited and so on. If I understand correctly, the fire rescue center has been built. MOR promised funding, as you said, I quote: “In particular agreed. MOR has already money to make the financing.” It is said that there is no problem in money, the problem of financing is that the Municipality of Postojna has deviated from the agreement with the MORS, not so much the problem in that they have actually resigned, but from the further step that MORS has chosen, and this is blackmailing the congregation in simple mathematics because it wants these military activities to cease. On the one hand, we have the interest of people, the interest of civil society, the interest behind the rescue centre in this threatened area, especially in the summer, on the other hand, we have partial military interests. Once again, a very simple answer I would like from you: Will you make sure that the MOR co-financing is completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u53	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much for this supplementary question. I have to do it again. The Municipality of Postojna unilaterally withdrew from this agreement. In this agreement, the Ministry of Defence was to co-finance this fire rescue centre. The State's defence counsel is also in the position that the Ministry of Defence, given that this agreement is no longer in force and has no legal effect, has no legal basis to continue co-financing or to complete funding for this fire rescue centre. I believe that this agreement was signed in particular because of the positive effects on both sides, i.e. the municipality, which would thus have assistance in co-financing this fire and rescue centre, as regards certain updates of public infrastructure. I said that in this agreement it should also be that those properties which the Ministry of Defence does not need are transferred to the municipality of Postojna. However, all of this is possible if this agreement is legally in force. This agreement, however, is concluded as we are also aware at the Ministry of Defence that Poček Training School is certainly causing certain disturbances, certain inconveniences, and therefore this agreement has been concluded that somehow these inconveniences are being reduced in such a way that the Municipality of Postojna has some other public benefit on this account. As it is said, once again, let me be very clear that without this agreement we cannot continue to finance this fire rescue centre, which we are assessing is urgently needed. This is not only in the Municipality of Postojna, but some of these fire and rescue centres throughout Slovenia should be rebuilt and built, given that we know that natural and other disasters pose a serious threat to our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u55	The Member shall have a request to discuss the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you very much. That sounds really nice in the field. But in the field that means – if there is no army, there is no center. Postojnč and Postojnčanka and the inhabitants of the surrounding municipalities are tired of these military activities, overflying of planes, restrictions on movement. They are fed up with the threat of drinking water in the grip of Malna. You yourself have mentioned that since 2012 the MORN has not paid compensation for the use of the building land and that up to 1.3 million has so far been raised. The fire rescue centre was built with the aim of effective rescue. This is an investment that is significantly more important than some camping activities in Latvia or from some military exercises, and I do not know what other integration, which, hand to heart, has nothing to do with the defence and security of Slovenia, which is not at any risk at this point. Health is threatened, nature is threatened, the environment in Postojna and the surrounding municipalities in Kras is threatened more than anywhere else. Therefore, honourable Presidents, I propose to the National Assembly that we hold a broader debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Blackach, if you please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you very much. It is right for the public to correct two incorrect information. I don't know who's writing the answers to the minister – he was talking about MORS being interested in building a fire rescue centre. This one's built. The opening took place two months before the elections. And the other inaccuracies that creeped in on Mr Siter, the municipality adopted a decree on compensation for the use of building land in 2011. And it's not true that it wasn't paid for by NUSZ. This, however, should be answered by the Minister, so I suggest that he replace the workers who write him the answers. This compensation was paid at the rate of half a million euros in 2013. After that, not anymore. The municipality complained, and a recent Supreme Court decision speaks of this compensation being hers so that she will get it back. I was obliged to give procedural warning because the public is listening to us, and it is not right that it is aware of incorrect or incorrect information.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec, should answer the questions of Suzanne Lepi Šimenko regarding incentives for small farms and France Breznik regarding the regulation of the situation of tourist farms. But she's gone today. Oral answers will be given at the next meeting. Minister of Environment and Space Jura Leben will answer Boris Doblekar's question regarding the problem of degraded areas in Slovenia. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, we have unfortunately not yet established a register of degraded areas in Slovenia in 27 years. At the ILO, we have taken steps to resolve matters and have first prepared a methodology for the inventory of degraded areas and the source for the preparation of the register itself. Little to feel – when preparing the register we will take into account the factors and stakeholders among which we own land, what you are also asking, who is causing pollution, the type of scales, the status of the area, the regimes in the areas – whether Natura 2000 is a water protection area and so on, any already reported environmental impacts, water, air, soil and any criminal offences. My commitment is that in 2019 we will prepare a register of potentially polluted areas where we will pool the many data we already have in Slovenia, environmentalists without borders, mushrooms, fishermen, lobster societies, nature. It seems to me that such an approach is most important because we are bringing together all stakeholders working on the ground and we can get the data very quickly and then we enter them into the register. However, I warn you that the next step is most important for everyone, how we will come to the rescue of this. Here I would like to say that, after the notification of potentially contaminated areas, it is imperative to adopt a new law on environmental protection that will give us some legal basis for the recovery and financing process. In this marriage we will have to work together, thoughtfully and without sharing on ours and yours, because too many things depend on this law. This means that when we talk about rehabilitation, the polluter pays, it is essential that we complete and adopt the law on environmental protection. Currently degraded areas are defined in Article 24 of the Environmental Protection Act. In accordance with these provisions, we already have a specific area of Upper Mežiške dolina, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decree and programme to improve the quality of the environment in the upper Mežiški valley in 2007. From 2007 until the end of 2018, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia spent €9 million and €3.9 million by the end of 2022. Another such example of the rehabilitation of the degraded area, where we also have very serious control by the European Commission, is the landfill of Bukovžlak. We know that 6 and a half hectares of illegal waste is mostly construction waste. All the necessary research was carried out and completed in 2018. Land negotiations are now under way because they are mostly privately owned. In this regard, we have already forwarded a specific timetable to the European Commission, and between 2014 and 2018, we have allocated the Circus EUR 400,000 for rehabilitation. In agreement with the Commission, the aim is to end the rehabilitation for this area in 2021. There is currently a procedure for the rehabilitation of kindergartens in the city municipality. The public hearing, I am pleased to say, was concluded on 10 December this year. I am talking about a regulation on the criteria for determining the level of burden, a decree on the determination of playgrounds and an order on the decommissioning of playgrounds in the Municipality of Celje. The Ministry of Environment and Space will provide €1 million for the rehabilitation of ten kindergartens in 2019 and 2020. The latest example from your question, however, is the landfill of Rakovnik. According to official data, 56 000 tonnes of industrial waste have been dumped at Rakovnik landfill, mainly from Vrhnika leather industry and partly municipal waste. In 2018 an ideal design for the rehabilitation of the landfill Rakovnik was developed. The study evaluated two solutions, one EUR 10 million for the management of the closed landfill and another 30 years for the monitoring itself. The second is not EUR 65 million for the export of the whole material. Here I can say that we will review both assessments because we do not want to make any profits on the companies themselves, and I expect that in 2019 we can start and end it in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. I'm glad you're aware of the seriousness of this problem of degraded areas. In my opinion, such areas are too many in Slovenia, if that is just one. I believe that these are also all waste dumps, including so-called waste disposal centres in Slovenia or will become later. I also believe that we are not aware of all of us together in the country of the harmful effects on the environment and health of humans and animals over the years, decades when this is happening. The last very worrying and outstanding case is the Regional Sulphur dump in Hrastnik, where almost everything is wrong, and we can be very concerned. If this sample example is a bad practice that will begin to appear in other such landfills, then we can all be very concerned. Due to all this and also to the dangerous waste dump in Rakovnik in the municipality of Šmartno pri Litija, it is the last time that we start to think about incinerators or a larger incinerator in Slovenia and the systematic regulation of all these regional centres, which the Minister is also very aware of after all the last discussions. I know that you, as Minister, have a very similar view of this issue, but at this point I would still ask you: When can we expect the first real big incinerator in Slovenia? I also ask: When can people at the Rakovnik landfill really expect serious action? At the same time, I invite you to take a look at this disputed landfill, because I know you like to go look at such problems. And I'm asking you: When will the inhabitants of Šmartna be able to rejoice that theirs will finally be removed, one of the greatest of them? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thanks for the extra questions. As far as systematic waste management is concerned, we have already had many discussions and discussions. I'm aware that you'd like to hear from me some anniversary by the time we have the incinerator, and then she won't, and I'll get a question about why we don't have it. I think the biggest problem with the thermal treatment of waste in Slovenia is the social sensitivity of such a facility, regardless of the fact that we already have one in Celje. What we agreed on last summer will go into the first amendment of the Environmental Protection Act, the area of waste and two to three of the most acute, and then we will make another version of the Environmental Protection Act, where we will edit the remaining contents. What I can tell you about Cancer is that we will be able to start recovery in 2019. If everything goes as planned, we have a public invitation to tender, and we know it can stall. We have a performance, we know that in some cases it can stall. If things go according to plan, it's two years' time, but things can get carried away. The register of degraded areas is on my priority list, too, in my office, so we'll do everything we can to follow what I've moved today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Member, would you like to make a request for a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much for further clarifications. I also asked him if he would come and look at our landfill, because it would be very interesting if the minister himself could see it live. I've seen it a few times before, and what a man sees there can actually make you very, very concerned. All these leaks of dangerous, stinking liquids, dangerous metals, acids that drain out of this pile of hundreds of thousands of cubics, or 65 thousand tons of waste, when it leaks into nature, into that reservoir, when it drives away, and yet it's too crowded and running all the way down into the grass, into the river Rakovnik, into pastures, where there is also a pasture for cattle or dairy cows from the nearby agricultural cooperative. In short, I must say that I am very pleased that the Minister has felt that something has to be done here, and that some necessary measures have already been taken to continue to address this pressing problem. I am also pleased that the two possibilities that one actual recovery would satisfy the needs of people, nature, the environment in this degraded area have been met. The second option is to take it all together to the right place, to destruction or whatever. I believe that this second option will be when you get the right estimate of the costs for the implementation of this second measure, which I think would be much more appropriate to be in this place where there was once a beautiful forest and where it did not smell, where these toxic substances were not poured out or cured into the river Rakovnik, in the river River, in the river Sava and then into the sea, to actually take it all together. Once again, I invite the minister to come and see it. I propose, however, that we hold a broader debate in the National Assembly at the next meeting on this issue, the degraded areas. We know that this is quite a bit in Slovenia, and the Minister is aware of this, which is very encouraging. Nevertheless, it seems to me that if we want to get more money, more resources to eliminate these degraded areas, that we will all have to put our heads together, and actually with some strategy, we will be able to have our beautiful, green, pure Slovenia again, without any similar cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. First, she will ask the question of the Member of Parliament, Anja Bah Žibert, Minister of Health, Sam Fakin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ministers! The question is, however, only to the Minister of Health. In fact, any door we open in the area of health is something wrong. The fact is, people lose hope and say our health is dying. If he's not dying, we can at least say he's very sick and it's only a matter of time before it actually collapses. On the one hand, we have inadmissible waiting types, on the other hand, doctors and other health workers who burn out and do not even know how to end the day. Also because there are large differences between which programmes are taken into account by the Health Insurance Office, which one is not. In short, there are many confusions in large areas. The worst of all is that our health care has not been free for a long time. People literally put those last cents of pensions aside because they know that if anything really happens to them, they'll have to pay. And the worst part is that it's not free anymore for our children. That's why I'm gonna stop here at an orthodontist for children and adolescents. You know exactly that here all children do not already receive so-called treatment within the Health Insurance Office, because there are certain points and the difference is that some children come to this, others don't. But what's worse? We have 15,000 children in Slovenia waiting in the waiting line. The orthodontists say that these waiting types can also cause such irregularities, which are then very difficult to eliminate or even impossible. Specifically. For a normal guide, children wait up to 9 years for a travel agent fast six years. So in this first part, Minister, I seriously ask you: What are you going to do in this area to make things better and not have the waiting lines we have? Since I have a few seconds to speak to experts and health professionals abroad, what kind of waiting lines we have in Slovenia in this area, it was said that you were wrong. And they checked my data three times. So please tell me what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much! I wouldn't have had such an estimate that the health system was before the collapse. In 2008, we had 2 billion 400 in the budget, in 2019 we will have 3 billion, 3 billion and a half, so the funds are still growing. They also increase salaries for employees as a result of these or those negotiations and also increase accessibility to health services. In the last two years we have paid quite a lot of programs for the so-called open end, this means that we pay all the services that are done – CT, magnet, ultrasound, X-ray and I hope that in 2019 we will not talk about these waiting periods as problematic. And you could count it. Let me mention that in the last ten years there have been 4 thousand more employees in Slovenian health care, and this reduces the pressure on those who were previously employed, by not raising the number of checks and the number of hospitalised patients significantly or with the dynamics that would require more people. As for orthodontism, you're right. The waiting days here are extremely long, almost the longest. It is true that Slovenia has very liberal access to orthodontic treatment. With very small dental errors, we already have an orthodontist, and this increases the pressure on orthodontists, which we have about the same number as other countries, perhaps even those you mentioned. We have 90% accessibility, and in Croatia, Sweden, Denmark and England, where they have comparable orthodontists, they have the right to receive this kind of treatment somewhere between 40% and 60% of children. In 2018, as we are aware of this problem, the Ministry of Health was already allowed to exceed the programme by 20%. This is said in 80 orthodontists to be about 16 more productive teams. What do you do? To further specialize in orthodontists. If we maintain such a high right. At the time when we will talk about the Health and Health Insurance Act, this combination will be the size of a basket of rights and the amount of money needed in the first place or in the first place.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The Member shall have a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Look, if 250,000 people are waiting in waiting lines, you're not gonna say it's a good thing or it's not a collapse. It's for me, because no one should wait in line. Speaking of orthodontists, here's the thing. I agree that we have a fairly well-regulated approach to treatment options within the meaning of these criteria and that some countries are lower here. But I don't know why we should follow those who have lower standards. I think that where there are absolute standards, and given that children then experience other forms, not only discrimination, but self-images, if they are not regulated in this area, I think they would be saving here on the wrong side. But look, Minister, you're saying we're going to make more specialists. There are a lot of specialists waiting for concessions and they don't get them. There was a case in Ljubljana that one concessionaire stopped working and again there was a collapse in this area – 800 children were left without an orthodontist, they did not know where to go, you know that the limits are 16 years old, that the limits are then 18 years and this limit comes quickly. And second of all. On the other hand, the Department of Health Insurance reimburses costs if someone goes abroad for treatment and goes there to a private person. Here we don't even give concessions and the possibility of someone helping public health, while abroad we pay privates. Here things are wrong and upside down, and this also applies to other areas. Since you couldn't explain some things to me when, how, at least tell me: What about the strategy in this area, because experts warn that it is not or would need it more?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u74	The Ministry has contacted the Medical Chamber and the professional at the Slovenian orthodontic Society we will only find appropriate solutions, if I shorten, we need this moment more orthodontists and we will therefore go to the call for appropriate programmes. However, as far as privacy and concessions are concerned, certain things need to be regulated. You mentioned an orthodontist who, I think, was 80 years old when she retired. Now we're having trouble regulating orthodontism, and luckily it was taken over by the dentist's clinic. Well, it's called planning a public network and planning, by when will someone work in a public network and when will we say thank you very much and hire a new one. This is not yet settled because, in its time, the legislation for concessions was quite liberal, by not providing for a fixed network, and even now there are aspirations for concessions to be abolished. This means that a certain part of the private can have a d.o.o. and when it is terminated, it is terminated. You know, for example, that the replacement with a new or specialization of a new life is a child’s heart surgery, where the matter was not carefully managed and the program collapsed.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Madam Members, do you have a motion for a procedural motion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Now I can partly agree with you, but to a large extent not. As I said, some are waiting in line for the concession, the problem is whether they are allowed to pay the programme further or not. And they must have things covered, too. And I wouldn't say here that the problem is concessionaires, the problem is our system. I also said that we pay abroad to private people, but in Slovenia we do not pay basic treatment. So it's paid to a clean privateer, and we don't even give this place the opportunity to make concessionaires. As it is said, 15,000 children are in waiting lines and many of them won't turn out to be, because age is limited, as I said, for the first 16 years, as for the second 18 years. Parents have to deduct €3,000 500 for machines. Now tell me how many parents can raise that kind of money together, or their children will be convicted of being the object when they are older, ridicule, other psychological problems, because you know what a healthy tooth means today. So I really suggest that we hold a public debate on this subject, not to criticize anyone, but mainly in the spirit of finding concrete solutions together. I think that some things in Slovenia last too long and after it explodes somewhere at some end, as the case of Ljubljana was here, but you need to know that in other municipalities it is even worse, as it was said, for some 9 years, so you should report the child to orthodontist when he is born, in order for him to come in normally, then something is very wrong. And it would be very important here that we start talking in some way, and in some public debate, we also arrange this. Because the first examination must be done by the age of 16. If this is not the case, treatment may no longer be available and treatment should be completed by the age of 18. We have a system like this, and you know that first it has to grow a tooth and everything else to see if anyone needs orthodontic treatment. I hope that Members and Members will listen to this and that we will have a broader debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Jožef Horvat will ask an oral question to Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister of Finance Andrej Bertonselj, as Minister of Finance, you are one of the key economic policy players in Slovenia. Your long-standing rich experience in the field of economy still increases your responsibility to prepare Slovenia for its resistance to a possible new recession or economic crisis. Mr Minister, we both know that Slovenia, compared to the most developed countries under the OECD, is an overly taxed country, given the share of taxes in GDP. We both probably know that taxes stifle development. If there is no development, we stagnate or retreat. Budget revenues have increased over the last period, allowing for a long time to relieve all taxpayers. On the other hand, it cannot be observed by the Government that it would be preparing an update of the tax system by decommissioning various taxes. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What are your guidelines for modernising tax systems? Are you planning to reduce tax burdens and relieve taxpayers or simply bear tax burdens between different taxpayers? For example, taxpayers in France have made it very clear to their President, Emmanuel Macron, how they accept new and new family budgets. You think it makes sense, Mr Minister, that, given that about €1 billion has been generated in the last year on the income side due to economic growth and that in some way we would participate in these larger revenues, of course, the state, say, one third, this is now a matter of discussion, then workers, certainly workers and, of course, employers. When I talk about the economy, I always think about the socio-market model of the economy, and when I talk about the economy, I always think about employers and workers. It's a logical whole, one without the other. Slovenian taxes are not rational, so after a decade – a decade actually waiting – the system needs to be re-established. This is an extremely difficult task, I'm sure I agree. Slovenia must introduce a rational tax system that would be substantially more corrective and also effective in the long term, and everyone would have some of it. The fact is that work needs to be unloaded because work in Slovenia is too burdensome. There is the impression that it is forbidden to work in Slovenia. I ask for your answers and your comment, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u80	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. Tax policy is one of the key policies under each country's economic policy. And as such, one of these policies, which we can still manage independently in the Republic of Slovenia, as you know, with monetary policy is no longer so. Today we are in a period of economic, social and economic optimism. And part of this, in the form of social transfers and other arrangements that we have already set up and which we are obviously planning in the rebalancing of 2019, is also for the benefit of citizens. It is precisely during the period of convergence, economic growth – this year is foreseen at 4.4% and the following year at 3.7%, as we have already discussed on the Committee on Finance, that part of this should be put aside for the worse. The economic cycle is actually calming down. A certain part of these counter-measures should already be planned. Of course, I am pleased that we have managed to balance this in the plans we have for the rebalancing of 2019. So, from these taxes, contributions as you rightly indicated, yes, 2018 was a good year, I expect 2019 will also be a good year, probably not as good as 2018, but still continue in this work. The tax system and the distribution system as we have it is, as you yourself said, a system based on a socio-economic model. In Slovenia we have public education, public health and other institutions, which are, of course, financed by these taxes and taxes collected. And that's right. So we have collected significantly more in 2018, we will pick up significantly more in 2019, but of course we will also return this to our citizens and citizens in 2018 and 2019. If you allow, some numbers based on the review of the structure of individual taxes as a percentage of the gross domestic product. The figures as a percentage of gross domestic product relate to 2016, the types of taxes. Taxes and contributions together, Slovenia 36.6%, EU 38.9%, so Slovenia's ranking is 14, we're somewhere in the middle of gold, we'd still have a 2% chance of getting into the cash register in this part. We stand out in social security contributions – 14.5% of GDP, Europe 12.1%, our ranking 6th place among 28 countries. Value added tax – 8.2%, EU 28.7%, our city 11. Income – 5.2%, GDP Europe 9.3%, we are on the tail. Worse still, the corporate income tax – 1.6%, Europe 2.6%, we are the last, 28. Environmental taxes – 3.9%, EU 28, 2.4%, 2. The place. Taxes on assets – 0.6% against 2.6% in the EU 28, i.e. rank 23. What do I mean by that? What you said, and what many studies, domestic and foreign, have already indicated, in this part we have work too burdened and capital too underburdened. In this part, I would avoid the word reform; I would rather say what I am actually saying than hearing further, about some comprehensive tax optimisation. In this work, of course, the Ministry of Finance will take action. As an economic operator, of course, I am aware of the bearing roles of the economy and in this part of the exporters and their essential contribution to the growth of gross domestic product. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Horvat has a request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for sharing quite a few of my claims with me. One thing I have to say, however, is that I regret that the Government has not listened more thoroughly to the New Slovenia measures that we have already proposed in this mandate, as you remember, at the November meeting. The key thing that motivated me to open up a discussion with you about optimisation, as you say, of the tax system, is that I am sure that one crucial year is coming. In 2019, according to our assessment, the crucial year in which Slovenia should strongly encourage, even through tax receipts, the reinvestment of profits in technological and human resources in order to achieve significantly higher added value. What's our problem? We have a very low productivity problem. We are about 20% below European averages in terms of productivity, for example, Germany is 20% above the European average. It is this low productivity that certainly cannot provide higher wages. New Slovenia is the one who fights not only for higher minimum wages, to raise the wages of all. If there is no payload, there will be high quality staff, I am sure they will continue to leave Slovenia, and the government will continue to treat employees in companies as second-class workers. Such is the impression, I hope you will continue this impression, you have a chance to fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u84	Yes, in this part I share your opinion, and I think we all share it in this room. We have to take care of our work from here on out. Now, the first steps are going in this direction. We're thinking about unloading the so-called 13th salary, that's regression. But on the other hand, you have to understand us, I think it's the 101st day since we performed, and as you yourself have already said, and I agree with that, certain things, arrangements in this area have been going on for a really long time. One of these measures, which will ensure the stability of the financing of at least one of these cash registers, such as the municipal treasury, is also the Real Estate Tax Act. I think it's been going on for 10 years. We have approached this measure immediately. This is sort of a joint project led by a colleague from the Ministry of Environment and Space. We started immediately after the creation of the expert commission. The work in these professional councils is running, the registers are being updated, and here I see a key reservation and it will go on. Of course, another is all the measures we're predicting, and what we've said, which we're going to do with all the force, I would say, after the adoption of the budget of the rebalancing. This is really the first priority right now. Professional analysis, that's what's going on at the Ministry. But it is primarily in the work of finding the right balance. Look, in Slovenia we're dealing with social dialogue on all these things, and I think it's the same. And we made it clear about Slovenia that as well as anyone else, the Minister of Economy and others, we need a stable and predictable environment. And from the economists, I've heard mainly a suggestion, whatever you're going to do, do the prudent thing and tell us in advance. And that's what I promised them. We will work towards a stable and predictable environment. The economy doesn't want surprises, quick action. That's why we said that these measures, which of course will work in full, will work at this time. As far as the tax environment is concerned, however, we are one of the most favourable business environments in this part. The rate of taxation of legal persons is 19% and the effective rate is 13%. After the pardon, I will say, even these development components, and this large company is actually paying a zero rate. And in this part it is also possible that these profits are reinvested, and in this part companies have a favourable tax environment. Therefore, I would not intervene in these areas, but I would balance both, as I said, measures in the area of wage relief, as well as on some additional capital burdens, but all in some balanced, reasonable scale. I think it's some balance we need.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. You have a request for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Rules of Procedure allow me to propose to the National Assembly to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's answer or the question we have here. I think it's very important. Colleagues and colleagues, our future, the future of our children is too important, is too important to simply leave to chance. All together and individually, we are responsible for the better tomorrow, for the present generation and for the future of our children and children. That is why I think this debate about some future tax system is extremely important. I believe it can't just happen in 100 days. That's not what I expected. But given that we are expecting, because I have argued and insist that next year will be a kind of a turning year, it would be good to really start the debate right away at the next meeting of the National Assembly. I'm sure Minister Bertonselj is agreeing with me that we need some kind of third-large national consensus, a social agreement, what this Slovenia should be like in the future, what this modern Slovenia should be like. We need a third consensus. If the first consensus was Slovenia's independence and if the second entry of Slovenia was the European Union and NATO. I also believe that Mr Minister agrees with me that the best social policy is the policy that enables and stimulates the creation of new jobs, not any kind of job, but those with minimum wage we are not interested in. We need to increase productivity, we are talking about those jobs that also provide a good salary, that in some narrow band of the European average. I miss that kind of debate. I will also propose, colleagues and colleagues, because the practice is such that our discussions are more constructive if we close the session, so if there are no cameras. I believe that we would have reached some at least some starting points for some new tax or general economic policy of Slovenia. We need to create such a business environment, so that Slovenia will actually be attractive to investors, ahead of home and also foreign investors. Here I would also point out that the budget on the revenue side will always be too small, so it is also necessary to establish such a policy that will know and that will stimulate greater involvement of private resources both in health, education and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u87	Havela beautiful. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Natasa Sukić will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Lebna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Minister! Over the past month, and in particular in the past week, we were able to monitor quite dramatic money regarding the issue of an environmental permit for natural gas pumping through hydraulic stimulation or so-called fracturing in Petišovci. You have established internal control over the work of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the issue of two permits for the implementation of fracking. As a result, you have been given the courage, threats and blackmail on social networks by so-called investors. In internal control, however, you have identified unacceptable and unacceptable pressures on agency employees. Both procedures violated the principles of both autonomy and independence of the Authority and the work of officials. For reasons of irregularities, the Director of the Environment Agency has also resigned. The monitoring report shall be marked with an “internal” level of secrecy. You said you put a degree of secrecy on the report to protect your employees, and I was wondering: Why are you protecting them or protecting them? Are you protecting them from the public line, because of their behaviour, or are you protecting them because of further pressure from the Ascent Resources Corporation that you want to do the fracting? The second question is: What will happen to the environmental permit itself? Despite undue and unacceptable pressure on employees, the process of issuing environmental permits continues. How can you identify all that you have found that because of irregularities, the director of the governing body himself has flown away, and those who have carried out all these pressures have not actually done anything and are still a party to the process and may eventually even get this environmental permit to pump fossil fuels with the most dirty possible technology. So I'm wondering: Will this environmental permit be issued? Will you make use of the findings of internal control to stop the issue of an environmental protection permit? Do you think it would be a good thing to crack like that? This is an environmentally-disputed natural gas extraction technology that should be left as a fossil energy by climate change where it is in the country. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you for the question, Member Sukich. It is true, as you mentioned, that at the end of October I ordered internal control of both procedures led by the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in the Petišovci case. With internal control, I wanted to make sure that all procedures were conducted professionally, impartially and legally. Above all, I wanted to make sure that there was no undue pressure on our employees. As Minister, I am responsible for both procedures and for the safety and integrity of my employees. My concerns were, unfortunately, justified. Internal control over both procedures has shown that there have been inappropriate pressures among employees of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is an independent body in the composition of the Ministry of Environment and Space. It turns out that lobbies who have apparently followed the logic of capital, while forgetting to protect our environment, our legislation, with various pressures and deceptions, have tried to influence the independent process of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Among other things, the Commission found that the procedures violated the principles of autonomy and independence of the Authority and the work of the officials. The Commission has highlighted the fact that pressure on Slovenian officials is not unacceptable and indisputable and is willing to repeat them. In the final conclusion, the Commission proposes an analysis of the appropriateness of the current arrangements with regard to the consideration of best available technology or of the best appropriate conclusion technology for the issue of an environmental authorisation, the expertise or competence of persons producing documentation for plant managers and the environmental authorisation procedure and, on this basis, the ILO shall adopt appropriate substantive measures. The findings of the Commission shall be forwarded to the competent authorities, including any pressure that has been exerted during the course of internal control to the management of the Ministry of Environment and Space or to the staff, has been notified to the competent authorities. Let me be clear, I will also take care, as Minister, of the more efficient procedures that anger the economy. We've already speeded things up with some internal instructions. While it is unacceptable that some companies have been waiting for permits and approvals for years. Even congregations after many years. But threats and illegal pressures belong to the dump of history, and unfortunately there is no compromise here. With regard to both concrete procedures, we both know that I cannot comment on them because they are both taking place at the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. ARSO is a body within the ILO, but as a minister, I do not have and must not affect the content of the decision alone. If I were to comment, it would be no better than those who exert inappropriate pressure. We must allow an independent agency to complete its work. However, if the law enforcement authorities find out with some conclusions that there have been other irregularities, then as Minister of the Environment, I may interfere with the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. You have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u92	Yes, thank you, Minister. I'd just like to complete my question. We all know how corporations like Ascent Resources approach the acquisition of permits in the so-called banana republics — with a root and a stick. So on the one hand there are threats and blackmails that we have witnessed, on the other hand there are often bribes. You've discovered the first one, maybe there are others you haven't even discovered yet. You said that in this case you must also protect the sovereignty of Slovenia. What message does our country give in order to identify irregularities in the procedures, that the Director of the Authority, who is in charge of these proceedings, is actually threatening us, threatening us publicly, threatening you as a minister, and actually continuing the process? And that's something to ask. Next thing. At ARSO, it was found that the Ascent Resources do not have a mining project in view of Geoenerg. They refer to the decisions of the 50th century when Yugoslavia authorised gas pumping in Petišovci. Gas pumping, not cracking. In addition, the 1953 Decisions do not exist either at the Ministry of Infrastructure or at the Geological Survey. The Mining Act, however, requires the development of a mining project for research, the acquisition of a concession for implementation and rehabilitation. Furthermore, the ARSO ordered the British to repair existing wells in 2011, but apparently it was not. Only internal technical review should be carried out. How, then, is all of this not enough for you to actually forever preach to them that they are doing anything else? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thanks for the extra question. I didn't mention it was a bribe. This must be determined by the law enforcement authorities. It is precisely because we need to ensure independent procedures and the sovereignty of Slovenia that such pressures, at least as I know it, have begun to occur since May this year. As soon as I got this information on the table, I reacted. That means, I can comment on things from September on. Again, we've handed everything over to the law enforcement agencies that will look into things. Nobody's saying it's the Ascent Resources. The law enforcement authorities are the ones who can look into it and finally confirm it. I have to provide a smooth environment for the work of my employees in the Ministry itself and for the implementation of my content. I'm aware of the additional information you gave me. I am convinced that colleagues at the Environment Agency have all the knowledge that they will be able to determine whether or not there is something missing in the process. Just because the proceedings are ongoing, it would be very unfair for me to comment only on the content or express my views. But I can tell you for sure when we go to change the Environmental Protection Act, there will be priority human health, environmental health and then everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following will raise the oral question of Lidija Ivanuš, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u96	Well, hello, all of you! In 2018, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food issued a public invitation to tender for Sub-measure 6.1, in order to help start activities for young farmers for 2018. This call for money is available at a total of EUR 15 million. This area is governed by the Implementing Regulation, which provides in Article 11, that the amount of support shall be EUR 45 000 per beneficiary for young farmers under the rural development programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2020. In order to qualify as beneficiary of that amount, it must fulfil a number of different conditions, such as that it must become the owner of an agricultural holding with an intergenerational transfer or purchase of an agricultural holding; if it has less than 6 hectares of comparable agricultural area, it must have at least 15 heads of large livestock and a maximum of 160 animals of the same kind for breeding or at least 60 bee families and a maximum of 200 bee families; it must submit a business plan for a period of 3 years and so on. At that time, he must also pay social security contributions. The Annex to that Regulation lists the milestones and targets for which funds must be used for what purpose. The amount of the remittance received by the young farmer on the TRR amounts to EUR 45 000, the amount of the funds to be spent on the eligible transfer of EUR 45 000 is EUR 55 000, as this amount also includes VAT, which is not subsidised by the State. My question. In view of the actual situation entered, I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food: Why does the state take people by the nose when it first promises money and makes them feel bad about it, because a non-taxable farmer has to pay EUR 45 000 for his 10,000 to meet the set targets?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Just a question of whether you want an oral answer at your next meeting or whether you will be satisfied with a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u98	We can do it orally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u99	Okay, you'll get an oral response at the next session. The following will ask the Minister of the Environment and Space of Juret Lebnu the question of mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u100	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! The fact is that the regulation of housing conditions is one of the basic human needs, which, as such, also has a place in the General Declaration of Human Rights, where housing is defined as a fundamental human right. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous country, we had a very well-groomed housing fund. That is, anyone who needed an apartment got one. Unfortunately, this was no longer the case after the independence and establishment of the independent Slovenia. In addition to the Yazbinska Law, which was adopted in the early 1990s and thus sold out the entire housing fund to current tenants, and in addition to the Act on the Denationalisation of Important Things Was Not Done, of course, except that the entire housing fund was sold out and that the previous social housing fund, which today should have been the housing fund of fixed rentals, was simply sold out and was left behind more than the market. In Slovenia we do have the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which, unfortunately, has worked more than any real estate agency so far. Therefore, I am pleased, Mr Minister, that the coalition agreement of the current current government states that more attention will be paid to the field of non-profit rentals than it has been to date. To be more specific, among other things, the Coalition Treaty states that particular concern will be given to the provision of non-profit rents for young people and that housing policy funds will rise to 0.4% of GDP. So far, these funds have been much lower, 0.04%, which is much below the average in the European Union. I want to know: Have you already taken action at the Ministry? What is the specific timetable for the preparation of these measures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your question, Member Koprivc. I am well aware of the challenge of housing problems in Slovenia, so I have already spent quite a bit of content on this subject in my hearing. As you have already established, our coalition has committed itself in the coalition treaty to be more bold to write together a new housing policy. I've also started communicating with stakeholders in the past few months. At the Ministry, we have taken a serious bite into this sour apple and are working fast on the realisation of the promises of the coalition treaty itself. Preparations are currently under way at the Ministry of Environment and Space for a new housing law, a youth scheme, a project for older people, a pilot project for extended families and individuals, a project for the introduction of a public rental service and a project for housing cooperatives. In the coalition contract, as you can see, under which the role of the Housing Fund is more active, I must say that I absolutely agree. The strategy of the Ministry is to make the Housing Fund the main actor in housing policy and to focus exclusively on the provision of public rentals. The Housing Fund has already started projects to build rental apartments and will provide about a thousand 300 apartments by 2020. The Novo Brdo neighbourhood with approximately 500 apartments is being built in Ljubljana, a neighbourhood in Kranj and a neighbourhood in Maribor will be built. The priority groups for renting these apartments will be young and young families, as set out in the Coalition Treaty. The fund of these apartments will also be able to be leased in the beginning and bought out in the long term. I also explain that the Government has already approved the possibility of borrowing the Housing Fund for EUR 50 million from the Council of Europe Development Bank. In addition, the Housing Fund is already preparing a pilot project for the residential community for young Gerbičeva, where 109 apartments are foreseen and are expected to be habitable in 2020. Housing will be provided under favourable conditions for young people. The Housing Fund will thus reach the number 2 000 500 rental apartments by 2020. Young and young families will have priority in renting, as our primary goal is to find a home for young people in Slovenia. We are also preparing a new housing law at the Ministry, which has been written a lot over the past few weeks. We have rejected the draft of the previous government because I would like to write our new housing policy together for the first time, together with the local community, experts and other stakeholders. As was the case with the emergency intervention law, where cooperation with stakeholders was excellent. I now invite everyone to participate actively in the preparation of the housing law itself. My goal is not a law that anyone would own, but a law whose realization will be in the interest of all of us. Only in this way will we be able to manage the housing situation, especially for young and young families. I expect that the law will be adopted next year and will address the three biggest currently registered problems. The first problem is the lack of motivation for the country and the municipality to develop a public housing fund because no cost rent is provided to enable the maintenance and development of the fund. Secondly, due to lack of transparency, many apartments occupy those that do not belong to them. At the same time, the current system represents hidden social transfers. And thirdly, give the right back to the high-level owners. These problems solve the combination of rent and apartment allowance. This will allow for an adequate payment for the integration and development of the public housing fund. At the same time, it would allow a transparent and fair system of social transfers, in this area the participation of all stakeholders and also give back the right to the owner. If I finish, we are rapidly working at the Ministry on the implementation of the content of the coalition contract and much will be done in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Šircelj will raise an oral question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrei Bertonclj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Three, four years ago, Slovenia amended the Constitution by writing in the Constitution a so-called fiscal rule, or a golden fiscal rule, on the basis of which it applies in public finances, so that the expenditure should not exceed the income, if I say so, in all public treasury offices, that is to say for the state budget, municipal budgets, medical bills, pension bills and so on. Under this provision of the Constitution, which is a guardian of the number of public finances, a law was later adopted which operated on this fiscal rule. That is why, before each financial year, before each year, when public finances are actually presented in the National Assembly, the stability of public finances, and also, of course, when a country's development policy, the social policy of the State, is also presented, there is a current question whether public finances will be in line with the fiscal rule, not only with the perspective of accounting, so to speak, not only with the perspective of finance, but also with the development and stability of the country. Many international organisations today remind us that economic growth is cooling down. In particular, the International Monetary Fund reminds us that there is still time for reforms, that there is still time for change. I also agree here that the better words of amendment are to make this legislation more stable in the area of pension insurance, if you wish. That changes in health legislation are needed and so on. We are also warned by the European Commission that we have a large structural deficit, an excessive structural deficit and that something needs to be done here. This is also linked to amendments to another legislation. Honourable Minister of Finance: Will public finance documents comply with the fiscal rule? Here I ask you for 2019 and, of course, for the medium term also mentioned in the Financial Rule Act?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u106	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. This morning there was a meeting of the Committee on Finance where we discussed this very issue. The Ministry of Finance has prepared and the Government has also endorsed this framework and today it has been discussed on the Committee and will likely be discussed in the National Assembly this week. This is an extremely important budget act and I am pleased that the Committee on Finance has confirmed it by 9 votes in favour and no votes against. With this framework for the preparation of budgets, the Government has drawn up a document setting out the target balance and ceilings, the maximum ceilings of the planned expenditure for the State sector as a whole, i.e. S13, as well as the target balance or ceilings of the eligible expenditure for all four public cash financing. We have set the target balance and the ceiling of expenditure for the state budget, of course, as the most important cashier at the level of €10.16 billion. In this part, I am pleased that the target balance is 0.3% surplus in relation to gross domestic product, so in this part we are talking about surpluses over expenditure. As you rightly said, we must consider this part very carefully so that in no case does the expenditure exceed the revenue. Once again, the government has drawn up a document in which revenue in the state budget is higher than planned expenditure. Similarly, at the municipal treasury level, the target balance is set at a positive 0.1 per cent surplus over expenditure and, of course, at the level of the health and pension allowance, the target balance for the State sector is 0.4 per cent compared to the gross domestic product. I am especially glad that this house is solid after many years of shortages. From 2008 to 2016, for the first time, we recorded the minimum budget surplus in 2017, which we show this year. The government is planning a surplus in the budget balance. Once again, I stress the surplus as one of the commitments and as one of the most important components of the aspects in the preparation of the budget balance. On the other hand, the government has committed itself to reducing public debt. In the European Community, there is a growing emphasis on public debt, on reducing public debt, so that I am more precise. In this part of the world, Slovenia is among the more successful countries, and only Ireland is better than we are in the euro countries. From the expected 70 per cent of public debt relative to GDP, Slovenia will target this reduction in 2019 to 66.6 per cent. And, as it is said, it is among the most successful or successful countries in this work. In the structural balance in this deficit it is necessary to achieve it, to implement certain reforms, we are all aware of that. However, in this part these reforms must be carried out without going, for the first time, to the detriment of economic growth and in the second part of social categories. I am aware that this year's proposal for a rebalancing in this work is such that we will devote part of this economic growth from the past to these vulnerable social categories. That's what we did. On the other hand, we have been successful and have been successful in providing budgetary surpluses. So we are one of the few countries within the European Community that will succeed [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a request to complete the answer? Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, you have now given us some information on this, but this fiscal rule law has also established a fiscal council. And the fiscal council is that guardian of the stability of public finances. And with regard to this decision, which we discussed today on the Committee on Finance, the Fiscal Council gave an opinion, which in fact sets out the framework of future public finances for 2019. And look, this is a very disturbing opinion. It states that this decree, which provides for a specific fiscal policy for 2019, does not provide an adequate basis for the sustainability of public finances over the medium term, is still valid for 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022. The projected developments in this decree indicate a distance from achieving the medium-term sustainability of public finances. The exception to compliance with the rules in force is expected, in other words, a cyclical reduction in the share of debt in GDP, which is said to be unique, and this is said to be cyclical. The fiscal world says that in 2019 around €270 million should be reduced by 1 per cent of gross social product. The accession to the consolidation of public finances has not been sustained since, at the time of the expiry of the remaining austerity measures and with the public financial consequences of the measures already taken in 2019, the structural balance is projected to deteriorate. In short, net expenditure increased faster than the long-term potential product or social product. The Minister of Finance, all the things you said, they don't hold.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u110	Maybe an explanation first. We have prepared this framework for 2019. And we have clearly announced and also explained to the Committee that, on the basis of the spring assessment of Umar, we will prepare a further three-year framework for the entire medium-term period. It is essential to emphasise that we have a balanced budget, that Slovenia continues with further fiscal consolidation. Perhaps we are not aware and would point out once again, we have a budget surplus, very rarely had it and I am pleased that we have it in 2018, is planned for 2019 and is planned for 2020. In preparing the proposal for a rebalancing 2019, today we have adopted this framework, continue with the class and, of course, at the 3rd budget meeting, when we adopt the proposal for a rebalancing, it will also come to the hearing in the National Assembly, in particular, we have taken care of the two to be sustainable, to show surplus and to address the social categories correctly on the one hand. In this proposal this year, we have set up quite a few social categories. The 2019 budget is socially oriented, but a balanced budget, I reiterate, with a financial surplus. Where we disagree with the fiscal world, we show 0.4 per cent surplus in relation to gross domestic product, and the Fiscal Council believes that this should be higher, one per cent. The EUR 270 million gap is a key issue whether we will devote this to worse times in the future and give everything for worse times in the future or, even today, after many years of crisis, we will do something for these social categories. No one objected to this category, nor did you. We are all aware that we must address these social categories. I would point out once again that we have found an appropriate balance here and that we have shown surpluses and that we are showing debt reduction. In the European Union, we are now facing a major problem in some countries that are showing a deficit and which is increasing debt. Here Slovenia has taken a major step forward, we have surpluses and we are reducing public debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. You have a request for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I propose that, given the lack of coordination of the budget framework and, of course, the budgetary documents with the Fiscal Council in the National Assembly, we discuss the Minister's response to the public debate in order to coordinate this somehow. Firstly, because I think that the Fiscal Council is the body that is in this respect from the professional point of view, the point of view of the Fiscal Rule Act itself, the constitutional category of the fiscal rule, which is simply to be respected. I know that it is not mandatory, this Fiscal Council, to take into account that the Government takes it into account, but, however, stable public finances also ensure the stability of the economy, the stability of society's development in the medium and long term. For this reason, of course, I propose that this public debate be held at the time of the adoption of the budget, or the best thing would be before the actual budget is also adopted to determine what is actually that the Government and the Fiscal Council are not harmonised here. Yes, we all agree that more money must, of course, be given to the social categories. However, we all know that the fact that it has been given more for social services does not mean that we must therefore have uncoordinated budgetary frameworks with the Fiscal Council. After all, it's very easy to take here somewhere else. Is it possible, perhaps too late today, to sell state property for more money? That could've happened, too. Now these social categories must not be the reason or reason why we have too little money or too little budget surplus in this regard and, of course, too little reserve for years to come. I don't think we can just settle for that. The budget is just over 10 billion. And now that we have given more to the social community, this does not mean that we have to have unstable public finances on the other hand. If you look at the data of the Ministry of Finance or Government, how much revenue has been increased in recent years since 2014, then you can see that this is more than a billion and a half. And that money, some of that money, it was social. For this reason, I propose that the debate be held and that these matters, of course, be brought into line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Gregor Židan will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, in 2014, the end of the previous term was adopted at the initiative of Members and Members of Parliament, by the Law on the Crossing Insurance of Professional athletes, which pursued noble objectives. We agree. When you adopted this law, for the first time, you were a minister and were opposed to this law because of systemic imperfections, inaccuracies and shortcomings. During the previous term of office in 2015, a new law was adopted on bridge insurance for professional and top athletes, which eliminated these imperfections and placed the content of the law in the legal order and thus made it possible to implement it at all. This law has also led to the establishment of a bridge insurance fund managed by KAD. In view of the many problems that have been evident since the adoption of the original law 2014, the law in force provides for the liquidation of this fund if the number of members or athletes is less than 200 or that the funds invested are less than 100,000 euros. The liquidation process begins and leads the fund manager and the liquidation costs are borne by the Slovenian Sports Union. What's the most important thing about this thing? In view of the fact that Article 43 of the current law should be determined by 30 June 2018, whether the liquidation or recovery of this Fund should take place. At the end of the previous term of office, the Group of Members and Members re-proposed a new law extending the deadline for implementation to 31. 12. 2019, which clearly indicates that the condition of 200 members and EUR 100,000 of net assets has not been reached. In this regard, I ask you: What is your position on this liquidation of the fund? How many members have the fund? What is the net asset value? How far is the liquidation, which procedures have already been carried out? What plans do you have to do with this in the future, given that the new bridge fund cannot be created after the liquidation has been completed in accordance with the provisions of the current law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As far as your question is concerned, I'll say I'm sorry first. I am sorry that I was right, namely, in 2014, the law that we brought through with great anguish also had a lot of comments by the Law-Legal Service of this National Assembly, but in the end it went through, of course, never came to life. Even with the corrections that took place in 2015, unfortunately not. Unfortunately, I am speaking to this National Assembly because of this, of course, because the law has a noble purpose. There is no doubt that the purpose is right, but unfortunately, the law did not come to life after the 2015 amendments. What you are saying is that at the end of the previous term, of course, it has never been brought into force in the law phase, which is why this law has never really entered into force. And, of course, this was followed by action, because the Capital Society can't do it differently than it can do it by law. Because this fund on bridging insurance for athletes 30. On 6th this year, no member was registered, and here I answer your question, nor did he have any resources, such as my data, the capital company informed the registry on 3 July that it would, of course, begin liquidation of this fund. When I took office, the President of the Capital Society Board announced to me, in which he only informed me that procedures for the liquidation of this fund were under way. As it was said, unfortunately he didn't make it. Let us leave it for some purely legal reasons or, of course, because it is not really an interest or an interest, some also say, is not even for all sectors of interest for this type of transitional insurance of athletes, but whatever. The matter did not come to an end, and this fund went into liquidation as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The Member will make a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your answer. I am also extremely sorry that this fund has not come to life. I would only like to point out that during primary school and secondary school, the Ministry takes care of athletes by allowing them the status of athletes. When athletes reach a high point, they take care of them in clubs and these organisations that are around the club. I wonder what to do after their careers when they're left behind and they forget what they've done for Slovenia. My personal view was that I was lucky to have had the opportunity to work and see, or see, what could happen to me after my career at a time when I became a professional athlete. A lot of athletes don't have this option because he's somehow seduced. So maybe I could ask just one more question: Is there any possibility that during an active career some kind of education may be introduced in this direction in order to educate or prepare these athletes for the path that awaits them after their completed career? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much. That's exactly what we're thinking. All of these projects, which are something we call home-based projects of another career, go precisely to the point where athletes can start their so-called second career by then or are already educated or at least have extensions to be educated after their completed careers when they no longer have so much active sports obligations, so that they can, of course, all the remaining years of active life that they have long before them, work and experience, but have a lot of experience and have many very positive values that are welcome to this society, so that they can contribute to this society. In principle, we can sort of divide them into two types. The part of the measures we carry out during our careers are either adaptation to educational conditions or additional opportunities for educational conditions, including the fact that we employ top athletes in public administration and so on, that certain work experience can also be gained. And on the other hand, those measures that are after a career would, say, also this bridge fund, but we see that it has not come to life, of course, after a career is also an opportunity for education and one type of other thing. But I think there's something else that matters. It is also important that we know that, in view of the benefits sport has for society, I think about the issue in an integrated and possible way in terms of greater systemic measures, such as investing in sport, tax relief or tax relief in the employment of athletes, etc., in terms of an active employment policy, in order to introduce such systemic measures, which would be limited systemic measures, all with a view to moving from an active career to an active career and in this work career or in so-called other careers, then athletes are as successful as they were in their first, this is a sport career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Kepa will ask the Minister of Infrastructure an oral question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister and the other ministers, nice greetings to everyone else! During the 10 years since the introduction of the vignette for the use of motorways for passenger cars, Dars has only begun to remove toll stations, leading mainly to long convoys of vehicles on the busiest parts of the motorway network in the transport and tourist season. Most of the removal works on toll stations were carried out on the coastal highway and on the mountain section of the highway by removing toll stations. In Styria – Vransko, Teping, Slovenian Konjice – and in Dolenj – Krško, Dob – evaluation work has not yet started. This is left for the following year and for 2020. Calls were made for these projects and complaints were also made. Are these complaints resolved? When will the evaluation works begin on these toll stations? The publication of invitations to tender for the demolition and alteration of the remaining toll stations, six front and twelve sides, was planned this fall and work is scheduled for next year. Are the invitations to tender concluded without appeal? When are we gonna start working on these last ones? When can citizens expect the free movement of traffic along motorways across Slovenia, because it is at these stations that additional guests and traffic stops? The removal of toll stations will also greatly increase safety on our highways. How much longer are these removals going to last? Why was there no call for tender for smaller operators, thus allowing for cheaper and faster implementation? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you very much. As the Member has already said, Dars, as manager of the Slovenian network of motorways and fast roads in 2018, has already successfully demolished and redesigned 13 toll stations. An additional five toll stations were included in a public contract, which, due to a complaint to the State Audit Commission, was not legally terminated and consequently it was not possible to sign contracts with operators and carry out construction works. At present, this is still the case within Dars for the conversion of five toll stations. In parallel to the above, there is also an invitation to tender for all the remaining 16 toll stations. So there are 21 other toll stations that need to be demolished. According to Darsa’s plan, most of them were expected to be disrupted in 2019, some minor works or parts were expected to remain for the first months of 2020. It is said that in early 2020 our highway cross will be transported without toll stations. As far as the cost is concerned. Unfortunately, I don't have these numbers with me, because you didn't say that in the announcement of the question. But I'll provide you with these numbers later.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Aleksander Reberšek, Minister of Justice Andreja Katič. Here you go, Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Secretary! The comparison at European level in 2018 reveals that Slovenia is at the bottom of the line with respect to confidence in judges. However, it is at the very top about the amount of funds it makes available to the judiciary. If we look only at the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, 353 judgments have been issued against Slovenia so far, of which 329 have been found to be a violation of human rights. In the past year alone, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found 82 violations of human rights. That our judiciary is ineffective, many cases suggest that laws are not implemented or implemented very badly. If we look at the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, regardless of the fact that the Constitutional Court annulled this July a part of the law establishing retroactivity in cases where the prescribing or criminal proceedings began before or after the law was enacted. 1. 1990, we see its ineffective implementation. After seven years of validity of this law, very little of this property was taken away. And even though many of the affairs that have taken place on the day show that the situation is alarming and that state property is illegally damaged, there is no improvement in us. In the meantime, European countries such as Serbia, Ireland, Italy, without major problems, are taking over illegally acquired assets. I wonder what's different in our country. Is inefficiency caused by bad laws or simply by a lack of genuine will? Can we talk about fair and fair trial if even the absurd message of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia that it will only respect the convincing judgments of the European Court of Human Rights does not get an epilogue? And the epilogue gets a case where an average citizen steals pâté and is punished for the smallest offense. Therefore, Slovenian taxpayers are justifiably angry when they use their taxes to patch up the billions of holes that have been unearthed in the budget by irresponsible persons in banks. Unfortunately, the Slovenian judicial system is not capable of dealing with these persons in such a way as to give them a judgment or a judgment of acquittal. It often seems that the outcome in court depends more on power and influence than on rules and laws. Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees equality before the law for all citizens. So by law, we are all the same. Unfortunately, it's not like that yet. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: What will you do to make the Slovenian judiciary more effective? You're thinking about the individual responsibility of judges and prosecutors? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u128	Dear Vice-President, honourable Member, a nice greeting to you all! Similar questions have been raised several times in the past in the National Assembly. I would first touch on what concerns trust in institutions. I believe, as I have pointed out in the past, that flat-rate allegations of non-implementation of laws, not even visible representatives, including the legislative branches of government, further undermine the confidence of citizens and citizens in the judiciary. The worst opinion, as we know it, is that citizens and citizens have one way or another about Parliament. Unfortunately, it's not good about the judiciary either. Interestingly, though, those who face the judiciary directly say that those who deal with their case have a better opinion, a better assessment of the work of the judiciary than those who have not personally met with it. As far as you're concerned. First, I would answer the question of individual responsibility. For years, the Penal Code has contained provisions on illegal, biased and criminal proceedings. Article 288. provides that a judge who knowingly violates the law or distorts the right to harm or unjustifiably give an advantage to a party in the proceedings shall be punished by imprisonment for up to three years. The same shall also be the case with judges who, for this purpose, object to facts which they know do not exist, whether they are falsely instilled in them with lies and unlawful evidence. You might also be reminded that last year, said to be a bad year ago, a new law on the Council of Justice came into force. The Council of Justice thus protects the independence and independence of the judiciary and has also received an important role in ensuring the quality of the work of the courts and judges and the public reputation of the judiciary. In this regard, let the nanism of certain powers of the Council of Justice concerning disciplinary proceedings. The Council of Justice hereby appoints disciplinary authorities, takes initiatives to bring disciplinary proceedings against a judge, and also executes disciplinary sanctions against a judge if, under the law governing a judicial service, he is subject to a disciplinary sanction to suspend progress, reduce wages or transfer to another court. I would also mention the Commission's important role for ethics and integrity, including in 2016 the comment on the Code of Judicial Ethics. The principles of the Code bind all judges in the performance of their judicial service and outside of it. You mentioned that we have — or we have bad laws. Indeed, the case of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin is one of such cases when the profession at that time warned the National Assembly of the shortcomings in relation to the provision which was repealed by the Constitutional Court this June. What can we do if we can do anything for the time before we go into effect? You mentioned the ECHR rulings. Slovenia respects the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Last week, you also discussed amendments to the legislation on deleted in Parliament, and I would also like to give some numbers myself. Between 1993 and 2017, 9 000 2038 complaints against Slovenia were lodged. Of these, 95.4 percent were, or 8 thousand 736 were unacceptable. By the end of 2017, the ECHR had issued judgments in 353 cases and found infringements in 329 cases. But in this regard, let me mention a large number of complainants, for example in the Ališić case, we are talking about the old foreign exchange roles of the Ljubljana Bank, as well as the Kurić case, deleted, which I have already mentioned. I agree that any violation is unacceptable. In 2018 we have detected violations in five cases: Čeferin, Peace Institute, Benedict, Wizgirda, PRO PLUS, but the Republic of Slovenia respects the decisions of the ECHR. As an example, I would also like to point out the Kurić issue once again, precisely because there was a debate in Parliament last week on this. It is clear from this case that such matters are not only a problem of justice, but of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole or more of its institutions. Finally, the number of judges and funds allocated to the judiciary would be touched. The backlogs that have accumulated since the past, from the insufficiently deliberate reorganisation of the judiciary in the 1990s, are now no longer a systemic problem. For many years, the Slovenian judiciary has managed to resolve more cases than it receives in the same period, and in this way continues to reduce the number of pending cases. All I would say is that, in 2017, the court had some over a million 52 thousand cases at work. So if two million of us are weak, that means at least 2 cases before a court in every family in Slovenia. And your comment on the funds. Most of the funds are earmarked for salaries, but it must be said that in the past period, the number of judges has already decreased and that we will continue to do so, and that we will also have to compare competences when we make comparisons, including with the number of judges.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The Member shall have the floor to clarify the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we are all alike in words, in fact, we differ, so I expect your concrete actions. You are probably aware that you are leading one of the key ministries and that you are still very much responsible for the situation in this country. But here I am primarily thinking about the implementation of laws. Of course, laws are the same for everyone, but we are not equal before marriage. And there is no poverty in Slovenia because we cannot feed the poor, but poverty is because we cannot feed the rich. That's enough, Your Honor. That's enough. Whoever was watching the show on TES 6 quickly found out why you were in this place. You're the dot on and in this system. You probably know the story a lot more than I do, but if TES 6 has lost half a billion and no one has been convicted, there is obviously something very wrong in our country with justice. And it's you who's responsible for justice. Millions of euros are disappearing, we have high taxes, we drive on bad roads, we have long waiting lines, and people are dying, and finally we have bad salaries for our employees. And if you were to act and stop all this theft of taxpayer money, you'd have lower taxes, you'd be driving on better roads, and our employees would have significantly better salaries. Therefore I will set you free in this place: Take action! Ladies and gentlemen, take action. The Slovenian people have enough of this. Stop the theft of the taxpayer's money. The specific issue is, in the end: What will you do to ensure that those who have harmed our country are actually responsible for this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u131	Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you. I didn't understand that statement that we couldn't feed the rich, but it was probably a lapsus. What have we done now during this period? Some of the system laws have already been passed in the past, to mention only changes in the justice process. Soon you will be addressing the new law on unfair procedure, of course, by referring more closely to the new family code, which has been adopted in the past by the National Assembly. And before you, there will soon be a change to the Criminal Procedure Act. Then we must also give time to these laws, given that this year or the second year, a number of procedural laws have been adopted in the past year, which will also allow for better functioning of the courts to produce results. And I believe that the results will be and that justice will see the light of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u134	Yes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to request a discussion at one of the following meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u135	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 December in the framework of the votes. The following has the floor to ask Mr Željko Cigler, Minister of the Environment and Space of Juret Lebna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u136	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! 72. Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly stipulates that everyone has the right to a healthy living environment and that the State must regulate the content and extent of the right to health in an environment which is not at risk. The wider area of Celje is one of the most ecologically polluted areas in Slovenia. The pollution of agricultural and urban centres is and remains one constant problem and poses the greatest threat to the public health of the inhabitants of the city and the surrounding area. The constitutional right which I referred to earlier in Article 72 of the Constitution to people living in Celje and the surrounding area is so constantly violated. Extensive research has shown that many of them were made, high soil pollution in the Celje Valley area, and since 1989, data have been catastrophic. The comparison with this data in 2016 confirmed that the situation is not improving, and sometimes even worse. And even the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which carried out the 2013 survey, achieved such results. The monitoring of soil made by the City Municipality of Celje 2016 confirmed, as I said earlier, that pollution with heavy metals is not getting any better. In particular, pollution with cadmium, lead and zinc prevails. However, scientific evidence confirms and even the World Health Organization points out that this is a case of cancerous, highly carcinogenic things. Their average values, these substances, far exceed Slovenian averages. If we analyze attic dust in old buildings in Celje, those built after 1940, they prove a hundred times higher cadmium rate, fifty times higher the value of other pollutants, such as the situation of contaminated areas elsewhere in Slovenia. And the Ombudsman has always pointed out that the project of ecological rehabilitation of Celje and Celje Valley is undoubtedly taking place too slowly. The issue must be given priority treatment. There are 7,000 hectares of over-polluted land and 2,000 hectares of farmland in the Celje Cadmium, since all the years agricultural crops are produced, even grass for animal feed in this area, which is not suitable for animal feeding, since cadmium is mainly converted into the food chain. In short, we have a major problem of pollution with semi-manufactured particles of PM10 and 2.5 of diesel fuels that pollute the city of Celje every day, especially because the third development axis goes through the centre of Celje with 13,000 vehicles every day. Large areas and levels of pollution, in particular land in the wider Objective area, are emerging and require priority treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, while you have very well announced the replacement of land in ten celery kindergartens, I ask you to do so: When will it be? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u137	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u138	Thank you, Member, for the question. I'll try to answer in two parts. One thing is that my attitude towards the Celje Valley itself is that, despite being in the Katovica negotiations last week, I was familiar with the parts that revolved around in the media at the old newsroom. We sent a construction and environmental inspector of the Republic of Slovenia because of your warnings to Members and a bunch of journalistic questions. We have found that on the entire land, a circus 120 times 170 meters south of the service road, the terrain is levelled from the west and north to the east and south. A Circus 70 centimeters [70 cm] of earth was unearthed, and a mound about three feet [1 m] high. Since the inspection assessed this to be a simple facility, and since it is the responsibility of the municipal or inter-ministerial inspection services to control such operations, we have resigned the matter to the Interstate Inspectorate. We deal with the Celje Valley issue daily because we are aware that this is one of the priority areas. That is why it is related to the question that we have already heard today – degraded areas. We need to make a register, we need to identify these contaminated plots, we need to find the owners, and then we will have to adopt procedures in the environmental law on how to approach certain fliers. To enterprises that are part of state ownership, there is one procedure, to private-owned enterprises, another procedure, to companies that we do not know who the owner is, is once again a third process, so that we must do so in the environmental law. Today, I have already mentioned that in the municipality of Celje we have a landfill of Bukovzlak, to which we already have here an action by the European Commission, with which we have received a timetable for the implementation of the measures, that we have already completed the necessary research and that we are counting on the completion of the recovery in June 2021, as we have discussed with the Commission. Then forward, the Celestial Cauldron is problematic, with the ground we have problems in celery kindergartens, these are 10. This is the most affected generation of children, because they are outside because they put land in their mouths, we have to react to them, even because I am a father, we have reacted in such a way that the ministry will provide one million euros in 2019/2020 for the rehabilitation of cell kindergartens. That is why we have moved immediately to the preparation of three sub-legislative acts: the regulation on the criteria for ensuring the level of burden, the Children's Playgrounds Regulation and the Ordinance on the Classification of Children's Playgrounds, and therefore immediately to the public hearing that we have completed 10. December. As I said, we will provide money from our own budget 2019/2020 that we will save things. We are aware that this area is one of the priority areas, but we cannot go head-on through the wall, first systematically as regards the entire degraded areas and then the project point in those areas that are the most attractive. For us in the Celebratory Cauldron, there's this one for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you. The Member of Parliament shall have a request for a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I warned in the introduction that a lot of analysis had been done, a lot of warning, but the situation is virtually no one's getting involved. In 2013, an environmental analysis was prepared, which was presented in the introduction by Mr Židan, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, where he said that an analysis had been prepared and that a decision and action programme would be adopted in the coming year as to how this matter would be approached. It didn't do anything. As we discuss and sit here, it interferes in the field of old Cincarna. In 2012, the Department of Health in Celje warned that it is necessary to approach the problem of pollution of the entire area of old Cincarna immediately and once. No one controls it, there's just a little plate, where everything is dug up, and now heavy metals are passing through to Hudinja, Voglano, Savinja, and then through Savi forward and dust particles are flying towards Celje. People's health is being threatened. Indeed, it is expected that urgent and rapid action will take place, i.e. professional bases and analyses are therefore ready. If it could have intervened in Mizica, I don't understand why it can't join the identical programme in Celje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u141	I don't know if I've made myself clear. I'll do it again, since 13. 9. We have further aligned the time-table for the rehabilitation of Bukovžlak with the European Commission, made three sub-legislative acts in order to be able to rehabilitate 10 kindergartens in the Celje boiler, which is essentially the responsibility of the municipality not the country, we will provide the money for this, we have started to work on the register of the decommissioned areas themselves, precisely so that we can identify the necessary rehabilitation in the Celje boiler, and have a meeting with some companies in the Celje Valley. The case that you are referring to, Zincarna Celje, yes, has done her analysis, will invest quite a few million euros in order to recover this part of the watercourse, and this has also been publicly presented. We have actively approached this since 13 September. We'll fix things in Celje. What happened before, I'm afraid I can't comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament shall have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u143	Dear President, I propose that because the problem is not only beech-green land but also old Zincarna, but also public areas, children's playgrounds across Celje, agricultural areas, as I mentioned earlier, dust, pollution dust in attics of houses, I suggest that the matter is only so wide and important that it is addressed by the National Assembly and held a broader debate at one of its future meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 December in the framework of the votes. Come in. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go, Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you. Good-bye! Dear Minister Mag. Alenka Bratušek, my question concerns the field of energy poverty. We know it's winter today. The temperatures have fallen heavily under the ice for the first time. Many of our fellow citizens cannot afford to be warmed up. There are 10% of such citizens in Europe, around 7% in Slovenia, and I would like to highlight 20% of the poorest. 20% of our citizens in the household devote 20% of their available income to heating and other energy. Therefore, in 2017, the ZERO programme was adopted in Slovenia, Reducing the Energy Poverty of Citizens. For this purpose, €5 million has been reserved to implement certain remedial measures to the most vulnerable. I want to know: How is the project to reduce citizens' energy poverty taking place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u146	Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u147	Thank you so much for asking. I am happy to be able to explain, but at the same time it is a little sad that this project has not run as we would like to do until today or so far. At the beginning, another small difference, this ZERO project, is the reduction of the energy poverty of citizens, which is implemented by the Eco-Fund, is carried out through the energy advisers of the ENSVET network. The aim of the project is to carry out a number of assistants, approximately 300 visits per year, to the target group of citizens. It started in 2014 in Zasavje and Prekmurje and then expanded to the whole of Slovenia. In view of the identified needs, citizens receive energy efficiency tools such as savings lamps, window seals, totalling up to €50, which advisers also install free of charge if necessary. The 5 million you are asking about are the funds provided in the Operational Programme of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020 for the resolution of energy poverty by subsidising energy efficiency measures in 500 low-income households, which means EUR 10 000 per household. The aim of the measures is to reduce the growing problem of energy poverty for households facing this problem. In order to achieve the objective, the following eligible measures are envisaged: the implementation of energy-efficient renovation of the shell of the building, the apartment covering the replacement of external building furniture and/or the execution of thermal insulation, ceiling insulation, against unheated space, the insulation of the attic, the optimisation of the heating system, the replacement of energy-consuming consumers with energy-efficient consumers, and, ultimately, energy advice, assistance, information and communication. At the Ministry of Infrastructure so far, all preparatory activities have been carried out and the whole project design has been developed.Implementation of measures for more efficient use of energy in households for the eradication of energy poverty. It is thus envisaged that in 2019 measures could be implemented to eliminate energy poverty in the circus of 50 households and thus achieve 10% of the targets both in the financial and substantive fields. In the coming years until 2022, we would make about €1.1 million of investments annually, and in this way, I will say, place or use all available European funds. Perhaps why Borzen was originally envisaged for the implementation of this project or programme and why it was necessary to change the operator of this measure. The change of the operator, according to Borzena, d. o. o., to the Eco Fund, was due to the issue of the exemption of income for eligible recipients of grants. Borzen, d. o. o., is an economic company, the Eco Fund is a public fund, and it is obvious — this was the interpretation of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia — that if it goes through a public fund, it is not counted or people who would receive it should not have to pay income, but if it were carried out by an economic company, it is called Borzen, d. o. o., and people who would receive these grants would have to pay income from it, which, of course, also in my view, would not be right.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The next one will ask the question of the Magi. Marko Pogačnik, Minister of Finance of Dr. Andre Bertonclja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u149	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance! I would like to ask you further about the decision of the Constitutional Court in relation to holders of qualified shares in banks. By October 2016, the Constitutional Court had already decided that judicial protection had not been adequately regulated in the removal of shareholders and bondholders in the resolution of the banking system. The Constitutional Court ordered that the National Assembly no later than 15. 5. 2017 adopts the relevant legislation. Dear Minister, by 15. 5. 2017, today we are almost at the beginning of 2019. We all know that the Ministry of Finance has already sent in the previous mandate a proposal to amend the legislation regulating this judicial protection for the deletion of so-called subordinate bonds and shares, but not all stakeholders were actually satisfied with the bill, both the professional public and the general public, deleted, the society of small shareholders and, last but not least, the Members and Members of Parliament have rejected this law. Your term of office has been about 100 days. I want to know: When will you prepare an appropriate marriage? However, we know, unfortunately, that the Ministry of Finance is actually late today in a number of areas of legislation. Last but not least, we have also witnessed the Audit Act, when Slovenia even had to pay about 8 000 euros a day. The fact is also that, in the interim period of September, the court decided to repay one of the holders of Bank Celje’s bonds and now to the associated Bank that the funds must be reimbursed to the purchaser of those bonds together with the principal and the interest. [[…]] I would also like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: What's going on in this area? When will you make a decision at the Ministry of Finance or at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u151	Dear Member, thank you for asking. It is true that at the time of my term, there were a large number of proposals waiting for me on the table or in the drawer, some of which have been dragged for three or four years. I must say that as soon as the term of office, practically the first days, I put most of these into an emergency procedure, 10 of them have already been carried out through the legislative procedure. In just one case, which lasted four years, we missed so much, unfortunately we actually received the penalty. For what you're saying last – we haven't yet taken the court's decision, so I think we've caught the last train. We're on this job, and I have to say this, and in this part thank my team, we've done a lot at the Ministry of Finance. And there's something else, I agree. One of the laws that is is also this law on the judicial protection of holders of qualified liabilities of banks. I'm afraid this case has been going on for too long, too, we're at least two years behind schedule. During the previous term of office in November 2017, the Government laid down the text of a proposal for a law on the procedure for the judicial protection of holders of qualified obligations by banks and sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption. A general debate was held in the National Assembly on the proposal for a law, but the legislative procedure for the adoption of this law ended in view of the end of the mandate period of the previous reference to the National Assembly. At the beginning of the new term of office, 13. 9. We immediately approached the drafting of the text of the law on the legalisation of the case of qualified holders, which will fully comply with Constitutional Court decision 295/13. I would like to point out that the bill will be prepared with the next objective of ensuring a speed, cost-effectiveness and uniformity of decision-making in disputes between former holders and the Bank of Slovenia. The bill will contain solutions designed to minimise the costs of the proceedings and the costs of the work of the court and to ensure that former holders are protected as effectively as possible. In doing so, particular attention shall be paid to the arrangements which will ensure access to the data required by former holders for the preparation of lawsuits, while also ensuring the protection of personal and confidential data and of business secrets, in particular of third parties not directly related to the subject matter of the dispute. The draft law takes into account the fundamental principle of the Banking Act, namely that former holders are entitled to compensation if they were worse off because of the Bank of Slovenia decision than they would have been if there had been no decision. The drafting of the bill will also take into account the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on a proposal for a law already dealt with in the National Assembly in the previous term. Due to the linkage of professionally demanding content, intensive coordination of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice professional services is currently under way, and the finalization of legal solutions already prepared in order to ensure that the judicial protection of former holders of qualified obligations is effective. I would like to point out that the drafting of a bill that will follow the Constitutional Court's decision is one of our priorities. It is planned that in January 2019 a draft proposal for a harmonisation law will be prepared in accordance with the coalition contract procedure and further public hearing as soon as possible. Following public consultation and inter-resort coordination and the examination of the newly received comments and opinions of the interested and professional public, we will advocate that the Government determine the text of the bill and send it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the first quarter of 2019 for its consideration and adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, do you have a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u153	Madam President, thank you once again for your input. Dear Minister, I thank you for this part of the answer. This means that we can probably expect a bill that would come to the National Assembly somehow in the first quarter of 2019 if I understood you correctly. Now I wonder if you can answer another additional question, namely, in this interim period since the decision of the Constitutional Court, which means from 2016 to today, there have been a number of ideas about the so-called out-of-court solution. I want to know: Are you also talking about an out-of-court solution at the Ministry of Finance? Whether you're thinking about it or not. If you can tell me this way. And you haven't answered my question about the court's decision, which is for one bondholder of Bank Celje now, I would say, the legal successor of Banka ordered that this committee pay back the principal plus interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u155	I'm going to say again, actions, activities of the previous government, I really don't want to comment. This is too long, and we both agree on this – at least from 2017, if not earlier. In the interim period, of course, several proposals were put together, and there was also talk of out-of-court settlement. The Ministry of Finance, at least in my mandate, will carefully examine all these matters and this matter is also on the table and is being professionally coordinated, especially at the level of the Ministry of Finance and, of course, in this work also with the Ministry of Justice. It is also appropriate to define the time limit in this regard, as I have indicated, for this first reading to be presented in January 2019. So in this part, I'd like to give my word first to the profession. As for Bank Celje, I can get more information, we will give you a written explanation, I just think that this is a matter which is not directly related to this work, but more about the matter of informing the recipients. But once again, for this part of the answer we will then prepare a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša also has a question for the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u157	Nice greetings, Vice President, Mr. Minister and other ministers, all present! At the request of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments following an urgent procedure. One of the measures taken was also an additional restriction on notary and legal fiduciary accounts in the Republic of Slovenia, without any action being taken in relation to the fiduciary accounts of foreign holders, although the Ministry of Finance in public communication warned that fiduciary accounts did not constitute an appropriate solution in terms of the effective search for the debtor's assets and the effectiveness of the enforcement procedure and that they had a negative impact on the possibility of verifying the assets carried out under the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. I have even observed that domestic entities have been directed towards the use of fiduciary accounts abroad, which I find unimaginable and unacceptable. I'm asking you: Do you know the value of the securities of Slovenian issuers in the fiduciary accounts of Slovenian holders and the value of the fiduciary accounts of foreign holders? What do you intend to do or do that raise the issues that you have raised yourself not only for Slovenian fiduciary owners but also for foreign owners? And I'm especially interested in: Do you know the value and the share of shares of the New Ljubljana Bank, a shareholder sold in a recent public tender process, has he been squandering at the fiduciary accounts of foreign intermediaries? On the basis of the new law, how will you provide the public with the NLB Share Book, a share company, including with regard to the economic shareholders of foreign fiduciary intermediaries, since one of your arguments for adopting the proposed restrictions on fiduciary accounts was just to ensure the clarity of the Share Book? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u158	Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u159	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. The Ministry of Finance shall not monitor the regular number of fiduciary accounts and the value of intangible securities held in fiduciary accounts. These data can change daily and are managed by the KDD, a clearing company. According to KDD, it was 12. 12. 2018 in the central register of open 722 N accounts, this is the so-called nominee fiduciary account. Of these, the stock of securities is in 132 accounts. This means that the 590 fiduciary accounts currently do not contain the state of the securities. Of the 722 accounts, 22 accounts are the address of the holder of the fiduciar's account in Slovenia. Among these 22 accounts is the stock of securities at 12, there is no stock of securities on the remaining 10. Value display on day 12. 12. 2018, first address, then number of accounts and value. Slovenia, number of accounts 12, value 103 million 77 thousand 452.52.52 euros. Foreign address, number of accounts 120, value 17 billion 174 million 991 thousand 864.44 euros. So total: 132 accounts at a value of almost 17.3 billion. With regard to the so-called instructions to be given by the Minister, I must say that the work of the Ministry of Finance is a serious and responsible work. And I have to admit, I had a little laugh about it. I would like to point out that the statement in the part as published was taken from the context. I certainly guarantee transparent work for the benefit of the countries and citizens and citizens. I would like to clarify that the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the ZTFI-1, which, as already mentioned by the Member, has recently been adopted, is one of those laws that have been on the table for many years or in the Ministry or Parliament's or Parliament's case, as it does not matter, and for which we have actually received the penalties of the European Union. I don't think Slovenia is rich enough to pay a million euros in fines. But it is also true that since the beginning of the mandate, we have also, with your great help, brought him through the procedure. We have now accepted ZTFI-1. In view of the implementation of European capital market rules known as MICD-2 and MICR. These are acts setting out the conditions for undertakings providing investment services and/or trading in financial instruments and the conditions for trading venues where these financial instruments are traded. In addition to the content needed to comply with the European legal order, the new law also contains provisions which regulate in more detail the scope of the investor claim guarantee system. The new law on fiduciary accounts provisions, with the exception of the time limit for lawyers and notaries included under the letter from the Bar of March this year, which is justified in terms of the protection of small shareholders, has not changed in any way in the light of the regulation in force so far. Fiduciary accounts are still banned or very restricted only in specific cases, such as cases of lawyers and notaries' accounts. With regard to the latter, I stress that these are not included in the investor claim guarantee system, which has a significant impact on investor protection. It is true that fiduciary accounts abroad are allowed on a more general scale, and this also means that everyone can buy shares through a fiduciary account abroad. In the past, precisely for this reason, in the context of the then prepared amendments to the Financial Instruments Market Act, it has been proposed that the ban on fiduciary accounts should also be lifted in our country. The National Assembly then rejected the proposal plebiscitefully. At this point it is worth noting that the Slovenian regulation of intangible securities accounts is based on the principle of direct ownership. This arrangement represents a special feature, since indirect possession is established in the European space, mainly through fiduciary accounts. It should also be borne in mind that in the international financial area, the so-called property chains in which more investment firms or banks may be involved are coordinated.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The Member of Parliament shall have a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u161	As far as I understand the Minister, did we not understand correctly – was there a penalty of a million? [[…]] One million you mentioned something. I'm also curious: How many of these NLB shares went into these accounts? If you have that information, what I asked in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u163	That's right. Honey — I think there were — 12 or 13 laws that awaited me on the table was also called the ZTFI. In this work, I must once again express my very great gratitude and recognition to the experts at the Ministry of Finance, the professional services and, finally, to you here in the National Assembly, and of course, I must not forget the Committee and the assistance of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance that we have indeed arranged this in record time and the law has already been passed. Unfortunately, we missed a few weeks in a few years when this law was unfortunately dealt with in various instances. The penalty under this heading, yes, costs the budget of the Republic of Slovenia approximately EUR million. I'm sorry. Once again, Slovenia is not rich enough to pay these penalties. In my mandate, we put all these 12, 13 laws into procedure. Most of these have already been adopted in the National Assembly. We will certainly make an effort in all other laws — one of them was the law of so - called subordinates, which we are also quick to deal with — so that this will no longer happen. This is actually about the objective responsibility of the ministry or ministers in this part when these things happened. But I wouldn't comment on that in this place. Yes, the penalty, as you mentioned, is about a million euros. All the other penalties, including with regard to the Audit Act, which has been adopted recently – I also thank you for this support and understanding – I think and I believe that we will avoid this punishment because the case is already in court, and I hope that we have indeed caught the last train to avoid it. With regard to the question you have raised regarding the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and how much there is in the fiduciary accounts, I will turn to the professional services and we will prepare a written answer. I'd like to know the frame number, but I don't want to give you some kind of incomplete information right now, and we'll prepare information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr President, there is still a request for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u165	Although I am, in principle, satisfied with the Minister's replies, I still want a broader debate to be held at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thank you. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 December in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Boris Doblekar, Minister of the Environment and Space of Juret Lebna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u167	Dear Minister of Environment and Space Mr Leben, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Once again today, I will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Lebn, a question I will address with emphasis on regulating watercourses and maintaining and addressing the consequences of their rampage. What is the situation in the field of water or chandeliers regulation in Slovenia? We know that sudden storms with strong floods and wild storms are one of the major threats in recent times, especially due to climate change. I want to know: How does the Ministry deal with this problem? Are there any activities in the direction that local communities or municipalities are given more authority to regulate watercourses in their field? We know that concessionaires who care about this throughout the country are, however, interested in whether in the future we can expect that the congregations will be given more responsibility to regulate watercourses or these storms in their field, because I believe that this work can be done in the best way possible. There is also a specific question on a case that is not the only one in Slovenia, and I think it is right to raise it because it is from my area, from Zasavje or from the Municipality of Lithuania. Where is it that the area of the destruction of the Loki stream at the Tolstem summit at Vach or between the Lower Hotic and Vachami in the municipality of Lithium of 13 July this year remains intact? There is still damage to the reef and the banks of the Loki stream, and the floods have not yet been removed. The Water Directorate has announced that the funds for rehabilitation at the Tolstem Summit have been approved, but work is still not done. Access to the property at Tolstem top number 2 is still impossible. So, access is impossible and disintegration is still the same as it was on 13 July this year. In this regard, I am therefore interested in: When and how will you address these consequences so that owners can access their properties? I thank you very much in advance for all the answers to my questions and your thoughts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u169	Thank you for the question, Member Doblekar. First, let me do some scrubbing of the system you're asking. Since 2016, the State has established a Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water, which has since taken care of water and water management and coastal land management. With the new year 2019, the water directorate will become one point, all in one place for the editing and maintenance of watercourses. At the Ministry itself, we will prepare only the basis, the water management plan, for example, and the implementation of European projects. At the same time, the Water Act lays down mandatory State economic services — what you have already mentioned — which are responsible for carrying out works and tasks in the field of operation, maintenance and monitoring of water infrastructure. The means for the implementation of the public service are provided for in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, works are carried out on the basis of the annual programmes of the public service work, which are also endorsed and implemented by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water. The Ministry is primarily working to improve the water management situation by providing continued and sufficient funding for the implementation of the economic public service, where the amount of investment has increased significantly over the past years. It will also be in the future, because, as Minister for my priority, I also give myself to regulate, maintain watercourses and thereby reduce the consequences of floods. In recent years, a total of €16 million has been provided for the implementation of economic public service activities in the area of water management for the provision of regular investment maintenance and weather recovery programmes in 2016, almost €30 million in 2017 and €37 million in 2018, and we will continue this continuity in 2019/2020 in order to have the area of water regulation under control. With regard to damage in the Loki Rim area at the Tolstev Summit in Vach, the Directorate is informed and monitored. The storms in July 2018 caused damage to the shores and floods of meadows, and in the riverbed there are smaller deposits of sand, which do not affect the flow of water, and additional damage to the shores also caused storms with a strong wind at the end of October, and the injuries were recorded in the damage inventory. Which is recording, the costs will be borne back, just like the law says. It's not just here, you know, it's been happening all over Slovenia. Where it was really acute, say Tržič and Jesenice, we also provided money from our ministry immediately – so that, say, in Tržič we could allow people to go to school, to work. In this case, however, we also have an additional challenge because part of what is mentioned here is damage in the field, and it also falls to the congregation. I suppose here is your further question, in fact, whether we have ever considered that this would be transferred to the administration of the congregations. I think that now that we have transferred all the remaining investments and maintenance from the Ministry to the Water Directorate and have also established a point of all in one place, communication with our field monitors will also be easier – you know, the Directorate has positions in Slovenia – and then only local cooperation with the municipalities. In this way, I imagine that the programme of work of economic public services will also be better identified for the future, including information from the local environment, where there are problems, but for the time being, I do not imagine that we would be transferring this to the municipalities, because this means that the municipalities should also be provided with additional money. This also raises the question of if a flood occurs if there is any damage to who is responsible, whether the congregation or the country. You know these amounts, say in the Municipality of Tržič we are talking about almost 20 million euros. Then the question is, who's responsible? I think it is better to provide a system at the state level, to improve effective communication with the local community and by the State to provide continuous financial resources in the budget so that the economic public service can operate smoothly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The Member shall request a supplement to the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. I must say that, while I am partly satisfied with the answers, particularly with regard to the general work, but in particular with regard to this issue, which is not alone, it is indeed true that this issue should be addressed exclusively by the State, but obviously some communication noises have occurred. In addition, this is the Natura 2000 area, which is likely to further complicate the situation. I am therefore very pleased that you have prepared well for my question, indeed, the issue is pressing throughout the country, especially in areas where there is an increasing incidence of wildlings, flooding and floods of windstorms, probably due to the impact of climate change. Although I am satisfied with the answer, as I have already said, I would still ask for some further clarifications. In particular, I would point out once again that, in the opinion of the local communities, there is a lack of regular maintenance of watercourses which are exclusively owned by the state, taking place in both municipal and private areas. The currents, hills and reservoirs of water, streams and rivers are often uncleaned, the municipalities point out this, but the response of the Directorate for Waters or Their Concessors is unsatisfactory, and the reason is most often in money. The state does not provide enough money for regular maintenance. So once again, I'm going to point out a few more cases that prove this to be true. In the area of Lithium Municipality, which is often threatened by the wild river Sava and its tributaries, there is an example of Loki stream near Lower Hotič, which, if regularly maintained, would certainly not have been the disastrous consequences that landowners who have destroyed their property must bear. Nor would there be so much damage and as a consequence the cost of building owners in the Lithium Buildings, Smrekarica, Ponovice, Sava and Lower Log settlements at any major rainfall. While you are the new Minister of Environment and Space, in your work so far you are showing a lot of positive energy to address many of the irregularities and problems in this area, I am still interested in how you will deal specifically with this area and whether the state will provide more resources [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u173	I fully agree with the assessment of the situation, so in the previous term the government has begun to invest more money annually in the economic public service. When we come to the issue, first of all, all in one place to regulate watercourses and flood measures at the Water Directorate, then to ensure a continuous amount of money even in 2019/2020 in the budget so that this can be implemented, and the internal direction also on the direction itself, better communication with the local community in the preparation of an economic service programme in the future. I think these are effective steps to bring about the rehabilitation and maintenance of those watercourses that are critical at the local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament shall have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you also for the additional explanation or answers that I must say are promising, particularly as regards communication and more resources for this purpose. Given that the problem is very acute because of a wide variety of circumstances, due to increasing, strong flows and, as a result, significant damage, I suggest that we take further seriously the prevention of damage, particularly on property. Given that, inter alia, we have been waiting in Lithuania for, among other things, the Ministry of the Environment and Space to arrange an accessible route for the intervention vessels of the voluntary firefighter company Lithium for more than a year to become involved in the rehabilitation or elimination of the consequences of the wild poacher Loki stream at the Tolste Summit in Vach since this month July, I propose that the Ministry consider greater powers over the management of watercourses to municipalities, as I have already mentioned, or to local communities in their areas, because they will take the best care of watercourses and that citizens and citizens will not suffer harm, particularly due to the ferocious storms. We know that funds are now being allocated directly from the State budget through the Waters Directorate to concessionaires across the country, and in this case, perhaps these funds would then, at least, be allocated to municipalities for regular maintenance, which I believe would be more effective. In order to take a systematic approach to solving this problem to achieve consensus on more dedicated money for prevention, above all, I think that regular maintenance and consequently much less to address the consequences, and that many procedures for obtaining different consents and permits to intervene in the surface of watercourses are much faster, I propose that a thorough discussion be held at the next meeting of the National Assembly on this issue and on the responses of Minister Lebn, with whom I have been satisfied and given some hope for a better future, concerning these very pressing issues, which have major consequences mainly for landowners and property owners when damage occurs. And once again, especially in order to reach some agreement, to devote more resources and to take a more serious approach to the regular maintenance of these watercourses and, therefore, no more money will have to be allocated to address the catastrophic consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 December in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Dr. Franc Trček, Minister of Health Sam Fakin. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary! The question I will ask you has been asked several times by the previous Cerara government, both in writing and in oral form, both to the government and to the ministry. It is a question of the human resources issue of almost increasing malnutrition of anesthesiology at the Maribor University Clinical Centre. I can honestly say that I don't care about some general debate, and I will not ask it in the end, but it is up to me to resolve it. The story has a very long beard, clearly in the not-very-quality personnel policy of the previous UKC Maribor leadership, which was then led by a prominent member of the SDS – this is just a footnote under the line, because, in particular, this mandate has so far been debated that we are all responsible for everything except one party of the opposition. But this will not, of course, solve the problems and problems of being on our side of Trojan or if anything happens to you on our side of Trojan in the field of health is secondary. I expect from you the answer, first and foremost, how and when. There were some solutions with the anesthesiologists from the River, not only that there was a feeling, but there was some fact that there was more of a lawyer mediator in between than this fireman solution. One proposal from the UKC and the current management, in agreement with domestic anesthesiologists, is clearly a problem at the level of the UKC – a health insurance company. I want to know: When will this yoke of serpents now stretch — how long? – four or five years, finally cut to the benefit of all of us and to the benefit of some normal functioning of UKC Maribor? I thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ambassadors and Members, President! This is really a yoke of snakes, but it is possible and media really need to say some numbers that are moving, the number of specialists and specialists in 2010: 25 specialists and 7 specialists, together 32 anesthesiologists, and then there was no problem with that. Then the number of specialists fell and in 2015 they were cut due to retirement and abroad, so that we had 20 specialists and 15 specialists, total 35, and today we also have 35 specialists and specialists together, with the number of operational interventions not increasing significantly or the number of hours needed to do so not increasing. First, of course, we went to look at the numbers. This August, they applied for a decision on a specific programme in the field of anaesthesiology for the period October to July 2019 and did not read a large explanation, the foreigners they had were much more expensive and therefore they proposed to enter into agreements with the locals. However, business contracts may be concluded if: the service cannot be performed within the framework of regular working hours, the health services cannot be provided with the appropriate organisation of work, the source of funding must be provided and the economic justification shown for concluding a business contract with its own employees must be respected, the right of the employee to a day’s rest must be respected. Only after all the above conditions and it has been demonstrated that the organisation of work cannot be carried out with other forms of work can the undertaking contracts be concluded. On the basis of the above data, we have suggested to the Maribor Clinical Centre that they reconsider the organisation of work and see if this could be done with a different organisation of work. We don't have that answer yet. In view of the fact that the application for a specific programme in the field of anaesthesiology has been endorsed by the Council of the Institute, we will ask UKC Maribor at the Ministry of Health to submit the analysis proposed for decision-making in the world of the institution and in accordance with the provisions of the Rules on the criteria for determining the level of payment of health services under the Land Contract or other civil law contracts as Minister, I have to be sure before I give this permission that they have indeed taken advantage of all existing organisational options. [[…]] And once again, until three years ago, there was no problem with the same number of anesthetists, and now they are.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be asked by Mr Tomaž Lisec, Minister of Education, Science and Sport of Dr Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Government, especially the distinguished Mr Pikalo, colleagues, colleagues, all together a nice greeting! They say he likes to go to third. I asked your predecessor twice the same or similar question about the issue of sports infrastructure in Slovenia. Sport infrastructure in Slovenia is on average as old as I am, 40 years old, and in the last four years almost nothing has happened, or if I say with numbers, in 2017 and 2018 the State of Slovenia invested €5 million through the state budget and together with the assistance of the Sport Foundation in sport infrastructure. All those who have ever participated in any new construction or in the restoration of sports infrastructure, you know what amount we are talking about. That's what we're talking about, I'll say, a regional athletic or football stadium and nothing more and nothing less. According to data from 2016, when the Ministry sent the questionnaire to all municipalities, the need for about 800-900 million in Slovenia is only from the sport infrastructure. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested in a few things: How are you satisfied with sports infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia? How do you see its development in the last two years and how will you establish the development of sport infrastructure at least in 2019 and in 2020? How much will you enrich the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in this area? How in other areas, especially here, will I aim for the Sports Foundation and perhaps some other resources, to enrich the problems ahead? However, the problems are for sports infrastructure, both local ones – from minor renovations of gyms to new buildings, to some regional sports centres in individual sectors – and not least for individual state buildings; whether they urgently need reconstruction or wait in line for new construction. Therefore, at this first stage, I would like to know whether, unlike your predecessor who did not have a hearing for the development of sport infrastructure or had only enough of it, after we adopted the amendment in the National Assembly, you would put €2 million more into the state budget, and then, for 2017/2018, fight €700,000, so that the call for sports infrastructure was €2.7 million. [[…]] In short, in the first part, the well-respected minister, I ask: What is your vision of the development of sports infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Mr Member! I can't help but thank you so much for this question. I'll tell you why. Because the Slovenian public generally does not know what you mentioned yourself – that the sports infrastructure we have in Slovenia is old. But my data doesn't show she's as old as you say she is, but she's not much younger. I've got two figures. The first data is 27.6 years on average and the second is, I think, about 34 years. These are two different targeted research projects that were made in different periods, one in 2012, one in a little later. But in any case, regardless of statistics, years up and down – sports infrastructure is bad. And secondly, maybe it's wrong because I said bad. It is old, which does not necessarily mean that all parts of this infrastructure are poor. We have some parts – as you know they are mostly, in the vast majority, except for one object, owned by municipalities. The only facility owned by the state and managed by the state is Planica, of course, and in the same for Planica we cannot say that it is in bad condition, but we can say that it is in a very good condition and that it works very well. As satisfactory, I can say, it is also possible to assess sports facilities in primary schools. It is mainly for multi-purpose gyms, that is, for what is best for all of us in connection with schools and afternoon sports recreation or participation, including competitions. However, we cannot possibly be satisfied with certain parts of the infrastructure, such as sports pools. Even Prekmurje does not have a truly covered swimming pool. Then there are other parts of Slovenia that do not have serious covered surfaces. For example, we lack annual areas for the development of hockey, art skating, curling and so on. We're running out of other things, like this special type of surface. What is good is that with the development of general sports infrastructure, namely those multi-purpose halls, sports such as basketball, handball, these sports played in the halls can be developed and can also be acquired in quality. But we can't say that about all the other sports. You're absolutely right when you say that there are identified needs – my number is 881 million and another previous number was, I think, about 600 million. If you are now specifically asking me whether I am satisfied, I think it is clear from my implementation that I am not. Second, what should we do? It is clear that in the years until 2008, we gave approximately, I think, about 5 million — between 4 million and 6 million — per year for sports infrastructure. We must not forget, too, that in the previous financial perspective, the possibility of financing sport facilities from the Regional Development Fund, from the ERDF, was an option. Now this option is no longer available, and also in the crisis, as is the case with other investments, if we look at primary education, kindergartens and so on, where the state should co-finance investments, these investments have not really been there since 2011. So the funds have been falling all the time and, of course, I will do my best – and this is the part that you have challenged me to – to at least repeat in 2019 and 2020 what you have achieved with your amendment, as well as with what has been added later, to at least repeat this amount that we are moving forward with this development of sports infrastructure. Of course, it will not be enough, especially if we know that the entire amount of identified infrastructure is 881 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you. I'm glad you'll try, but you're a minister who doesn't just have to try to make sure, but I'm an unfaithful Tomaž who I'll believe when I see the numbers in the budget. And I like the fact that we agree that we can thank Dr. Beast and his colleagues who made the top center in Planica. And we can especially thank the mayors from this city for doing what the state does not do in this area. In the last six, seven years, in addition to the total, from 2013 to 2018, the 10 million that the country has given, the largest Mr Zvone Černač has given. First and second calls, energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities – how many municipalities have saved, which have mainly been restoring sports halls. And here may also be a hint, dear Minister, that you will meet with your ministerial colleague and perhaps also find yourself in this European perspective at least for rehabilitation, if not for the new construction of any means of sports infrastructure. In short, I expect, whether today or in the coming days, weeks, especially months, to see these numbers – 881 million needs – at the Ministry, and consider what is essential in the area of local communities, what is necessary in the area of regional centres and also in the field of state sports infrastructure. Above all – and I will conclude with this – that you will not only try to do what not only young athletes tell you, but also top athletes: give us space to train in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I think we need to put some things right, though. First time, Planica. It is true that Dr. Beast has begun, and it is fitting that this recognition should also be given to him in this national assembly. But they went on not one, but two, three, I think I was fourth, and then another colleague came after me. So if we're talking about who did everything with Planica, because it's a national project. And even in the National Assembly, you have worked hard, and sometimes you have put in some kind of interpolation to make it clear. Well, he wasn't just one minister who deserved it, but the rest of them had interpretations about it. Another time. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I also made it very clear who owns it. So the average is also part of the story for sports objects. So if we're talking about this, we need to be precise. Third time. I agree with you and we are already working with the Ministry of Infrastructure on energy rehabilitation of school sports facilities, because we all know that the problem is not as much in construction as the problem in later management, where things cost extremely much when it comes to energy waste. If you had a scrotum on you, then I'd promise you a number. But you and I know how things are going, so I always say – and I'm not giving up – that I'm going to try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u189	Thank you, Vice President. I think it is right to discuss the development of sport infrastructure in Slovenia in particular, where we are talking about the needs of all local communities, regardless of where the mayors, the left, the right, the upper, the lower, ours or yours are, and we are talking about the number of circus 880 million needs. We can also discuss in that general debate whether the average is large enough or not. The mayors tell me that this average, this raise, which was confirmed in 2019, is not enough for the local communities to raise. Perhaps even when we have a general discussion, we should thank both Dr. Beast and you, Dr. Pikalo, for what you have done for Planica, but the fact that then your successors have more than taken pictures of something you have signed is different contracts with contractors. The Municipality of Sevnica alone needs more resources in the next two, three years than the State has dedicated to sports infrastructure in 2017 and 2018. 2.7 million, this won't even be for our Sevnica sports and recreation centre, which we urgently need. Together with the Municipality of Krk, we think about when we will have a pool, where we will not change the pool bottom and generators each year. Our very good shooters are shooting more between raindrops because they're squeezing them, and so on. In short, there is a lot of desire, and I think that each of the Members could tell their experiences, but above all I would like to say their needs, because once again, if we can be united and where we can be united, we can do this in the field of sport. And if Members do not accept the general debate, believe me, at least in March 2019, as I did in 2016, I will convene an urgent meeting of the Education Committee with similar conclusions, as I wrote then, which is that sport infrastructure in Slovenia is more valid, because if we have good sports infrastructure, we will also have our young people where to give it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 December in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Mrs Ludmila Novak, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Dr Mir Cerar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, all present ministers, you are quite here today, all well hailed! But I'm going to ask Dr. Mir Cerar as Foreign Minister. At the end of November, you were visiting Italy, and you met with representatives of the Slovenian Nationality Community in Italy earlier and took note of the issue, the current problems, the open issues. It's commendable that you took your time and listened. But I'm interested in how you did it with the Italian government, what assurances you got. We know that it has been promised to reduce or eliminate the subsidy for printed media. There is a particular threat to the Coastal Diary, as well as some other printed media, which are extremely important for the Slovenian minority in Italy and, of course, in other countries. These media connect them, inform them, and, last but not least, the language used daily in writing and reading is extremely important for this community, so of course it would be a great shame if the diary were cancelled, as well as other media. We also know that Slovenians in Italy have been advocating this for many years – and of course with them – in order to obtain their representative in both Italian parliaments, both in the Chamber of Parliament and in the Senate. Unfortunately, they don't have that assurance. Now we have one MP who has been elected on the list of the Democratic Party, which does not mean that it will stand solely for the rights of Slovenians, Slovenian minorities, but is a member of another party. We know that the Italian minority in Slovenia has a guaranteed Member, as well as Hungary, and therefore, of course, we expect all the time, we demand some reciprocity. When the electoral law is amended, this rule is not sufficiently facilitated to ensure that the Member is granted. The rules must be such that the Member can then be elected in real terms, not just on paper. My question is: What assurances did you receive when you discussed these open issues with representatives of the Italian Government?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. Dear Mrs. Ljudmila Novak! It is true that I met in Rome on 27 November with the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Italy, Mr Moaver, and the day before, I had a comprehensive conversation with representatives of our national community in Italy to inform me in detail about their views, facts, wishes and others. In Rome, there were also other topics at this meeting, not only the media, but also the parliamentary representation, as you mentioned, about the re-establishment of the institutional omija for the Slovenian minority and, last but not least, about the implementation of the commitment to return the National Home to Trieste. I've raised all these questions. Minister Moavero explained that the aim of the lack of financial resources under the publishing law is to reduce state support to media which, according to the opinion of the public, are not eligible for financial support from State resources. At the same time, however, when we explained to him the problem from the point of view of the Republic of Slovenia, including our minorities in Italy, he expressed his understanding that in the event of a reduction in funds under this law, the financing of printed media of national minorities should be separately regulated. And it is no coincidence that the following day there was also a government meeting that dealt with it, and it was at the initiative of the Italian Government that it was then 3. The 12th controversial amendment on the abolition of the financing of printed media from 2020 has been lifted, i.e. withdrawn, for the time being. I think that there was also the activity of Minister Moaver, because he personally assured me, then and also later, when we saw him now in Brussels and Milan, he told me that he was active in this area. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia will, of course, continue to monitor this situation closely, and through diplomatic and consular representations in Rome and Trieste, it is in daily contact with representatives of our national community and with Italian political representatives at national and country level. So this contact is being maintained, we're maintaining communication. We welcome the extremely clear response in support of the rights of national minorities, which came from the highest political representatives in Italy, namely Italian President Mattarella, as well as Prime Minister Conte, and also from the country and municipal representatives, irrespective of their political affiliations, when proposing the abolition of state funding. Here we can see that activity has also been detected by our minorities, including ours. [[Incomprehensible]] In discussions with representatives of the Slovenian National Community, the Italian political representatives also expressed an understanding of the specific situation of the minority press and indicated the possibilities for the future long-term regulation of the minority press, particularly through the establishment of a special state fund or, for example, by raising funding for the protection law. With regard to the representation of the Slovenian National Community in both Italian parliaments, we find that the Italian electoral law nevertheless includes provisions referring to Article 26 of the Law of Protection. This means that in Furlania - The Julian landscape is one of the one-time constituency constituencies for the Chamber of Parliament and the Senate, designed to facilitate the election of candidates belonging to the Slovenian minority, but at the same time we find that this does not actually provide sufficient certainty for the election. I also made this very clear to my fellow Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Italy, who expressed his understanding of this issue. In this case, too, he promised to hold certain consultations within the Government, and I particularly welcome the fact that a discussion within our national community in Italy began on a way or mechanism that would allow for greater certainty of the election. Indeed, it is extremely important that the national community adopts a common position on this, which Slovenia will then most easily support, since there has been no such common position in recent years. So, to sum up, the Italian government, through my conversation with my colleague from Italy, that is, Foreign Minister Moaver, is directly aware of all these open issues and our initiatives, initiatives or demands. We cooperate and are in constant contact with our national community in Italy, and we are actively monitoring what is going to happen in the future, so that we will also be grateful here for any support from Parliament, because the whole of Slovenia must work, all institutions in this direction, so that we will of course ensure both the national representation and the fact that the Primorski daily, Novi Matajur and the New Voice will continue to live as our media allowing us, that is, our national minority, our Slovenian identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u195	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased with your encouraging message that you have discussed all these problems and that your interlocutors have also expressed some willingness to resolve this problem. This issue is constantly emerging, spinning, and so far I have had a feeling or thought that our government, our foreign ministers, have not been active enough in this area, so I want and I expect you to insist that these promises will also be fulfilled and realized in the future. You have recently been on a visit to Austria, where we know that there is also the problem of printed news media, where, in fact, relatively little money, they have now had to reduce the week's outing to fourteen days, i.e. the same problem. It's not a lot of money, we have good neighbourly relations, we have a lot of cooperation, but we can't solve this problem successfully. Similarly, trade with Italy is increasing, investments are growing, business and investment events in Italy are announced even February for more cooperation than I read, Italy is Slovenia's second largest trading partner, fifth after investments, and so on. This is said to be of mutual interest, that we have good neighbourly relations, that we also have good cooperation in economic and other fields, and I am convinced that the solution to these problems can help to improve neighbourly relations. Finally, the protection law also protects the Slovenian Nationality Community in Italy and it is right that its provisions are fully implemented. I would therefore like to know whether you will insist that all these promises will also be fulfilled in the future, including with regard to the national home or its return.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We speak the same language here, we think the same. You also mentioned Austria, in fact I also expressed similar initiatives and requests from Slovenia at the foreign minister's visit, so that the general funding of our Slovenian national community in Austria will improve, because for 30 years now inflation has been unchanged and inflation has consumed part of this money, if I make some human expression, but also needs have grown and, of course, it is also about supporting society, supporting our newspaper News and so on. But if I return to Italy, both in Austria and Italy, of course, we will remain awake, I have set up at the Ministry specific individuals who have to accompany me, report on where things are and how far they are moving. Of course, we must bear in mind that Italy is a sovereign country that will decide on these issues within its institutions, but at the same time, through all our diplomatic missions, including the consular office, through our minorities in agreement with them, and, above all, directly by the Ministry, we must keep in mind that these issues need to be resolved. So the commitment already made regarding the return of the National Home must be realized. I believe a 100-year-old's gonna be a good opportunity for that, so two years from now, if I'm not mistaken. And that's what we've been talking about. We have received some assurance that they will re-energize this omizia in Italy, which attracts together at the same table members of our national minority and, of course, representatives of the Government, which is extremely important. I am also pleased that our representatives of the two umbrella organisations are in constant contact with various senators, as well as with different politicians, as well as publishers, because this activity only contributes to this effort for the common objective. Last but not least, we need to maintain some good neighbourly relations, as you yourself said, because if we have good economic cooperation, cultural cooperation, of course also politically, as we now continue or upgrade it, then the hope is that, despite the somewhat radical moments that we will be present here and there in the current Italian policy, we will be able to maintain those European standards as well as the values in favour of protecting our Slovenian minority, which we are all working towards together. So I will also be grateful for the support of you, Madam Member, and of all the Members of the National Assembly in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Member State shall have a request for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u199	The Rules of Procedure allow me to propose a debate on this subject. Of course, not only because I would not be satisfied with your reply, but because I believe that we are talking too little about this issue of Slovenian nationalities in neighbouring countries, but because I think that we are discussing it on a committee, but at a parliamentary session only rarely, I think that the Slovenian public is also not aware of this issue of the minority Slovenia – I propose a discussion on this topic. I will be happy and, of course, the Slovenians in Trieste will be very pleased if there is actually a return of the National Home, which was burned in 1920, 2020, at the centennial, because I know that they are planning activities that would take place there, what could be happening there. And it is fair and just that this home, which was so badly taken and burned in 1920, is actually returned to the Slovenes. I propose a debate on the topic of substitution, cross-border issues and how Slovenia should always, at all times, stand by the Slovenians and be a faithful and firm negotiator, if I say that their rights are being exercised in relation to all the laws they protect, because that is right, the laws must be respected and respected. And we Slovenians are here and also outside the borders and we all feel Slovenian and, of course, we want the Slovenians to have the best possible conditions for work and life in place. Since this preservation of language, culture, Slovenia is not always easy, in addition to the need for money, there is also a great deal of will, awareness, confidence, education among young people and the feeling that Slovenians in Slovenia love our relatives on the other side of the border, I also propose such a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 19 December in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Lidija Divac Mirnik, Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u201	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Hello, Madam Minister, other ministers, colleagues, colleagues! My question concerns Maribor, which is this. The Infrastructure Directorate is based on the development project plan and the financial budget of the Republic of Slovenia since 2004 the custodian for the city of Maribor, two very important road infrastructure projects, these are the southern part of the western bypass between Streliška cesta, Kardelje cesta, the fast road through Maribor and the Maribor East bypass and the connecting road between the Proletar Brigade Road and the Limbuska cesta. In particular, the construction of the first road, i.e. the southern road, is very important for the city of Maribor, since after construction it will represent the main transit transport line towards the west – south and west – east, which will greatly deplete traffic. The G1-1 State Road, which runs along the Proletarian Brigades' Road to Ptujska cesta, is now overloaded with 9,000 PLNDPs, causing heavy traffic burdens, resulting in an increasing dissatisfaction of the people who live on this road. It is unusual that virtually nothing is happening in a thousand 400 meters long first stage between Streliška cesta and Kardelova cesta, at which the Directorate obtained complete project documentation of the PGD and PZI phase in 2013, and the Ministry of Infrastructure also approved the investment programme for construction. According to my information, there is still a small part of the land to be bought out for construction, but unfortunately, in solving the legal and property issues as the last unresolved problem on this route in the last few years, the Ministry and the Directorate have not been the right elena to allow all open legal and property problems to be closed down and, of course, to enable the acquisition of a building permit and the opening of a public tender for the construction of the first stage. The same applies to the section of the connecting road between the Proletarian Brigade Road and the Limbu road, which will relieve the city’s seizures. I am aware, Madam Minister, that you have only been in position for three months, that you have not yet been able to do all the things that have been left behind, but I ask you: What will the ministry or the competent authorities do to make transport problems more active than they have so far due to the incomplete transport system of state roads in Maribor? When, in fact, will the construction of both roads begin? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u203	Thank you so much for asking. The construction of the southern part of the western part of Maribor is foreseen in three stages, namely the first stage from Strelika to Kardeljeva, the second stage from Kardeljevo to Tržaška road with an out-of-town crossing with Tržaška road and the third stage from Tržaška road to the highway with connection to Rogoznica. For the first stage, the project documentation is being prepared to obtain a building permit for the removal of objects and for the destruction itself. The acquisition of a building permit is foreseen in 2019 and, at the same time, there is a call for construction works to be completed by the end of 2020, provided that adequate funding is provided. Something more about that at the end of the answer. For the second and third stages, the State Spatial Plan, the DN, as we like to call it, will be developed in mid-2019, followed by a public decomposition. The adoption of the VAT is foreseen in 2020. Activities are currently under way with regard to the connecting of the carriageway to the motorway. After the adoption of the VAT, everything else follows, the procurement and implementation of the PGD or PZI documentation, the review of the PGD and PZI produced and the revision of the projects, the development of the investment programme, the purchase of land, the acquisition of the building permit, the execution of construction works and, of course, the completion of the investment, I believe. The second stage, from Kardeljevo to Tržaška, is being considered as a priority for us or at the Directorate, as we are aware that the construction of the first and second stages of transit traffic will be possible to fully shift from the city centre to the newly built bypass road. Regarding the Proletarian Brigades Road extension project, which represents a distance of less than two kilometres, or exactly a thousand 955 metres, until the accession of the Maribor-Ruše State Road, I can also tell you that the call for construction works of the first phase is under way and the offer review is under way. The project documentation also includes the transformation of the two-band circular cross at Qlandia into the so-called turbo circle cross. The implementation will therefore be carried out in two stages, the first part of the road connection, which does not foresee a large financial contribution from the municipality, and the second part of the implementation of other connecting roads, which, as they say, will be built by the Municipality of Maribor in phases depending on the available resources. I believe you know more about this second part than you do yourself. Now maybe the part I mentioned earlier. The projects already envisaged, or the projects that many of you want, will, of course, depend on the money we will have in the next year's budget and beyond. We all, the coalition MPs, the government, know what we are committed to with the coalition treaty, as far as the state roads are concerned. I hope that in this part of this coalition agreement we will stick to you, or you will have to understand that there are certain delays in this area as well. So, even when I adopt the 2019 budget or budget balance, I expect you to take a very close look at this balance with me and together we will ensure what we have set ourselves. Since hand to heart, in the past the state, road and rail infrastructure has indeed been neglected due to the crisis, due to lower revenues in the budget. This neglect has also affected safety on our roads, and if we want to fix it, and I believe we want to, we must continue the trend that has been set in the last two years together.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The next question will be asked by Mr Jani Prednik, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec, who is absent, and Minister of Health Sam Fakin. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u205	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, and a nice greeting to all the other ministers as well! I will reopen one question in this mandate, which is drawn from the mandate, and this is the issue of hemp. Some progress has been made in the previous mandate, but at least two key issues are still not resolved, one is the medical accessibility of cannabis and preparations, and the other is the cultivation of cannabis for medicinal products in Slovenia, as this is still not allowed. In the previous mandate of the Group of Social Democrats, we have prepared several drafts of a possible legal regime, and we have also sent one proposal to the National Assembly, a proposal which would regulate the legal arrangements for the cultivation of cannabis for obtaining medical cannabis, but unfortunately, the collapse of the previous government has not taken place too quickly, of course. We believe that it is high time to stop such and otherwise obstructing the legitimate cultivation of cannabis for medical cannabis purposes, so we have also written this down in the coalition contract on page 32, which means that by 2019 we will have prepared a legal basis for the legalisation of cannabis for medical purposes. This question does not only concern the Minister of Health, it also concerns the Minister of Agriculture, who is absent today, and I hope that she will answer this question in public at my next meeting. As it is said, this issue cannot be resolved in just one sector, which requires more resources, at least a health resource and an agricultural resource. 18 years since the adoption of the Law on the production and trafficking of illicit drugs, patients and doctors continue to depend on imports and in some ways on the good will of the country, which in the fear of some officials – this must be said – prevents the production of drugs for medicinal products in Slovenia. In addition, in the Ministry’s reply, there are still some non-professional terms, such as “harvesting” of the so-called hemp, although it is a professional expression of cannabis production. In response, you also point out that Slovenia must establish a Convention-compliant system, while at the same time it has been years since your ministry – it is not your fault, but all past ministers – we expect a concrete proposal on how to achieve this. That is why I expect clear answers to the following questions from both you and the Minister of Agriculture. I want to know: How will they establish cooperation to finally enable the legal cultivation of cannabis for medical cannabis production in Slovenia? How will the terminology and designation of substances and procedures be harmonised and how will the definition of medical cannabis be defined? What means do they intend to accelerate the development and registration of cannabis and cannabis products for which we will grow raw materials in Slovenia? How will you ensure the inclusion of Slovenian breeders in the cannabis system and the acquisition of medical cannabis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u207	First of all, it must be stressed that cannabis cultivation is also governed by the European laws that we are obliged to adhere to. Slovenia is small and has problems with certain matters, putting them in place so that things happen safely and that things happen economically. Even in two countries, neighbouring Austria and Italy, whether they have a special authorised contractor who does so under strictly certain conditions that cost considerably or, in the case of Italy, I think, even the military is doing it to ensure security. That's a brief description of what's going on around the world. The fact is that cannabis or its extracts for medical purposes in Slovenia are accessible and can be obtained in pharmacies. Of course, it is not possible to get cigarettes and the resins of these things, because the pharmacovigilance that we are able to hold on to has told us which components are not harmful to humans. Security and economics will have to be examined before we decide to do so. At this point in time, according to research on how many people this cannabis, as indicated by doctors, actually needs, still the most rational option to import it, as we now import. Of course, it would be very nice for those who propose such arrangements to propose a full cost-benefit study procedure. Sometimes, you know, it's more practical, it's nicer if it's a study like this than if we let someone do it, who's already got a few questions about it at the start.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Lenart, Minister of Health Sam Fakin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u209	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear guests, ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! Dear Minister Fakin, you were recently visited at General Hospital Ptuj. Among other things, you informed yourself or discussed the progress of the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre. Along with you were the President of the Board of the Institute, the Director of the Hospital and the Mayor of the Municipality of Ptuj. There you somehow promised that the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Center would take place. Despite the fact that the matter has been developing for almost eight years, we hope that the time is right. The Ptuj Emergency Centre is an institution of exceptional importance for saving the lives of citizens and must cover the whole area of Lower Podravje. Residents living in the area of the old Municipality of Ptuj there to Lenart, on the other hand to Zavreč, as well as to the Halo municipalities, we urgently need this and we also believe that our municipal authorities also need to provide money through the Ministry of Health. The hospital believes that you have not yet looked at the project in detail and that it does not know who and when the investment will be paid and how much resources it will be able to provide. My question for you, Your Honor, is: When will construction funds be provided? Is the start of the construction expected at the beginning of 2019? In the meantime, have you or your professional colleagues looked at the project documentation in detail since your visit, and how do you feel about it? Will our emergency center be type C3 or type C2? In this typology, if I say so, several of them were mentioned, once C3, once C2, once again B, which is why maybe citizens don't know what it means. So I want to know: Will the emergency centre be such a size that it will be able to accept and deal with at least 20,000 emergency interventions annually and qualitatively, as the current needs somehow show? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u211	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. It was initially thought that there would be emergency centres in Slovenia 6. Then we somehow extended them to 10, among them, of course, was the Ptuj Emergency Center, which from me fell out of that first round. Then the emergency centre was set up, the plans were made, and the projected budget value was 3 million and a half. Then the offer that we received, as soon as I took up the mandate, was 7 million and a half, so we still need to make a decision in the 2019 budget if we are to go into this form of the emergency centre. Let me say that the emergency room on Ptuj is already happening, as it is in all previous emergency centres, also in this, and that the emergency centre will be in some form. This is mainly about ensuring adequate spaces that people do not walk through different doors to the hospital, but come through one door and do this service there. In this case, it is a matter of finding a suitable room for patients at an acceptable price. It wouldn't be a problem to build a C1, a C2, it would be a bad thing if in a year or two, you asked me how you went to build something irrational. I went to look at Ptuj precisely to see what they really needed if they needed anything sooner. They need a lot more than that. He's an out-of-date CT camera, operating rooms, and stuff like that. So when we adopt the state budget, I hope that by then we will agree on how big spaces are essentially needed. I don't want to build an emergency center that's half alone, that's just my purpose. Since I was not excited about the Emergency Centre Trbovlje because of the low frequency, my birthplace, the Emergency Centre of Brežica, is now looking for both managements, local health homes, to fill this with meaningful content. There has already been an emergency service in the trunks, but there will be a deal to be made on Ptuj, although Ptuj is half the size of a stem hospital. However, it will still not be a real emergency centre, because complicated patients, complex patients, neurosurgical, cardiac and such will continue anyway, as they are driving to Maribor today, because we are not able to provide critical masses of these specialists. No doubt about Ptuj, but the content really needs to be looked at and told about the spaces they need. The square will probably remain the same, that's not the problem, but maybe a little space will be adapted to the actual needs of the Ptujs. There aren't so many E.R.s in the daytime, or it's less, so we could use these rooms for another regular outpatient.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be asked by Mr Primož Siter, Minister of Culture Dejan Prešič and Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues, once again! My question concerns an increasingly widespread phenomenon of destruction, destruction, vandalism, damage and removal of monuments, the memorials of the national liberation fight in Slovenia. The destruction of heritage and historical revisionism is officially neither condemned nor persecuted, nor sanctioned. The problem of elimination is very wide, and I wonder in this story what is its goal — historical oblivion, oblivion, or even more, such as the rehabilitation of domesticism? I'm afraid it's not random vandalism, I'm afraid it's a more coordinated action with some ideological and political motives. The destruction and destruction of memory marks is a planned tactic that launches the march of neo-fascist ideologies, the ultimate goal of which can eventually erase the heroic contribution of the national liberation struggle for the freedom of the nation and national history. On the one hand, one parallel challenge to this problem is the following. In the register of cultural heritage from World War II, some more than 2 thousand 900 memorial units are recorded, of which 800 have cultural monuments, and in Slovenia there are 5 thousand 400 monuments of NOB, and this is not the largest group of public monuments in Slovenia. I'll ask the Minister of Culture first. The register of immovable cultural heritage maintained by the Ministry of Culture therefore contains 2 000 927 units. The register covers about 70% of partisan monuments. I want to know: Why does the state not have a list of all the monuments of World War II in a similar way to, say, a list of churches, archaeological sites, cemeteries and so on? In what way does the Ministry keep a record of the NOB's memorials and carry out their protection and maintenance? I ask the Minister of the Interior the following questions: What has she done so far, and how does the problem of vandalism face the police, who have to act on the protection and prosecution of vandals? The public does not have information on how effective the prosecution of perpetrators is. I also want to know: What are the legal grounds for the prosecution of the desecration, destruction, removal or alienation of memory marks? How and how effective has police practice been so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member, let me begin by thanking you for the question that you are drawing attention to and which, in my opinion, is certainly a very pressing issue, is the destruction of the monuments of the NOBs. In our registers of immovable cultural heritage of the Republic of Slovenia, more than 30,000 units are registered. According to our data, of these 2 000 769 units – here we have, it seems, little different data – heritage associated with World War II. Of these 2 000 769 units, 739 have been declared a cultural monument of local importance, 22 are a monument of national importance, and then we have the Franjo hospital, which has obtained protection status with an EU heritage mark. The rise not only of destruction, including the theft of tombstones — not only of memorial tablets or monuments that stand — is indeed greater every year. Here the persecution itself, as such, will probably not achieve the effect that it should have, is probably the issue of some kind of education, osmia and relation to the very heritage that we have. You have mentioned that this may be planned, that this is a deletion of a heroic act – it is difficult to determine whether it is planned or not, this should be determined by the law enforcement authorities themselves. What has the Ministry been doing for years? The truth is, it's not all written down. We're trying to get a real list of what's going on right now. We are also here in connection with the union of fighters to get the right data, and of course also with the census on the ground. In view of the increasing occurrence of injuries, sites of public monuments have been under way at the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage for several years. If there had been worse damage or theft, at least we would have had the possibility of reconstructing these monuments. And unfortunately, that's the only way the Ministry could do that to keep these monuments alive. Then there is another question that you have also asked, but there is also a policy on how to preserve and how to help preserve. An inheritance of State importance is, of course, financed by the State. Local monuments are financed by local communities, some very exemplary, some little less. We are working hard, and we have also made a study to help congregations and individuals with tax reliefs and other financial incentives because we know that many of these features are also on private homes and belong to natural persons. We are trying to see globally how these different categories can be evaluated, how financial incentives can be used to protect and digitally archive these monuments, so that heritage can still remain for generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u217	Thank you very much. If I continue, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police cannot provide accurate statistics on the damaged monuments of the NOB, because we cannot exclude only the monuments and monuments of the NOB from the statistics. The statistics therefore cover all injuries and thefts related to artistic objects. We do this in the police department in accordance with the Penal Code. And if I may finally add that these crimes have recently been significantly more investigated, above all, the theft of monuments and memorials, which are made of colored metals.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u218	Mr. Secretary, time's up. I'm sorry. That's just the way it is. Let's move on. The next question will be asked by the Minister of Infrastructure, Matthew Udovč. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. Monday, 24. 9. In Kranj, a complete road closure across the Savaski island began due to the rehabilitation of the bridge. The need for complete closure was not apparent until the construction work began, when it was found that the bridge was in very poor condition. Because of poor information Kranj suffered a real traffic collapse at the time. Despite the subsequent information and very well-marked traffic routes, transportation and the great efforts of police officers to establish current traffic, there is a great deal of traffic congestion and congestion at the tip of the road. Traffic participants are very often turning to me and asking if I can do anything to help put an end to recovery as soon as possible. They are most disturbed by the fact that, from the time of the incarceration to the present road section, virtually the rehabilitation takes place very slowly; they rarely notice that works or activities are carried out in a complete construction crew. Most of the time, only two workers in the construction site are observed. However, another problem that arises at the time of the closure and the crowding of the Kranian roads is that shops and shops in the shopping centre of Supernova, which is close to this closure, have great business damage due to the road closure. At the press conference on the site you had in September, you stressed that life is important for you and your Kranjčany and Kranjčany in the first place as well as a minute of waiting in the column. I also fully agree, but I expect the contractor to accelerate activities and projects until 5 March 2019 due to extremely favourable weather conditions during this period. I therefore ask the Minister of Infrastructure: How are the works of the Sava Bridge being repaired? Will you sanction operators if they fail to make an investment within the time limit? Do legal entities that suffer major business damage due to the closure of the bridge have the possibility of any compensation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Probably both of us, because we come from Kranj, agree that the restoration of this bridge was urgently needed, and this may have been a little under-emphasized. Secondly, I agree that communication and information to the public were wrong. I said this on the first day the bridge closed, so at the Ministry of Infrastructure we are preparing a protocol on how to inform citizens or all those who suddenly become closed in such cases, together with the congregation. But it's not possible to change things back. Secondly, I would like to point out that work is currently under way in accordance with the timetable and the release of traffic on the bridge is foreseen for 8 March 2019. To date, no one has ever bothered this date in any way, even more, every time I check how the renovation is done, they say it's all in the timetable. And more importantly, we agreed to check and see if it was possible to shorten it a little bit. Of course, it is quite dependent on weather conditions, but as you have already found out, they are still or were still favourable to reconstruction or construction until recently. I'm not going to tell you what to do today, because that probably wasn't the point. I can assure you that I am watching this project every week, perhaps because since the beginning of September 24, when the bridge has closed itself, believe it or not, I have been using it myself. Not as a minister and not as a citizen, I was not informed that I would not be able to take myself to work that Monday after this bridge. Of course, we also checked how many people and why only so many people within a certain time limit on the bridge. The answer was that as many workers as needed were always on the bridge or the workplace. If you go by now, you can see that there are more. The nature of the work at first was such that it did not allow for a large number of people, nor did it allow for a greater number of people on that bridge. Recently, however, at the opening of the exhibition, which also talks about one other road in Kranj, I met a lady who lives in the immediate vicinity, is called the first house at the top of this bridge. And she asked me to give all the praises and thanks to the workers who work in this place because she sees these things differently than we do, maybe once or twice a day past. The lady's been there all day saying things are happening all day. And once again, my commitment, your promise to you and to Kranjčany and Kranjčany is that I will continue to closely monitor the developments on this bridge and demand regular reports and strictly insist on respect for deadlines, because I am still aware of how important this road connection is for Kranj and for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u222	Thank you very much. You have a request to complete your response. Here you go, Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u223	Thank you very much for explaining. Like you said, we're both from the same place. You said you'd prepare a protocol. I think you said that a month ago. And all I want to know is: When will you prepare the protocol? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u224	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u225	Our goal is by the end of the year, we also coordinate with the congregations, so that the matter will truly be written so that we can all carry it out together. This applies, of course, to all new projects that will be held in prison. Unfortunately, things cannot change, but I am aware of what I have also told the Ministry responsible that this project did not go as well as it should. Moreover, we later found that the documentation also provided for the entire prison. And it wasn't like they were communicating with the public in Kranj that it was just going to be a partial prison. There will also be a need for more detailed and precise arrangements at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you very much. The next is Dušan Šiško, who will raise a question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u227	Thank you. Hello, everyone! In the summer of 2011, there was a larger reorganisation of the Police, which mainly involved three administrations: Slovenj Gradec, Postojno and Krško. Despite strong opposition from the local public and the affected municipalities, the Pahorje government has launched the so-called Libra project, which is expected to have a number of positive effects, including financial ones. In the first years following the introduction of the reorganisation, several reports have been prepared showing that the objectives are largely to be achieved and the other effects are to be demonstrated over a longer period. As far as I'm aware, there was no later analysis of this reorganisation. Since there have been changes in the security situation in the meantime, in particular due to the large migratory wave and the increase in the number of refugees, and especially the police and other workers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs have been burdened, it is understandable whether the current organisation of the police is indeed the most appropriate. In particular, this applies to Posavje, in which there are a number of sites of extreme national importance, such as the Krško nuclear power plant and the future landfill of medium and low radioactive waste, military airport, five hydropower plants, gas power plant, the largest international rail crossing and several border crossings. That's why I'm asking you: Have any independent analysis of the Libra project or the reorganization of police administrations been carried out, and what have been the results? Does the police itself or the Ministry of the Interior carry out any analyses and what effects have been identified? Does the current management of the Ministry of the Interior agree with the organisation of the police in Posavje, especially in the light of all the factors listed above? Why is the building on the road of karst victims 55a in Krk after seven years when police officers left Krka? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u229	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. In 2011, the police were reorganised at regional level with the Libra project. The Libra project was abolished, as you yourself said, by three police administrations, including the police administration in Krske. I visited the current Police Administration Novo Mesto on one of the first visits to police administrations, where I also took note of what you are saying, namely the critical infrastructure in the area of Posavja, which you mentioned. At this point, there is no need to re-establish the past situation, which was lifted in 2011. Why? It is precisely because the police are facing a shortage of personnel and are properly organised at this stage or in the country at this time at regional level. I must also say that the assessment of security in the area of the former Police Administration of Krka after the Libra project has not deteriorated, is favourable and is above the national average, which I can view as very good. It is true that in 2015 and 2016 the area in Brežica and Dobova faced a migration crisis. Also during this time, there is an illegal border crossing, which the police are currently successfully controlling. I must also say that there is a very important partnership here with the local community in all municipalities of the former Krko Police Administration, with civil society, so we are also trying to bring new forms of police work in the community closer to the work of the police and raise security in the community itself. I must also say that the number of offences, offences and road traffic violations at police stations of the former Police Administration of Krk is gradually decreasing and that in the area of Police Administration Novo mesto in this area Posavia has been occupied since November 2018 only 913 of the thousand 230 systematic jobs; or 12 fewer than in January 2018. This means that we are actually meeting with a police staff mania, and the jobs in the police station are constantly open, so I also invite all Posavs to work in the police, because jobs are open in these places. With regard to the police facility in Krk, about which you asked me at my presentation, I must say that the Government is 29. 11. 2016 transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the administration of the Ministry of Public Administration. In 2017, the new operator ordered a static earthquake analysis of the facility, but in 2018 it was not possible to provide the necessary resources for the implementation of the adaptation and adaptation works. I would like the Ministry of Public Administration to begin with the implementation of the rehabilitation of premises, which will then be dedicated to the use of other state authorities from the Posavia area in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Shisko, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u231	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for those answers. You know, I'm not most pleased with your answers because I have a feeling that someone is deceiving you in all this. I will say the following things in this regard. I hope that you will really manage the state areas better than your predecessors. If this building does not get users within two years, it will begin to collapse, as in Kršek the pensioner’s home has already collapsed and in the end there is a meadow. It is true that many people have preferred that in recent years there is much less police control along the roads, as instead they place empty cars or cardboards where police models are drawn. It is also true that people are surprised that only two patrols are available in Krske; and if one patrol is to be at one end of the congregation and the other patrol is to be at a distance of 20-30 kilometers to the other part of the municipality of Krško, it is a city with an atomic power plant without police. But it would be even better if we were given back to the police administration, because it is strange that the region has such important facilities as I mentioned earlier, the prosecution and the court, and there is no police administration. I will not propose a debate because it would make no sense until we have independent and fresh data on the financial and other consequences of the reorganization.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u233	I've already told you about the building that it was committed to the Ministry of Public Administration. I actually have heartache when I walk in Slovenia and look at the state of police facilities, some are really at a high level, as modern police also want to have spaces and infrastructure. I'm afraid they're not. I have to put a special emphasis here on the Ljubljana Police Administration, which is at its worst, and the next is the Koper Police Administration, which faces problems. It is true that I would like the Ministry of Public Administration to put this building back into function for the state authorities as soon as possible. I believe that if everything goes well, this will happen in 2019. But it's true that I have a good memory of this building, too. There was the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue or Civil Protection Headquarters. And when we met there many times during all the floods and natural disasters that took place in Posavje, there was always the heart of the crisis headquarters in this building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u234	Thank you very much. The next is Andrej Šushmelj, who will ask the Minister of Public Administration Rudija Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister of Public Administration, Mr. Rudy Medved! Recently, Members of the National Assembly adopted a new Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which, at the proposal of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, removed a massive automatic computerised calculation for annual rights from public funds. For the calculation of the results of the tests, it has been shown that the information system is oversupplied and would not withstand the increased burden due to the simultaneous increase in the number of electronic data enquiries. The tests were carried out following the entry into force of the 2017 novel. Let me give you a few more examples. In 2010, a new hospital system was set up in the UKC, which caused a number of headaches. We probably all remember very well the problems with the introduction of e-passengers and e-receptions, the problems with the informationization of the land book, the results of the graduation. The Ministry of Defence had problems with the transition to the new information system. At the time of its consideration of the Recommendation on drawing up European cohesion funds to the National Assembly, the Minister at the home labour body and at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly repeatedly drew attention to the issue of information systems and to all the problems that employees face at the daily level. The action plan to accelerate the absorption of funds of 6 December this year also recalls this point. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, In those cases, pilot projects were carried out prior to the introduction of the new information system or the upgrading of the existing system? If not, why not? If they've been performed, I'd like to know: To what extent have they proved effective that we have been and, in some cases, have we witnessed almost complete collapse despite testing? I am also interested in the fact that problems with the information system in the Slovenian Government Development and European Cohesion Policy Service exist at least since 2016: Does the Ministry of Public Administration, as the supervisory ministry, have any proposals to optimise working procedures and related solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u236	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u237	Nice greetings, honourable Members, honourable Members! Many questions, honourable Member, which in most cases do not concern the Ministry of Public Administration, because we are talking about specific information systems that are maintained or implemented by individual ministries. But nevertheless, we have tried and obtained answers from at least two ministries from the two most current issues you mention. Furthermore, if time permits, I may also present to you how the Ministry of Public Administration intends to be more actively involved in these matters, which has been well aware of these problems in these few months since we have been at the Ministry. In the case of the information systems mentioned above, it should be pointed out in the introduction that those systems or programmes – we are talking about systems at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy – are sector-specific applications developed and provided by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and by the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy. What I said at the outset is specific applications that have been developed by external experts at the Ministry and at the service and are expected to be successfully implemented into the system. It is a standard and classic arrangement that ministries and services, based on their objectives and tasks in their work area, carry out the procurement of programmes; and which development applications are taken care of by the competent ministries, which also carry out the substantive tasks of these applications. As a rule, such systems are developed in accordance with the methodology for the implementation of information projects in public administration. These systems are also managed by individual authorities and not by the Ministry of Public Administration. And I don't want to take responsibility for anyone else, but I just want to introduce what the real situation is. As we say, we have obtained shorter answers regarding both systems. Further answers with all technical specifications can be sent to you in writing so as not to read because they are also technically difficult content. And based on the information obtained by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Services for Development and European Cohesion; the policy of the Authority has not implemented pilot projects on its sector-specific applications or information solutions. That's what you're asking. You haven't done any pilot projects. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the implementation of the pilot project is replaced by tests for upgrades to allow for the issuance of a mass automatic IT calculation. In doing so, they identified high risks of a material, time-time, technical and objective nature and therefore withdrew the mass automatic calculation for annual rights from public funds. They stress that these are risks of a material and time-related nature linked to the complexity of social legislation, not to mention the following, which data should all be obtained. Therefore, they also tabled a proposal to amend the law, and it would not be a problem in the capacity of the infrastructure itself, but maintained by the Ministry of Public Administration. But the problem was in the apps themselves. It is also at the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy. I must say that only recently did I find out at the government meeting that they have been having problems there for two years mainly with the operation of the e-MA operating system. To inform that the problems are also there, in the last two years to the Ministry of Public Administration or to the Directorate of Informatics [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u238	I'm sorry, but your microphone is automatically switched off. Thank you very much. You have a request to complete your reply, Mr Member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u239	Dear Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer, which has been very detailed about the current or current situation; however, he has not touched on the final part of the question. Do you have any proposals for optimisation of working procedures and related solutions in preparation? Because in my opinion, if the two ministries deal with the information system, we have here obviously, in my opinion, too many participants, too fragmented planning; and the consequences can be what we have seen. Do you see as an opportunity to optimize the integration of any service that would intervene in this interdepartmental, interministerial solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u241	Thank you. I'll try for a while. In any event, the centralisation of the information system in the state administration has been very wrong so far. That's right, and I'm going to put it a little bit domestically, like we're bringing manure into the field and then we're going to throw it in a pile instead of scattering it in the field. Individual ministries are and will in the future, as far as specific applications are concerned, themselves directing the needs of their activities and developing these applications by the ministries themselves. The Ministry of Public Administration does not have the resources to do so. Of course, coordination is of great importance, which has been here on many occasions and has in many cases been very inconceivable. The Council for the Development of Information Technology in the State Administration, as we have noted so far, has not played its role. The Information Development Council is the advisory, coordinating body in which there are experts. And since the Ministry of Public Administration somehow dictates standards on how these individual applications should be implemented and put into the system, these standards should also be respected. It is not only these applications that we are talking about, but also many others, that this coordination has simply been lacking and external operators across different ministries have developed programmes, as they thought best. Will this even work in the entire system? Will it be possible to connect these matters? That was too little to think about. Therefore, one of the most important tasks of the Ministry of Public Administration in the future is to precisely identify the state of the Central Information System project of the State Administration. And that's what we're doing. And to set the optimum steps and implementation of systems in the future in order to achieve a key objective. This is, of course, the satisfaction and appropriateness of support for users.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u242	Thank you very much. The next is Boštjan Koražija, who will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. I most warmly welcome Madam Minister and all the Members and all the viewers in front of the screens at home. But the question is for Mrs. Alenko Bratušek, our Minister of Infrastructure. The energy efficiency of buildings is defined by the profession as one of the more effective methods to achieve a reduction in energy consumption and consequently the cost per unit or square metre of surface area; this has a returnable environmental impact. In recent years, we have witnessed energy rehabilitation of houses and multi-housing buildings in Slovenia, for which owners have the opportunity to run for subsidies or loans under certain conditions. Of course, with the same positive effects on operating costs and positive environmental impacts, it is also to be counted for the renovation of public-owned buildings. Directive 2012/27/EU in Article 15 states: The public sector is an important factor in promoting the redirection of the market to more efficient products, buildings and services and in changing the behaviour of citizens and businesses in energy consumption. In addition, less energy consumption through energy efficiency measures can release public funds for other purposes, and public authorities at national, regional and local level should be an example of energy efficiency. As of 1 January 2014, 3 % of the total surface area of buildings in the use of this heating or cooling sector should be acquired annually in the context of the public sector. On the basis of this Directive, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted in October 2015 the Long-term Strategy for the Promotion of Energy Renovation of Buildings and this year the completion of this strategy. The latter notes that, due to delays in the implementation of the programme since 2017, the target set will have to be achieved within seven years instead of nine. The delays were also due to the late adoption of the strategy. Since the year is coming to an end, I wonder: How is the achievement of the objectives set for the categories of buildings in the narrow and wider public sector in 2014-2018 in view of the objectives set and the commitments made by 2023? What are the data for 2018? Do trends suggest at least the possibility of achieving the targets for 2023? How much was direct savings in the cost of building management after renovation according to pre-renovation data, taking into account cost growth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u245	Thank you so much for asking. I will begin by following the objectives set at the moment, and we are on track to achieve these goals by the end of the financial perspective. Slovenia has committed itself to contributing to the achievement of energy efficiency targets and the share of renewable energy sources in gross final energy use and in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The existing building fund in Slovenia represents the sector with the highest potential to achieve energy savings, so the government has adopted a Long-term Strategy for the Promotion of Energy Reconstruction in October 2000 on the basis of the requirements of European legislation and its own national legislation, particularly identified national needs. And this strategy has two operational objectives to be achieved by 2023, 3% of the public sector’s public buildings being renovated annually; and secondly, 1.8 million square metres of buildings in the narrow and wider public sector in the period 2014-2023. First of all, as far as the first objective is concerned, this is a 3% renovation of public buildings in the lower public sector, I can say that it is in line with the orientation that public authorities are exemplary. On this basis, as from 1 January 2014, each year the state or government should renovate 3% of the total surface area of buildings owned and used by the public sector. According to the register of buildings owned and used by the Government with a useful floor area of more than 250 square metres, the area of buildings used by the Government, 782 thousand 158 square metres, is the state from 1 January 2017. This obligation requires the renovation of 23 000 465 square metres of the area of buildings each year, assuming that all surfaces need to be renovated. In the framework of the Operational Programme 2014-2020, projects of 69 thousand square areas were approved in the framework of three calls for the application of the applicant for the submission of proposals for energy rehabilitation of buildings in the public sector by the end of November 2018. All approved projects are in implementation, and by the end of this year, a poor half of these will be completed in terms of net floor area, that is 30 thousand 400 square metres. The total volume of renovations of buildings in the public sector will not be known until all reports on the implementation of energy renovations have been received and relevant evidence has been provided that the minimum requirements for energy efficiency of buildings have been reached. Only after these data are received, that is, at the beginning of next year will the common values of the energy renovations of public buildings in the public sector be known. Funding is from cohesion funds or others, because it is necessary to know that, due to our needs, we have also recovered from our own or from the state budget. As regards the renovation of 1.8 million square metres of buildings in the narrow and wider public sector in the period until 2023, I can say that by the Ministry of Infrastructure eight were invited to submit applications; 23 projects were confirmed as appropriate, totalling EUR 12.7 million and the size of buildings with a total floor area of 264,000 square metres. By the end of this year, 57,000 square metres are expected to be completely renovated. Three public calls for co-financing of energy renovation of buildings owned and used by municipalities were also published. At the local community level, there are 43 projects with funding of almost EUR 23 million; and for the area of buildings of 354 000 400 square metres. By the end of this year, there will be an energy-renovated 293,000 square metres.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u246	Madam Secretary, your computer has turned you off. I'm sorry. Here you are, Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u247	Madam Minister, thank you very much for the very comprehensive answer, because I know that this is also your priority – energy renewal of buildings. Anyway, I want to know: Are these public buildings being rebuilt on a priority scale? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u248	Madam Secretary, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u249	Thank you. Since public calls have been made public, the ministry is difficult to set priorities; however, we are aware of all the common importance and opportunities offered by European funds, because the energy efficiency objectives we have set ourselves in terms of reducing greenhouse gases and so on, we all have huge commitments here. I'm aware that we can do a lot of good with this project. But it's hard for us to set priorities like this. Public calls have been issued, and those who are ready can do so; and I call on them to sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u251	Thank you very much again. Mrs Bratušek, I know that you are really in charge of these matters, but in a positive direction I would suggest that we hold a debate in the National Assembly on this issue because it is really important; also in the light of the recent agreement in Katovica on the rules for the implementation of the Paris climate agreement, where Minister Leben also expressed the view that we must do more to preserve the environment. From the initial estimates of scientists that the climate will warm up by 1.5 degrees Fahrenheit in this century, we are now in the forecast of three degrees Celsius. The rehabilitation of buildings may not save the climate at global level, but we are obliged to make every contribution to making things better. This path is indeed for our children, grandchildren and future generations, and in fact our contribution to the renovation of buildings should also be seen from this perspective as an investment in our future. And since I know that Mrs Bratusek and Mr Leben are very good at handling these matters, I propose that we discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, in the framework of the votes. The next one is mag. Mr Dejan Kaloh, who will raise a question to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u253	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, what a lovely greeting! We now have this privilege of being last in internal affairs, so I suggest I ask you what I want. In late November, you attended a ministerial meeting in Bratislava. There you served yourself with certain data – 8,000 illegal border crossings, an average of 100 to 150 per week. More than 2 000 500 applications were for asylum, which is said to be international protection, four times more than in previous years. Many of these somehow magically disappear, then we must not wonder why the Austrians de facto close the borders because this is the way through Austria to Germany. Just like Mariborčan, I am in Graz, I go to Austria at least four times a month and I see that the police are standing there constantly, sometimes checking the documents, sometimes not; but in fact the Schengen border “also fell due to Slovenia”. Here I am interested in two, we have a sad paradox, on December 10th Slovenia acceded to a global agreement on migration. I want to know: Why did you go to Marrakesh? Why did you send the Secretary of State down there? Your Croatian colleague was in Marrakesh. Perhaps you, too, agree with those who say that the global agreement somehow equates illegal and legal migrants; and in this way, have you somehow secured your back? And what are you actually going to do under the Ministry to prevent these illegal passages that go into thousands? I am aware that in June, even before you became Minister, there was a meeting at the level of the Police Director, where some proposals or meetings were held on a proposal for joint action for this migration policy. Are there positive effects in this regard six months later? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Member, in this National Assembly, I would like to say that the police are in control of illegal border migration with the Republic of Croatia. True, the police recorded 2 000 913 illegal border crossings this year, which is significantly more than it was last year. I must also say that the citizens of Pakistan, Afghanistan, Algeria, Iran and Syria are most often admitted to the illegal border crossing. In line with its tactics and working methods, the police prevent illegal migration and, above all, prevent illegal crossings and illegal crossings of the state border by criminals and criminal associations who transport these people, since Slovenia is still not a target country, but is a transit country. The Slovenian police are very successful against this. I must also say that 2 000 725 applications for international protection were submitted in 2018, which is significantly more than last year. Again, the citizens of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Algeria made the most of the requests. I also need to know that it is an abuse of the international asylum institution or international protection that we, as a country, are obliged to give to those who also need it. This is not only a problem of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is the problem of most European Union countries. We are also talking about this in the Salzburg Forum, which was established in 2000, where Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Slovakia are also participating in alongside Slovenia. In the Salzburg Forum, we have also addressed migration issues and, as a rule, we also exchange information on migration situations in the Member States and in the region. At the end of 2016, Austria and Slovenia jointly proposed an action plan for migration management in the region. The purpose of this document is mainly to provide for mechanisms for the coordinated functioning of the Member States and to help those countries that have been under great migratory pressure. You asked me why I didn't go to a conference in Morocco; the Secretary of State went. It is also the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior who is responsible for preparing a comprehensive migration strategy. I must say that the Ministry of the Interior of Migration has been, today and after my departure from the Ministry of Internal Affairs will be responsible for migration, because migration is, of course, home at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and we manage it, both legal and illegal. And this comprehensive migration strategy is one of the commitments of the coalition treaty. The aim is to create a basis for comprehensive and cross-sectoral governance with legal and illegal migration, and this will be based in particular on interinstitutional cooperation. The strategy will include the area of legal migration, international protection, irregular migration, integration, security and external dimension. This Interdepartmental Working Group is expected to complete its work by 30. 6. 2019 when a strategy is to be drawn up and presented to the Government by the Ministry of the Interior. I think that at this December time Slovenia is facing fewer migrations, because weather conditions are not such that people travel. But the police are effective in their work. The Schengen border is dominated by Slovenia and has received the praise of German Chancellor Merkel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u257	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, you have said well – travel. Because these migrants actually travel, they travel organizedly to our country. It's a really good parable for their invasion of our old continent. You were talking about the Salzburg Forum. Slovenia will chair the Salzburg Forum from 1 January to 30 June for a half year. I was stabbed there, or I was very careful about your performance, that, among other priorities, you also highlighted police work in the community, with a focus on co-existence in multicultural communities. I wonder if you can explain this a little bit more because we are now witnessing that these newcomers who are now coming are not the most compatible with our former cultural, civilisational environment. Let me give you an example from Maribor, where Eritrean asylum seekers actually “skneeded” as we say in the jargon, they solved their problems with knives. Now we can't say they've integrated into our society. As media reports indicate that this reception centre in Metlika is supposed to install antivandal equipment, it is said that somehow we think that those who come to us will not be peaceable, will not respect our laws, not personnel at the final stage; that in fact then the attempts at attacks on police must be prevented. So in this context, I ask you: How do you, as a minister, picture this integration or the stay of these foreigners with us? Are you sure that these arriving travelers will adapt to our standards of living in central Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Member, the Office of the Government for the Supply and Integration of Migrants, the Ministry of the Interior, is responsible for the integration of persons with recognised international protection. As far as the Salzburg Forum is concerned, the Salzburg Forum is chairing the so-called troika, Slovakia holds the presidency until the new year, we are chairing Austria until 1 July and continue to chair Austria. This so-called troika also sets the priorities of content to be addressed in the Salzburg Forum. The area of police work in the community was also the topic to be used in the last forum. We need to know that Slovenia is not a multicultural community, but it is. My annual orientations as Minister of the Interior require the police to increase their work in the local community and I must say that the first effects of this work are already showing. You asked me earlier about the Metlika center. We are not talking about any migration centre or reception centre as we know it from 2015 and 2016, but we are talking about a space where police will be able to process more illegal migration to the Republic of Slovenia, where they will be able to carry out police procedures and identifications. However, there is still an exchange of received illegal migrants covered at the green border with the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the agreement. This is happening so far. I don't see any major problems here. However, we need to know that whatever authority will be in the government, whatever political color will be in the government, must be prepared for a possible increased migratory flow. We saw 2,000 of them in 2015, and Slovenia already had major problems. We know that there were almost 13,000 of them in mid-October 2015 and the police have to prepare for these things. In Metlika and elsewhere, we are not preparing any other major centres or reception centers, but only what the police need; and this is a room for identification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Ambassador Violeta Tomic will ask the Minister of Culture Dejan Prešič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will ask the Minister of Culture about the art collection of the New Ljubljana Bank. As we know, we sold NLB, but NLB also owns an art collection of as many as 2,000 294 important works of art in the 20th and 21st centuries. The Ministry of Culture, under your leadership, declared the NLB art collection a national wealth and limited its availability before selling it. According to the Ministry of Culture, the collection will remain owned by NLB and can only be sold as a whole. The State may leave the collection for certain exhibitions abroad only with the consent of the Minister of Culture. National wealth is a movement that has a great cultural value for the Republic of Slovenia because of its importance, but the Cultural Heritage Protection Act also provides that the owner or owner of the movable national treasure for the conservation of this property may authorise the museum. National cultural heritage, including art, must be adequately protected, professionally fed and, of course, accessible to the public. I am therefore interested in: Is there a public interest in the fate of the NLB art collection at stake? Why, in my opinion, did you go only halfway and the NLB art collection is not handed over to an appropriate professional institution, such as the Modern Gallery, where it would be properly fed, evaluated and accessible to the public? Where did they ensure that there is a limit to the availability of a collection that still permits the sale of a collection and also speculation, since the collection is considered invaluable by experts? We've already sold the bank at a price, and we've given them an invaluable fortune. Does this seem safe enough to protect your cultural heritage? Is the NLB collection, as a national treasure, included in the inventory book in accordance with the rules? NLB also owns several buildings belonging to an architectural or building heritage and have national value. How does the Ministry of Culture intend to regulate this area and protect its architectural heritage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Thank you very much for that question. Maybe just some information about this, 17. Ten. On the basis of Article 10 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, we have classified the art collection of NLB as well as the museum collection of NLB banking objects. Let's start over. The collection has been formed since 1820, since the establishment of the Ljubljana Savings Facility. One collection is bank items, bank savings libraries and various other items used in banking. The second collection is these 2,000 294 documented art units, which are documented. When NLB was actively involved in the collection of works of art, he consulted with the then highly recognised advisors. This was especially the case with Dr. Stane Bernik, who advised and also described the work. We've got a clear list of parts with catalogues, with pictures. On this question, when you asked if it was listed; it was described. What does national wealth determine? National wealth means that since the entire collection is protected in two parts, it means that the collection as such must remain complete. Otherwise, the owner can sell it, but only in full. As such, the collection remains and the collection must remain in the country. You can go to the exhibitions, but only with the Minister's permission. The collection's already gone. If we can recall when we presided over the European Union 2008, the collection was already fully exhibited in Brussels as a good example. And protection also means setting up professional organisations that are watching over the collection itself, feeding the collection and all other professional issues. Here was established the Modern Gallery and the National Museum of Slovenia, which are looking over the collection. It was a question of how it feeds, what condition it is, what deposits are and what happens to the collection. I must say that cooperation with the New Ljubljana Bank was very correct, including the management of the New Ljubljana Bank wanted to protect itself from the sale of the office, but above all I liked the idea of buying new works again in order to upgrade the collection. I think that they are in agreement with the Municipality of Ljubljana to be in Cukarna, which is supposed to be a visual center with museums, including this permanent collection for art objects. The rest is supposed to be in the old Ljubljana Savings Facility in Chopova, where there is supposed to be a banking museum in which the items from the museum's collection of banking items are supposed to be. Part of the collection, located in the square of the Republic of 2 Market, was declared 2014 a cultural monument of national importance. This is another step higher than the protection of the collection. This means that nothing can happen on the market in architecture, everything must remain as it is in architecture, even as it relates to building furniture in the bank itself; that the country has a pre-sale right in the case of sale. There are also a number of art subjects from the bank that are protected by this. The architecture is protected, the building furniture is protected and all art objects that are on the market and also in the bank are protected. The situation with the New Ljubljana Bank seems to me very well regulated. Since you asked if there were any assurances, I hope that the leadership will hold this social responsibility to art, to young artists and will continue to gather. But we have another question, because we still have the Factory Bank collections, we have the Bank's collections, which are at a bad bank and which are not yet regulated. There are also some very important works of art that are currently in a position to be sold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Do you have a request to complete the response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u265	Thank you, Minister. While I was happy to take this step, when I asked Minister Persak in the previous term, he replied to the same question that the owner would decide on the artistic collection of priceless values. For God's sake, we were the owner. The country owned it. And why this country, I don't understand it, didn't break down this collection and move it to some art gallery. If I were to sell my own apartment, I'd probably take away valuable items, not sell one of the paintings from my apartment to get more than that apartment. That's how a man thinks lazily and logically. And according to official estimates, this collection is worth 1.8 million, but it is actually priceless, especially because investment in Slovenian art and culture, which is so much more important at the time of globalisation. I am therefore pleased that they will continue to be able to buy and invest as much as will be of interest to foreign owners, because the bank can also be bought by speculators. They buy it as an investment and they can sell it on. We don't know who again. And I must say that I am also deeply concerned that the state has a preliminary right to something that it has actually donated. We sold the bank, but we did not sell what took 120 years and which is owned by citizens and citizens of Slovenia. I really put my heart at your disposal that it is probably necessary to keep an eye on this and do as much as possible; not only that the Modern Gallery and the National Museum are watching this collection, but that these works of art are actually taking over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the additional question. I totally agree with you. You have to understand that in the situation where I came to the Ministry when we found that the problem with this collection is, Mr Jelinčič also mentioned to me this already at the hearing that it exists, which I am very happy about. I would ask myself, above all, that we had a time in which social actors who had earned well in our market had a social responsibility to art, they cared. If we look back at some times to which we are very critical, almost every company had a cultural collection, bought art and dealt with it. Today it is very difficult to say that we have companies that care about art, who have a sense of art, who have a feeling for artists who may not have been so recognised. When we look at the collection of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, they were very young artists who over the years gained their reputation and became very important artists. What's priceless? I find it very difficult to say whether it is true about the estimate of 1.8 million euros. We find the true market value of art on the market when it is sold, when we see how much someone is willing to pay for this art. My job is not to do that. In the situation of Factor Bank or Abank, these two banks and these cultural collections, we are already in a different situation, we will not be able to get it back there because the bank is selling it as such. Here, the Ministry needs to find funds, and here we are also talking about the two collections of almost EUR 800,000 for both collections, which will have to be redeemed before they are sold. And I absolutely agree that these were state banks, that this was state property and that this should be settled before things got so complicated that we were buying our property back. But it is now the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture to resolve the situation. I can't stop wondering what happened, why it happened, which minister didn't want to. My job is to protect these artistic works in a given situation, and to give them to the next generation, so that they will never, as you said, disappear into private pockets, abroad, and we will never see them again. We'll try everything we can to fix this next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u268	Thank you very much. You have a request for a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u269	The minister said well, someone was very reckless in his work and did not protect works of art that are invaluable values; and this greatly damaged our property, for we are once again buying works of art by exceptional artists. You said that in one system, which some highly criticize; yes, in socialism, social responsibility was social responsibility, and people, especially state companies, bought works of art to help young artists at the time. Unfortunately, today in the system in which we live, there is only a market dictatorship. It's just a profit that's completely imaginary, but it's a whim. At the time, young and barely known Stojan Batič, Mirsad Begić, Janez Bernik, Janez Bolka, Ciuha, August Chernigoj, Zoran Didek, Alenka Gerlovich, Irwin, Bozidar Jakac, Richard Jakopic, to not mention the following, were those who were helped by the state through their national companies to create their works so that they could exhibit, sell. So the state created an incredible cultural capital, an incredible collection of art works in the 20th and 21st centuries, which we now, look, we don't even know if he's a speculator or a responsible bank. You know, anyway, we've always been against selling NLB in Levica, but if we are now facing the fact, I would like to discuss who is responsible for this crime. For it is a crime against art, it is a crime against citizens and citizens of Slovenia, for it is a waste of money, a cultural heritage. This is a completely inefficient and irresponsible act. I therefore propose that this be discussed at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, in the framework of the votes. The next one has the word of Dr. Darij Krajčič, who will question Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, ministers! In Slovenia, in addition to closing the offices of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, there is a much more dramatic process, this is closing the offices of Post Slovenia. Dramatic because this is a much more public service than in banks. Business offices of Post Slovenia also provide banking services. Most of this happens in marginal areas. Thus marginal areas are once again lost on quality of life and, in my opinion, completely unnecessary. What do you see at a post office today before you even start dealing with postal services? You see one ordinary trade in products that have no connection with mail and postal services. Therefore, it seems to me that this behaviour of Post Slovenia, which is probably due to the pursuit of the greatest profit, is the only criterion wrong. Let me give you an example. In my constituency, there is the Municipality of Rečica ob Savinja, which is not exactly a parish municipality, has 2 thousand 300 inhabitants, of which 240 people are older than 75 years of age and 23 people over 90 years of age. Of course, it is a generation of people who are not used to today’s digital society and who have long been locally, emotionally and culturally strongly attached to some mail. And now someone comes up with the idea of closing this mail. This greatly affects this local environment, which I find totally inappropriate. That's why I'm asking Minister Restoration: Is the country’s intention to continue this activity in the future? I suggest we call the stockholders immediately. When I called the potential stakeholders a little bit, this is the local community, the Post Office of Slovenia, AKOS, even the Ministry of Economy, said that they themselves lack such a joint meeting. If it is difficult to organize, we are ready to organize it in the National Assembly, and we will call them all together to finally discuss what we expect from mail — or just trade or quality public service. Since the Minister is not here, I suggest he answer me at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Eva Irgl will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u273	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear Madam Minister! I have already asked quite a few questions on this subject in the previous term, but this shows that we have not yet taken a major step forward. Maybe under your ministry something will change for the better. But the fact is, although economic growth has risen, we still have about 270,000 people living below the poverty line in this country. There is also a great deal of unemployment, not to mention that long - term unemployment is very problematic. Individuals therefore face severe social pressures. It is not too much to point out that about 350 thousand people are at risk of social exclusion, precisely because the state does not provide a decent life. And here we have winter, winter months. I think that, already in my previous term as a Member, I have begun to draw first attention to the so-called energy poverty, and NGOs have often talked about this and have pointed to it. The fact is, there are more and more poor households in Slovenia, as energy prices are rising faster than income growth. And if winter is long, then we have a lot of problems. Energy poverty, as you know, is the most affected low-income households, which, at the same time, face so-called social exclusion due to financial and material pressures. Personally, I have repeatedly warned that the energy, social, environmental and health sectors must be linked in order to deal more effectively with energy poverty. Dear Minister, I therefore ask you, although something has been answered by one of the Members of the Ministry of Infrastructure before: Have we moved from point A to point B and something has actually happened in this area? Do you have any recent information on how many households in Slovenia are actually facing energy poverty? When I last asked the Minister about this, she had data from 2016 or based on the situation in 2015. What changes are you planning as Minister in charge of this area in the area of social, housing and pension policies to combat energy poverty? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u274	Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u275	Thank you so much for asking. Initially, I would like to clarify that households can be defined as energy poor if they spend more than 10% of their income to provide a suitable warm apartment and other energy services. There is not yet a single internationally accepted definition of energy poverty. Energy poverty occurs when households are unable to provide suitable warm housing and other energy services, such as warm sanitation or lighting. Energy poverty is most affected by income, energy prices and consumption, which depends on the behaviour of residents and the energy efficiency of dwellings. In particular, I would like to point out that some measures were taken at the Ministry at the time of the crisis to alleviate the social distress of the most vulnerable categories of the population. One such measure was the debt write-off project. Individuals or families who show extraordinary costs related to the payment of heating or electricity costs and cannot be covered by their own income, the State provides with financial social assistance or its special form, that is, with exceptional financial social assistance. The most extraordinary financial social assistance for heating is granted in autumn and winter. In addition, I can point out that the Ministry is also involved in the implementation of energy renovation measures in the framework of the Operational Programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy by 2020 in the field of increasing energy efficiency and thus lower energy costs. I further explain that the ministry has been involved in current projects to address the problem of energy poverty over the past few years, mainly in terms of ensuring criteria for the accessibility of target groups to energy poverty reduction resources, in cooperation with social work centres. I would point out that projects such as ZERO and ENSVET are being implemented within the Eco Fund, where advice is being given with a view to rationalising the costs of use and more efficient use of energy and water, which means visiting an energy consultant with an assessment of energy consumption and the necessary measures, education on energy use and a package for less use. In addition, the Eco Fund grants the recipients of monetary social assistance a subsidy to replace combustion plants and a subsidy for energy renovation measures. As I am aware, additional cohesion funds are foreseen to eliminate energy poverty, amounting to EUR 5 million, which are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure, as well as activities to achieve as many households as possible, in which the quality of living will be improved. Finally, I would like to say that we are aware of the complexity and importance of the issue of energy poverty at the Ministry and are committed to a more comprehensive treatment of target groups, ensuring adequate conditions for the effective achievement of the objectives of the current projects and linking and promoting measures within the framework of financial options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u276	Thank you very much. The next is Dr. Milan Brglez, who will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to ask you a question I want an oral answer to. But the question is as follows. It's the Marrakesh Treaty. Blind and visually impaired persons and persons who, due to other disturbances, have been deprived of the right to read and thus have been deprived of the right to education, of the enjoyment of the arts and of the achievements of scientific progress for many years. The long-standing discrimination against these persons is partially abolished by the Marrakesh Treaty on the facilitating of access to literary works for blind, visually impaired and other reading disorders, which was confirmed by more than 180 countries, including Slovenia, under the auspices of the World Intellectual Property Organisation in June 2013 in Marrakesh. The purpose of the contract is to ensure that legitimate exceptions to copyrights and related rights are made more accessible and in an appropriate format – with adjusted font size, in Braille, such as audio book, radio broadcast or anything like that – accessible to blind and visually impaired persons with other reading disorders, such as persons with severe dyslexia, severe movemental obstacles and so on. Finally, in autumn 2017, the European Union adopted the necessary legislation to allow the provisions of the Marrakesh Treaty to apply in the European Union. Regulation (EU) 2017/1563 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 allows the cross-border exchange of copies between the European Union and third countries of blind and otherwise disabled persons in an accessible format; at the same time, Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 provides for the harmonisation of the implementation of the provisions of the Treaty of Marrakesh in the internal market of the European Union. And that's what matters. In order to be able to implement the Treaty, it is essential that all Member States transpose the Directive as soon as possible into their national legislation. I want to know: Since the deadline for transposition of the directive is 11 October 2018, I am already interested in why the directive has not yet been transposed into our legal order? When can we expect the Government to submit to the National Assembly appropriate amendments or additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar will ask the Minister of the Environment and Space of Juret Lebnu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u279	Thank you, Chairman. Clean drinking water and the right to clean drinking water have been entered into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the previous term, a constitutional category to be protected. As such, you too are likely to be bound, Mr Minister, not only as Ljubljana – if I am not mistaken, you are born in Ljubljana – but also as a decision-maker who can or also influence the quality of water in Slovenia and also in Ljubljana. In Ljubljana, a project is under way to build sewer water across the water protection area. Next thing you know, at the declaration level, I'm interested in: Do you, as Minister of Environment and Space, support the installation of sewerage over a clean drinking water reservoir? A very simple answer. What can and will you do as a minister to maintain clean drinking water? Among other things, the water we drink in the National Assembly, which you drink at the Ministry you drink at home. One very simple thing is why I ask this in the context of the questions sent. Alpe Adria Green has prepared a rather extensive analysis of the construction of channel C0 through a aquifer in Ljubljana, which supplies 300,000 people. Among other things, I quote: “The threat of contamination of aquifers from channel C0 is objectively present. The damage to the C0 channel and the leaking of hazardous wastewater into the aquifer would weaken its water treatment function from the Sava River. Ljubljana could lose this irreplaceable water source and lose drinking water.” I want to know: What will you do as the minister who is first responsible for this as a man in the executive branch when you were here at the time when the right to clean drinking water was adopted in the Constitution to protect clean drinking water in a particular case and also in general?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u281	Thank you, honourable Member Logar, for this matter. The answer is no; neither the Ministry nor I support the construction of sewers in protected water protection areas without the necessary water consent and otherwise as projects are prepared. Let me explain. As you yourself said, in 2016 the right to drinking water was entered in the Slovenian Constitution. With this record in the constitution, we were plowing the ice in Europe and the world at that time. The Constitution also provides that water resources are public good and serve the priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households. What is even more crucial and also our legislation in this area is clear – the aspect of sustainability and environmental protection and water management is already directly embedded in the applicable environmental and water legislation. For example, the Water Act provides that any intervention into a space that may have a permanent or temporary impact on the water regime or water condition may be carried out only on the basis of water consent or water opinion. This is the first security guard that applies to sewer water as well. The other fuse is the identification of water protection areas. Years ago, in order to protect Slovenian water, the State established water protection areas. Even in this case, which we are talking about now, the construction of wastewater pipelines in these water protection areas is permitted if such and such project solutions are taken into account. The third protector is applicable environmental legislation, more specifically the Regulation on the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water. This provides that in agglomerations and areas outside the agglomeration limit an appropriate method of decommissioning and treatment of municipal waste water should be provided. I would also point out that, according to the characteristics of a specific area, a specific provision on the water protection area and the water protection regime may lay down stricter conditions than those laid down in the Regulation on the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water, which is our fourth custodian. Let me finish. Channeling water in water protection areas shall not be permitted unless water consent is obtained and the correct project solutions are obtained for implementation in the area. When the water consent is obtained, there are other key fuses to be really careful in the water protection area how our Slovenian water is protected. In the case at hand, I can tell you that we've received some reports from the field. The tour was done, the ditches were buried. Since much of this project was financed from European resources, we also asked the Ministry for project documentation. The project documentation will be reviewed. And even at the ends where the incorrect execution was reported, the matter will be considered. If the matter is not made by a project for which European funds are obtained, the matter will need to be rectified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u283	Thank you, Chairman. Your predecessor was looking away when this project was being done. She didn't do anything. The building permit was, I can tell, acquired by fraud. You probably know that because you've probably seen this documentation. You have now said quite generally, but the situation is much more serious than perhaps on the basis of today's implementation someone can conclude. As you know, the original building permit from 2014 was issued as a non-requisitive facility, thus ensuring that no environmental impact assessment was carried out. Imagine, build sewerage across the water protection area, and the administrative unit that issues the building permit does not require an environmental impact assessment. Also with the second building permit, where it was then decided to be a demanding building, all the other conditions remained the same. You know that, you've probably already looked at this documentation. And everything that has been done so far is in conflict with the construction of a demanding facility and the assessment of environmental impacts in the water protection area. You said a stricter condition than the four listed above could also be required. My very simple question is: Because it's a aquifer for Ljubljana, for 300,000 people, for your drinking water, will you be even stricter? Not only did you examine what was wrong; because today I will tell you that it is wrong because the route is wrong because there are also procedural errors in this work. Are you personally going to stand up as Minister, given that your government has adopted the right to clean drinking water in the Constitution, given that it belongs to your department? Will you personally review this project if the documentation is in line with the requirements and if all the four conditions mentioned above are met to allow such construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u285	Thanks for the extra question. I apologize, I think neither I nor you have the right professional opinions so that we can review the entire project documentation and tell you what is right or wrong in the end. However, I told you because a large part of this project is financed from European funds, my colleagues at the Ministry, who are familiar with it, have already asked Voko for the delivery of project documentation. We will see if this project documentation for which a building permit has been issued means that consent has also been obtained and so on, in accordance with what has been done on the ground. What has not been done on the ground, we will demand that it be returned; or we will not issue letters to draw up European funds. I'm aware of that. No matter who; every project has to be taken seriously. And I don't know why things weren't done in this case either. We've already responded, we've been in the field, we've responded to the initiatives of the people on the ground. The documentation is being reviewed and we will respond to this if something has not been done as it was in the projects. If we don't ask for it, the commission will ask for it when it controls the project when it says what you did – you report something else and now we have a problem. I'm aware. My colleagues who have the right expertise will look into the matter and then tell you how to proceed. However, as far as decisions are concerned, we also know that we have an inspection that will have to respond properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor to request a procedural motion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u287	Thank you, Chairman. I appreciate the minister's involvement. I also see that it does not oppose the debate on this subject. As this is a very important issue to which many organisations are identified and which is ultimately touching all of us who drink pure drinking water, I propose that the debate be held at one of the next meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, in the framework of the votes. The next is Jean Mahnič, who will ask the Minister of Defence Karl Erjavac a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u289	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! It's been a hundred days since you took over the Department of Defense. You're not there for the first time, you were there during the first Janša government. I believe it's just right these hundred days that you're familiar with the current situation. I believe you've compared the situation since you left the Ministry in 2008 and the situation now that you've arrived. And I believe you're appalled at what you see there. At this time nothing has happened yet; except for the replacement of the Chief of Security Intelligence, a few promotions and the replacement of the Chief General of the Slovenian Armed Forces, General Gedder, whom I will not ask here today, because I have written a written question to that effect. It was also important that you somehow froze or stopped for such or other reasons buying 8x8 bikes to build the first medium battalion battle group, which Slovenia would have to achieve by 2022 if we wanted to pursue the objectives of capacity in the current period. Mr. Secretary, my question is: What is your vision of the development and equipment of the Slovenian Army? When can we expect 4x4 Oshkosh armor to be delivered? When can we expect vehicles 8x8 to be delivered to transport infantry, which will be the core of the middle battalion battle group? What about buying car hoods that we also need for the middle battalion fighting group? Are you planning in the White Paper on Defence and then in documents to be accepted with a long-term and medium-term plan for the development of the Slovenian Army and equipment, the number currently recorded, that is 8,000 permanent members and 2,000 members of the professional reserve, to reduce in such a way that you can say that there is no longer a problem? Do you intend to reduce the permanent composition number to 6,000 members and members and then you will be able to say that we have 6 thousand 650, which means that the Slovenian Army and its troops are complete according to the documents? Will you instruct the new Chief of Staff to change the criteria or methods of assessment of the Slovenian Armed Forces so that perhaps next year the assessment will not be improved; but for 2020, we can expect that, on the basis of new criteria that will distort the real picture, the Slovenian Armed Forces will be positively assessed for action in peace and for example in war?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u291	Say good-bye to everyone again! Thank you so much for the questions. I must say that these are very complex questions, and I will probably be difficult to answer in these three minutes and in the next answer. I agree with your finding that the financial and economic crisis has seriously affected the defence system. I think this is the budget item where the most money was taken. It is no wonder, therefore, that there has not actually been any greater investment in the Slovenian Army in the last ten years. It is also true that due to the poor conditions of the time, due to the ZUJF and other measures, wages in the Slovenian military have fallen and, in particular, the most affected are soldiers. That is also why we face human resources malnutrition all the time. I must say that after three months I find that the situation is worse than I thought, especially if I compare this situation with 2004-2008. Today, for example, we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the First Brigade of the Slovenian Army. You attended this ceremony. All the military equipment with the first brigade was also available. However, I must say that this is actually the pillar of the Slovenian Army, represented by the First Brigade. You may have seen that this is equipment which has now become obsolete, which is mainly equipment purchased under the 2004-2008 mandate. This indicates that a great deal of effort will have to be made mainly in the acquisition of personnel – so I also decided to set up a project group, which will be composed not only of experts within the Ministry of Defence, but also outside the Ministry. Because here, I think, we have to go into attracting in this profession also with more modern methods. More human resources marketing will be needed and, of course, more resources will have to be invested in the promotion of the Slovenian Armed Forces alone, as well as more resources to obtain new staff. In any case, the material situation will need to be improved, because otherwise we will not achieve the perfection of the Slovenian Army. You asked me if we were going to change the numbers for 8,000 permanent units and 2,000 contractual reserves. At this point, I cannot give you this answer because the White Paper will answer these questions. Why did I decide to prepare a white book? Because we have a series of open questions. In particular, the main question is what is the concept of ensuring national security we want. Here we know that we also have debates in this National Assembly, when some believe that we do not really need the Slovenian Armed Forces to invest every investment in the defence system, in the Slovenian Army is tossing money away. That is why I think it is right to draw up a white book that will first have to answer what are the specific threats that threaten our citizens. One of the threats is that the Slovenian Armed Forces must ensure the defence of the country at any time, while the other threats are also in the area of so-called civil protection. We see that the greatest damage is caused by natural disasters, floods, reptiles, glands and so on, and we need to connect these capacities here. The White Paper must also answer the question of what Slovenian army we want, which tribes, if I may say so, we will develop. In any way, the middle battalion group is a commitment that also stems from the alliance. However, I would like to make it very clear that we are not developing or modernising the Slovenian Armed Forces because of NATO or because of the European Union. We know that we are now talking about the defence and the European Union's troops, but in particular we need to develop and modernise the Slovenian Army for our own security. I'm sure you'll give me a supplementary question, and I'll continue my answer, because it's impossible to tell in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u293	Thank you. Thank you, too, Minister, for the point that I will also give you a procedural proposal to hold a debate, because, as you yourself said, five minutes plus three minutes is too short to discuss this and if the Members will also be able to hold a broader debate, or, in any event, they may call, if they refuse, a meeting of the Defence Committee. You also know, Mr Minister, that we have been most active in our party in the previous mandate on the situation in the Slovenian Army. We haven't called a meeting yet. Three months have passed. We will give you three, four months to see what will actually happen to the budget, your strategy, some concrete measures, and then you can expect the policy and engagement of our party, or on my part, in the same way that it was with Minister Katič if, of course, there will be no situation that will improve. Just what you said; yes, today we were both there, we met with the equipment, and unfortunately we both found that virtually some last mention was worth buying, including for JRCBO, from the time of Janša's first government when you were Minister. In the meantime, we watched a series of spikes that, within a year, have two lifetimes. We've been looking at the needles we've had since our independence, which means that our air defences are up to a maximum of 6-7 kilometers above sea level. We've seen static hoodies that can be targets and unfortunately we can't use them for some serious fighting and some personal equipment. So I am, Minister, especially interested – you yourself said what it would take: How do you plan to attract new personnel to the Slovenian Army? Above all, I am interested in the defence budget that we are promising. I really want 1.1% of GDP for next year, not until 2023. Are you going to be in the next year and in which direction will you arrange the file, as far as the military is concerned, pay and benefit?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u295	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that I expect that we will have discussions on the White Paper, which is supposed to be prepared sometime in late January, early February, on the Defence Committee, because this is first of all some professional, conceptual issues. I think that those who are members of the Defence Committee are the right addressees to hold a broad debate on what we want the Slovenian Army and what we really need for our effective defence and, in particular, to meet all the security challenges. We know that the international situation is quite sensitive, I will not talk about the Western Balkans, what is going on, the Ukrainian crisis, cyber attacks, hybrid threats, terrorism – we have recently witnessed. That's how this is about one serious debate. As far as the budget is concerned, I think that, even today, the President of the Government, when he answered the questions, said that it had been given to the Secretary-General of NATO that we would reach 1.5% by 2024, although of course the commitment was 2%. I estimate that this gradual increase in defence spending will also improve the relationship that is currently in place. I have to say that practically 80% of the defence budget at this point is just pay and the rest is material costs, and I think 2 to 3% are investment. According to modern military standards, this ratio should be 50 per cent for salaries, 30% for material costs and 20% for investments. For this reason, we need to increase resources in the defence system so that this share will be improved, because all reductions have been made primarily at the expense of investments and material costs. At material costs, however, you need to know that there are also trainings, then military exercises, which each army must carry out. As far as methodology is concerned, we will not change it in order to give the Slovenian Army a positive assessment. We must do everything that the Slovenian Army will do when it comes to war readiness, that is, when the war situation comes, that it is fully prepared. As far as the situation is concerned in a peaceful period, here the Slovenian Army has good grades. I wish there was no war and that the final capabilities of the Slovenian Army should never have to be achieved in the event of war.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr. Mahnic, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u297	I propose that the debate be held on my question of the delegation and on those which we have opened with the Minister. Not that we need a full formation when there is a war, but we also need in peace the 100% perfection of our units in order to carry out all the tasks laid down by law. As far as the white book is concerned, or the number 8,000, 2 000; it is true that – what I know – some number will come out, but surely you as a minister can give some guidance, what you want the white book to say or not the last thing the government wants. Before you said - I strongly agree with you - that there is some wrong opinion that we need an army to connect NATO. We need an army for us. I told you at the time, Minister, to force all the pirates from Morse and the Slovenian Army, because they are obviously incompetent, because the Levica Party is actually able to convince a good part of Slovenian citizens that we are building an army for the purposes of NATO, and the entire machinery with Morse and the Slovenian Army at the helm obviously cannot find an answer or find a suitable communication strategy with the Slovenian public, so that this opinion, that then some non-digestion and that it is armed with me for the needs of NATO, would change. Until the Slovenian Army and the Ministry succeed in this area, then those who convince the public that we are not doing this for our own defence will be successful, but that we need it for the sake of the alliance. The Slovenian public now thinks that this Oshkosh is something new, that it has not been tested anywhere, but in fact it is one of the best 4x4 vehicles that the American army has tried in practice and the matter is working. But if you go to ask someone, XY, now in front of Parliament, he'll say that we're buying this: for the first time, for NATO, we're buying, for the second time, useless armor and for the third time, a matter that will be substantially overpaid. But they should be congratulated — right? Because they can do it. In this particular case, however, the government has failed, or in this particular case, the communication service, the Ministry of Finance and the Slovenian Armed Forces, in failing to implement the communication strategy in such a way that the Slovenian public can see what the actual needs of our country are for our own defence. Because it is logical to first define our own needs, to find answers to our questions, and then, of course, to offer them to the Alliance. I really hope that this middle battalion fighting group will be built as soon as possible and that this rash will stop. You'll have to say something about pay, too. The last time we were at the Ministry, in recent years, on the fact that we have practically one battalion of fewer soldiers, and the wage has risen by 30 million euros, there has been no answer how this can be done. For this reason, I propose that the debate be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, in the framework of the votes. The next one has the word Samo Bevk, who will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u299	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! A respected choir! The procedure for adopting the State Spatial Plan for State Road Cerkno-Hotavlje started in 2006. The proposal for the most appropriate variant, the road link between Cerknim and Hotavljavi, North 2, was considered and confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in June 2010, but unfortunately the municipality of Gorenje vas-Poljane disagreed with this route. A field survey was carried out in June 2011, and the State Transport Committee discussed this in September of the same year. Unfortunately, all these meetings did not accelerate the preparation of the State Spatial Plan. Even more, just before the end of the government of Janez Janša, the procedure was surprisingly stopped at the 55th meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 19 March 2013. The modest explanation showed that the Government was to decide on this because of the high investment value, the poor transport and economic acceptability of the proposed variant, and in particular because of the opposition of the municipality of Gorenje Vas-Poljane. More than professionally, this decision was supported by political arguments, so at the end of April 2013 I put in the parliamentary procedure the new government's parliamentary initiative, which you led at the time, to continue optimizing the North 1 and North 2 or the new road link between the Cerkni and Hotavlja. Indeed, following the suspension of the project in August of the same year, a new study of variants was launched with the aim of updating the road link between Soča and Gorenjska or central Slovenia as one of the key projects on the fourth development axis. In response by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to my question on 11 September 2018, it was said that the chosen route will also be presented to the municipalities of Cerkno and Gorenje Vas. I'm asking you: Can you introduce, Madam Minister, how are the preparations and placement of the new road link between Cerknim and Hotavljavi and the timetable for its construction? I'm also interested in: Have you presented a new route to the congregations? The Minister of Mags. Alenki Bratušek, thank you very much for her answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u301	Thank you very much. As you said, Your Honour, 11. 9. 2018 The government has indeed given you a very detailed answer to the same questions as you are asking today. That's how my answer will be, I'll say, a little repeat with what you got written down. Among other things, the response you have already received explains that the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate in 2017 has re-approached the examination of all the alternatives that have been studied and that the results are not significantly different from those of previous years, despite the correction of certain parts of the route. You have also been informed that engineering geological mapping has been ordered for the southern variants that mainly run along the corridor of the existing road due to very poor geological conditions and that a study of variants in preparation of the State Spatial Plan will continue to be developed after mapping. The results of the mapping shall require further verification of the conceptual design of the envisaged measures in the Kladja area, in particular the verification of the construction of buildings such as walls, viaducts, bridges and the like. The additional measures required may have a significant impact on the investment assessment of the variants studied, as the costs of the southern variants already known range from EUR 100 to 120 million and the northern costs range from EUR 160 to 200 million. Due to that verification, the presentation of the results of the completed concept by the municipalities of Cerkno and Gorenje Vas, which was scheduled for the end of 2018, was carried over for approximately two months. In doing so, I would like to point out that this is a presentation of an ideal design that serves as one of the professional bases for the design of the proposal as the most appropriate variant. However, the preparation of the construction deadline will, of course, be possible only after the completion of the spatial placement procedure, i.e. after the adoption of the State Spatial Plan. The Framework Plan, which is also presented in the above-mentioned response by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is two and a half years to prepare a study of variants with a proposal for the most appropriate variant and reception in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A further two and a half years will be necessary for the preparation and adoption of the State Spatial Plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Member Bevk alone will make a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u303	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I thank the Minister for her answer. I hope that in two months' time the competent authority, or probably the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate, will present this plan to both municipalities, or this idea of this new link, which is one of the key projects on the path of the fourth development axis. In fact, why is this road connection so important? It is not just this new link and a new road, it is also an existing state road. In fact, between this year's one-month road closure between Idrija and Godovic, traffic on the state road was envisaged for the largest trucks – listen carefully – Logatec, Nova Gorica, Tolmin, Idrija, which extended traffic flows by 6 hours or 280 kilometers. As an alternative, however, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure for the Logatec-Idrija route, which is 27 kilometres or 40 minutes’ drive, also proposed transport across Kladje on the state road Cerkno-Hotavlje, but under special conditions, at a certain time interval and alternately. The fact is that the existing state road between Cerknim and Hotavljavi is too narrow and too dangerous and does not allow for the meeting of the biggest trucks as well as buses. The modernisation of the Cerkno-Hotavlje road is therefore necessary in addition to the modernisation of the Želan-Idrija-Logatec road. Since the total state road closure between Idrija and Godovic is again promising in 2019, I am interested in: What will you do to ensure that you no longer need 280 kilometers of long transport across Nova Gorica and Tolmin to Idria? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u305	I'm a minister, but I'm not a traffic expert enough to allow myself to determine where the operations can take place. I am aware that there are problems and problems in all roadblocks, all of which are complete. However, I hope that, together, we are aware that if prison is needed for security reasons, so that work can be done as it should be done, it is probably right that it is carried out in the way that those responsible for investment are proposing. As I said in my reply, I have no reason to doubt that in two months or at least two months this presentation will be made to the congregations. That's what I can tell you right now. And once again, as far as road closure is concerned. There is a lot of dissatisfaction, but at the end of this investment there is so much more satisfaction, because the road is better and especially safer. I believe that in your case, it will end this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u306	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The first is Mr Jan Mahnic, who will raise a question to the Minister for the Environment and Space of Juret Lebnu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u307	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! My question concerns the stupidity committed by the Administrative Court when it prohibited the shooting of wolves for the next period, on the grounds that there was no justification for the social acceptability of their shooting. I'm also a hunter and I know the subject very well. The wolf and I have been facing more and more in recent years. As far as seizures are concerned from 2010 to this year, we can see that the withdrawal, and especially the shooting itself, is decreasing. If 11 wolves were thus shot in 2012, they were 6 in 2017 and no in 2016. As far as the damage is concerned, they did it for 135 thousand in 2014, for 92 thousand in 2015, for 65 thousand in 2016 and for 155 thousand in 2017. More and more unjustly dissatisfied farmers, as well as the Hunting Union, are warning of the damage the wolf is doing after the game. My colleagues keep reminding me that the wolf's trail takes about one piece of deer to night. Currently, according to all projections and based on studies estimates, there are 11 wolf tracks in Slovenia. Professional services have prepared, I can say, an excellent document with all the research, with all the justifications addressed to the Expert Opinion on the Taking of Large Beasts from 1 October 2018 to 30. In September 2019, where 11 wolves are proposed to be shot, they propose to shoot one wolf out of each troupe with all the guards, such as that only one wolf can fall in a particular hunting area with a special purpose, that if 45 % of the wolves fall from the age class two plus, this shot can be stopped immediately. Then to stop when more than 50% of the quota falls, and this is represented by breeding females. The shelling of the wolf must also not be carried out in three stages: in the mating phase, in the hatching phase and in the socialisation or education phase. Dear Mr. Secretary! On the basis of all this, I am interested in: What will you do in the next complaint filed by naturalists, the Constitutional Court or the Administrative Court to impose on the expert plans and arguments that the shooting of wolves in Slovenia is more than necessary?
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u309	Mr Mahnic, thank you for this question. In the past, I have repeatedly disagreed with the decision of the courts, but I have always respected them. That's what happened this time. The administrative court was clear, so this year the government did not comply with the naturalists. Let me give you a glimpse of this question that you can't actually win. You've got one opposite, the other you've got the other. The public is diametrically divided on this issue. On the one hand, there are eternal advocates of this species, and on the other hand the professional public and, of course, farmers and local communities, who are seeking to better regulate population numbers, as you have already mentioned. For me, the truth is somewhere in between. The wolf has been protected in Slovenia since the late 1970s. It is quite clear that intervention into the population is possible only exceptionally. Exceptions are provided for in the Regulation on protected species of wild animals. There are exceptions among the reasons. For exceptions: preventing serious harm, ensuring human health and safety, regulating population numbers and so on. At the Ministry, we take our role in removing these noble protected animals extremely seriously. Since I rarely have the opportunity to explain how things are going procedurally, allow me, Mr Mahnic, to take this opportunity for a brief explanation. The Slovenian Institute of Forests gives an expert opinion on the withdrawal, gives us its comments and directions to the Department of Nature Protection. It is then decided by the Expert Commission for the Management of Large Animals, composed of a wide range of stakeholders. The Ministry shall then invite all interested public to submit comments and comments on the proposal and shall, within the deadline for the public hearing of the proposal, examine in detail all comments received and shall be determined to them after consultation with the Expert Committee on the Management of Large Animals. The final well-founded proposal takes large beasts from the nature of the Ministry of the Environment and mediates the adoption of the Government. In 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Space proposed the removal of 11 wolves. We also took into account the fact that due to the good reproductive capacity of wolves and the favourable natural conditions in Slovenia, a trend in the expansion of the population area is expected, in particular against the Alps. In September 2018, as you have already established, the Administrative Court also issued a judgment concerning the 2018 regulation. While the Court has recognised social acceptance as a possible reason to intervene in the population, the Court considers that the decision to intervene in the protected species is not precisely and adequately justified, since the defendant did not give sufficient reasons in the grounds for the contested legal act. On the basis of this and of all the facts, the Government has adopted a withdrawal regulation only for the bear and not for the wolf, because we respect the court's decision consistently. However, I agree with you, we must find a balance as much as we are against the wolf, even for the wolves, and we will have to repeat the exercise at the Ministry in order to regulate this area as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Ambassador Jan Mahnic will present a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u311	Fine, Minister, that the government respects the judgment of the courts, only if it does so consistently, in all cases, but not only selectively. I am speaking, of course, of the case of the Constitutional Court's judgment concerning Zofvi. You have said well; we have a public that advocates the shooting of wolves, and a public that opposes it, with something else to add. The public that opposes this is a public that does not actually meet them, except in an animal garden, when someone who does not see a wolf in nature takes their children, and they say that they are beautiful puppies. Then you have a public on the other side, which encounters the wolf; hunters, foresters, farmers, in short, people who do not live in urban centres, people who live in the countryside. And look, the least harm is when wolves are currently attacking mainly deer and deer — but what is already going on? In the area where the wolf is constantly present, the deer is virtually gone. Hunting families that had 50, 60, 70 pieces of deer a year to be taken away may now have only 5 more pieces. Why? Because the wolf is here! When there's no more shit in there, it's gone when there's no more deer, it's going to happen – what? The wolf is not a vegetable eater and then, of course, comes to the village, the settlements, when he starts attacking the cattle, especially here are the calves when he starts attacking the horses, the sheep, more often than they will, and then there will be a problem. God forbid he would attack any man, children, when they go to school, through the woods and so on. And then the ones who called the hunters today, the most biting naturalists, will call the government, and you'll do what you can to make sure that my baby doesn't get hurt. So my question, Minister: What are your plans for the future? You confirmed the shooting of a bear, you followed a recommendation, but in case there's no legal shooting of a wolf, unfortunately there'll be an illegal one.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Leben, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u313	I agree with you, so I've already said that we're going to have to rehearsing at the Ministry, and it's better to write things up and go into it like a bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Member Jan Mahnic has a request for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u315	Thank you, Vice President. I propose that a debate be held on the question referred to in this article, because this is clearly the case – under this document is signed by the Slovenian Institute for the Forests – that we have the only problem that we have not prepared an appropriate explanation. But the explanation for shooting a bear is in the same document as the explanation for shooting a wolf. It is also interesting that the body that we consider to be the most rigorous, nature - conservation agency — what did they write? The removal of wolves is possible because, for the first time, it is acceptable for the purpose of selective and limited removal of animals from nature under strictly controlled conditions and in a limited number ensuring the preservation of the social variability of the wolf. Another time. Other options exist, but they are not sufficient. And the third time. The shooting will not endanger the welfare of the population. In this document, in my opinion, there was an explanation of the law. Why the shot? Sustainable discharge is not contrary to efforts to preserve the wolf population in the long term if it is professionally designed. All strategies have been taken into account in the preparation: the shooting does not reach the amount that would endanger the population; it is proposed to take one specimen onto the trail – that is, about 11 wolves; there is no shooting at the time of mating, breeding and training. A complete interruption, when two plus shots are fired, means two years and more of the wolves reach 45 percent of the total shot – it is said that if 5 wolves fall in this age class, then they will not be taken away 11. It is necessary to maintain the favourable status of the population, to prevent illegal shooting, and in particular to prevent conflicts between the wolf and the local population. What did we do all the time? We had a certain amount of bears for shooting based on estimates from 20 years ago when they said there were between 350 and 400 bears in Slovenia. Based on that, 120 were fired there. The new findings made by independent experts have shown what? Despite the shooting of such a number of bears, assuming that the population was 350 to 400, we have today received official information that we have between 750 and 800 bears in Slovenia. Some say that the solution is sterilization, capture or imprisonment somewhere in Russia, as some have suggested here, but it is ineffective, unethical, uncontrollable and, above all, not selective. The shooting, carefully planned, legal, on the basis of clear criteria, based on territorial placement, based on the fact that we have 70 wolves in a certain age class, and the fact that they are proposed 11 for firing, is the only guarantee that we will be able to interact with the wolf so that there will be no conflicts on one side of the animals in Slovenia and on the other side of the local population. I therefore propose that the debate be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, in the framework of the votes. The following will raise the oral question of Mr Željko Cigler, Minister of Infrastructure of Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u317	Your Honor, Madam Secretary! From the transport model developed by PNZ in 2016 as part of the development of the integrated transport strategy of the Municipality of Celje, this is the Association for the Future, it is clear that the burden of the northern city invasion, Maribor Road, is already critical in Celje. A parallel traffic link must be sought immediately in the north-south direction. The maximum load of roads and the environment with aerosols and noise is the traffic load of freight transit in the direction of the third development axis. To describe literally, the Maribor road, which continues southward in Ashkercheva and 14th Street, represents a central road in the direction of the third development axis, as I said. The route of this development axis now runs directly through the densely populated city centre of Celje, where there are apartments, schools, kindergartens, medical clinics along the road. It is a state road through a city where traffic is especially concentrated at morning and afternoon traffic peaks. More than 30,000 vehicles are transported daily, in particular freight vehicles that cause serious pollution, noise, shaking of houses and endangering the traffic safety of citizens. If we redirect this transit to a parallel road, we can save a good part of Celje's pollution, especially as I said before, with dust particles 2.5 which are particularly aggressive and directly enter the blood and cause heart disease and blood vessels and are also cancerous. In particular, the daily concentrated flow of diesel vehicles is harmful to health as Celje is classified as less pervasive areas in Slovenia, and these exhausts remain in short. Madam Minister, I ask: When and how will transit traffic on the third development axis be withdrawn from Celje and arranged on the appropriate bypass of Celje? And that's what I'd like to point out. Silnet's 15. 12. According to this month, it has been announced that, on the basis of the judgment of the European Court of Madrid, Paris and Brussels, the traffic of diesel vehicles through these cities is likely to be prohibited. In fact, all diesel vehicles which do not meet the Euro 69M emission standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Alenka Bratusek, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Dear Member! I fully agree with you that this is one of the more pressing road problems in our country. I can assure you that, at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we are putting a great deal of emphasis on traffic management, with which certain road users are redirected to more technically appropriate infrastructure, as I am aware that this reduces the saturation and overburden of the urban network and protects the living environment from noise and, more importantly, other emissions resulting from heavy freight. The fact is that the city of Celje is one of the rare cities in the country, which has all the transit traffic in the north-south direction driven through, so to speak, an old city core. The unloading of the Maribor Road in the Heavy Truck Transport Goal is conditioned by the upgrading or construction of the rolling roads represented by the planned celery ipsilon. This ipsilon consists of the western leg from Lopata and Levec to Tremeri and the eastern leg from Ljubecna and Slanc to Zagrada and Tremerij. The mobile cell ipsilon is included in the project of the middle part of the third development axis. It follows from the updated study of variants of this project that they have an essential priority in this project to build a section between Medlog and Tremerje on the west leg and on the east leg to build a road between Tehar and Tremerij, which unloads the city centre of freight vehicles and adequately connects the industrial zone Celje and the production of Stor. In view of the fact that the project of the middle part of the third development axis, which plans to modernise the road link from Celje to New Town, has been sufficiently time-consuming, a decision was taken with the Municipality of Celje in September of this year to take a joint approach to the implementation of the Eastern Railway Project. For the purposes of this project, the municipality has already prepared project documentation for part of the route and an ideal design for tunnel under the Zavodenj hill. The route of this road will connect two state roads, G15 and G2-107, and allow transit from the highway, connection Celje - east in the direction of the Wall Bridge. The route of this road also coincides approximately with the route of the east connecting road from the third development axis. The preparation of the basic investment documentation, the so-called DIP, is under way to include the project in the development programmes plan or the budget of the country from which resources will be provided for the production of the professional basis necessary for the preparation of the spatial act. The spatial placement process will be led by the Municipality of Celje. We will be able to talk about the exact timing of the construction of this carousel or to do so after the completion of the spatial placement process.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u320	Thank you very much. The following will raise an oral question from Ambassador Natasa Sukič, Minister of Environment and Space Juret Lebnu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u321	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Then let's go from the wolves to the bears. On 26 November or four days after the government's green light for the removal of 200 bears from nature, Divača killed a five-year-old bear with a research collar under the observation of Udine University. He was shot by a Slovenian hunter. Eliseo’s research bear has risen several times over 2,000 feet [2,100 m] above sea level. During 17 months he made more than 2 000 750 kilometers of journeys, sailed Lake Cavazzo five times, crossed the highway several times, and survived a train collision in Slovenia. Not even a meeting with a hunter. His shooting in Italy is a strong reflection, even to Parliament. It's also right for our national council to hear it. Despite public protests on 22 November, the government adopted a decree stipulating the withdrawal of 200 bears by September 2019, of which 175 were fired. Article 14 of the Nature Conservation Act prohibits animals from killing on purpose for no valid reason. Killing is justified only if it has a beneficial effect and is socially acceptable. The correlation between shooting and social acceptability is not really investigated. There is also no evidence in the explanation that the planned shooting would have a beneficial effect. What can be the beneficial effect of killing severely protected animals? Each year, the state determines the removal of a large number of bears, but the situation in the field of damage and conflict has essentially changed nothing. The decree is based on the expert opinion of the Institute for Forests and the Institute for Nature Protection, the first of which can also be in conflict of interest, as it gives an opinion in an area which is at the same time a source of income. At the same time, the expert opinion of NGOs acting in the public interest for animal welfare is not taken into account. Nor are petitions made by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, where they require the cessation of the shooting and the implementation of measures for the benefit of the brown bear. Where is the actual argument to increase the shooting of a bear by 68 more than last year? Where is the border that ensures the stability of the population? Why is non-governmental organisations with a public interest in this area not involved in co-forming policies in this case? So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u323	Thank you, Member Sukich. Well, now we're there; one and the other, and I have to be in the middle of how we balance things out. Brown bear is a protected species in Slovenia. It is quite clear that intervention into the population is possible only exceptionally. As I mentioned earlier, the Regulation on protected species of wild animals lays down these exceptions, which are to prevent serious harm, to ensure human health and safety. Now I'm going to briefly download the system that I mentioned earlier. The Institute for Forests, as already mentioned, gives an expert opinion, the Institute for the Protection of Nature makes comments, and then the expert committee on the management of animals decides on the matter. Here I would not agree with you that this is a conflict of interest, because there are also the Department of Nature Protection, ILO, Arso, Faculty of Biotech, Department of Biology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, so I think there are enough voices in there to find balance. Following this difficult and inclusive procedure, the Ministry of Environment and Space provided for the withdrawal of 200 bears by 30 September 2019, 175 in shooting off plus 25 projected losses, the amount of the expected annual increase. I can say two things: with NGOs, the matter has been coordinated, including with regard to implementing regulations, and this will also be discussed at the next meetings of my world with NGOs that I have already started working with. As I said before, this figure is based on an expert assessment and facts; in December 2017 the published results – estimated number of brown bear populations in Slovenia with molecular genetics method – show that the bear population in Slovenia increased by 41% in the last ten years and that at the end of 2015 it was between 545 and 655 animals at a 95% confidence interval. This was also followed by the opinion of the profession, which was taken into account in determining the number, but the Government, of course, followed the ILO opinion. In this case, even if I get to know a little about hunting, identification could be different if it was a bear for research purposes. I don't know the case, but I am the one who has to take care of the balance between farmers, those who manage economic activity, and those who want to protect nature. I don't think we should do some artificial division, but we should sit together – yes, with NGOs as we are – and find some solution so that one thing and the other can be satisfied in a certain subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Ambassador Natasa Sukič has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u325	Thank you very much. See, the condition for firing is among other things not to harm the welfare of the population. The profession points to the need for a restriction on feeding, which effectively limits fertility. Research into bear biology shows that fertility depends very much on the amount of food. For example, Italy, France and Spain do not control bears, nor do they fire. Therefore, the control of the birth of animals is important among the preventive measures. Nature contains mechanisms by which it can regulate natural balance, even if it is an urban area, proof is the canton of Geneva, where hunting was banned long ago in 1974. The envisaged shooting of 175 bears will damage the numerical and qualitative structure of the species, while at the same time it will have a very negative impact on the ecosystem of which this protected species is part. With the aim of achieving the financial benefit of catching bears, population growth and a larger number of populations are deliberately allowed, thereby ensuring the right to a greater discharge. This is where the bear feeds. The larger diversion is also the result of subsidies, rather than abolishing them and giving them the opportunity to redirect to non-conflict activities and compensation policies. So why don't you think about untapped forms of population management, such as the capture of live bears and resettlement, the management of landfills of waste, the deterrence of bears from settlements, proper feeding, protection fences and so on? Is it, then, the interest of the hunting and farming lobbies to do so in the background? And another piece of information. We are at the world summit according to the data of the Biotechnical Faculty after the shooting of bears in the world; so the first in the world, we shoot the most bears with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u327	As I have already mentioned, it is a very ungrateful topic, which causes a lot of unrest in the public, not only in Slovenia, but also in France, where we tried to move two bears by agreement between governments, but there was so much resistance that the roads were closed down and there was a special action that they moved one bear in the middle of the night. I have to tell you, it's my job to listen and respect the profession. The company in Slovenia participates. Yes, of course! In the following year, when we go to the Environmental Protection Act, when we go to the Nature Protection Act, of course, we will also talk to the NGO Council about whether there are additional solutions, but for a balanced field between nature and those carrying out economic public service, I will follow the professions. And here I see no other solution than a number shot – a certain shot, I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u328	Thank you very much. The following will raise an oral question from Ambassador Violet Tomić, Minister of Culture Dejan Prešič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u329	Thank you very much, chairman. The Government shall meet at its meeting on 13. 11. 2018 redistribute resources within the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to allocate funds for the launch of the NEMO-HD satellite, developed by the Centre for the Excellence of Space, Science and Technology. It is an interactive satellite remote sensing mission with high precision that will allow you to capture multispectral images of the earth's surface and record HD video. Space-SI develops this satellite and the entire mission in cooperation with the Canadian Space Flight Laboratory Institute for Space Studies at the University of Toronto. At the same time, preparations have been under way since last year to launch the first European artistic satellite UmbOT MG. Slovenian post-gravity artists Dunja Zupančič, Miha Turšič and Dragan Zivadinov completed the first phase of the project to install an UmBOT MG artistic and scientific satellite, which will fly into space. In conclusion, the satellite from the Russian module of the international space station will be placed in orbit. The Umbout MG project extends the understanding of the universe through the culturalization of space and the cosmization of art. Supported by space science and technology, the artistic and scientific satellite would be the first of its kind in Europe – the first in the world was Japanese. From the point of view of the visibility of Slovenia, the combination of an artistic and scientific satellite would be more effective than just a scientific satellite, which, as it is understood, would serve to a greater extent only observation. With the launch of a scientific satellite, Slovenia is just one of 6,000 similar cases, and with an artistic satellite adding the artistic dimension of the culturalization of the universe, Slovenia would be the first in Europe and, of course, the second in the world. The question is why the government only supports the new project, the NEMO-HD satellite and not the artistic satellite. Why can't he see the possibility of merging both projects, because the creators of the UmbOT MG artistic satellite with the merger of both satellite projects see no problems. That's why I'm asking you: What is the purpose of supporting a new project without artistic and cultural dimensions and without cultural added value, and not an artistic project that would be the first in Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Mr. Prešiček, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u331	Mr President, thank you. Dear Members and honourable Members! Maybe I'll start when I first met at the last meeting in Vitanj with one of the Russian cosmonauts who was — I think — four times in space, spent, I think, 50 days at Peace Station. He told me a very interesting thing. He said that at the time when Mr Zivadinov started this project of the culturalization of the universe, we had the only space agency in the world that was made up of two parts. Usually, the space agency was made up of a technical-development unit, a department that, of course, developed the fact that missiles were flying. And no space agency had a cultural department. In Slovenia we had it and we were the first, we ignored it, certainly also because of the financial resources needed to do so. What do I mean by that? Yes, of course, the idea of a group of postgravity artists is valid. The Ministry of Culture supports this project, of course, because it is an art project, because it thinks of other aspects than just the technical ones that such satellites bring. The problem the Ministry of Culture has is that these are very expensive projects, that the Ministry of Culture is not already sufficient for all the legal obligations we have to our cultural institutions, both state and non-governmental, and we cannot afford such a project in the current financial situation. However, as Minister, I will certainly agree to meet with the Minister of Economy, Mr Restoration, to talk to him, to mention him, to ask what this would all mean, to try to make contact in order to be able to do so – I still think it is very interesting and certainly an idea that should be supported. Now it's hard, I don't have enough technical data to assess what this means for the current project we have, which is in the final phase. I think I'm supposed to go into space next year. The funding is provided for this project. As I say, I will take my stand, ask and report whether the next time we see each other or the next time you ask Parliament what is going on with this cultural project. I certainly thank you for the initiative and I will do the best I can to achieve this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u332	Thank you very much. The last on the list is Ambassador Miha Kordiš, who will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u333	Thank you for your word, chairman. Every year in autumn, we face delays at the Ministry of Labour or at social work centres, as these are usually overloaded with applications for annual rights because they are due to expire in autumn. This year's situation is particularly pressing. Applications remain unanswered for several months. They are parents who have been waiting since September for decisions on reduced payment of kindergartens and therefore some are now paying the full price without knowing whether they will receive these funds back or not. Then there are students here who don't have enough beds in college homes to stay with private people. These individuals, of course, beat them, but they don't know if they can actually afford it and so on. Parents with child supplements, which were last seen in August or September, are likely not to be reached by these children’s Christmas supplements, and we know that these children’s supplements are for the needs of a child, probably at this time of the year, for any Christmas gifts for children. According to the information we have in Levica, there were 6,000 outstanding applications in early September. In the first place, however, I received firsthand information that at the end of last week, those who submitted applications were also awaiting decisions in September. It even happens that the roles that came in October have not yet found their way into the system at all. The government is a general mess as a result of the reorganisation you inherited from the former masters of the Ministry of Labour. But it is not only the beneficiaries who have drawn this short; here we have the cadre, here we have employees who burn up in the workplace, work weekends, tear overtime, even those who have left their jobs, they said, I can't anymore, it's not going anymore. As it is said, all of this is due to the poor reorganisation they cooked in the Social Democrats, and then they left you a ministrand to clean it up. In the light of that, I'm curious: How many applications for individual rights – a child's allowance, a kindergarten subsidy, a state scholarship – are still pending? When are these applications expected to be resolved, and when will these rights be paid? How will the Ministry take action to relieve workers at social work centres and units? How will it ensure a level playing field in the different centres and when will the human resources sector be strengthened? And finally, under the line of some diagnostics: What was wrong with an organization that had made a serious, serious problem, that we were in this catastrophic situation at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u335	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. With regard to the question, I explain that the number of applications for the exercise of public funds rights is higher each year in August, September and October than in the other months. In these months, most applications for the right to a state scholarship are submitted because the school year or year of study is the beginning of the school year, and in September the first entry into kindergarten is due to a significant increase in applications for the exercise of the right to a reduced payment of the kindergarten programme. In particular, I stress that customer response also affects the duration of the proceedings; that certain evidence, such as evidence of income or property abroad, should also be attached to the determination of the actual situation, or that delays in the decision are linked to the waiting by the parties to continue the procedure. It is important to point out that the centres, as a rule, issue decisions within a statutory period of two months, and that families, which are also recipients of financial social assistance or social distress, have the advantage of resolving applications. This year, however, an upgrade of the information system was carried out in August for the adoption of the amendment to the Act on Scholarships. In the first week of October, the information system was closed due to the reorganisation of the centres. In order not to cause these delays to lead to the deprivation of beneficiaries, I set an additional deadline for the payment of the State grant in October, which means that grants were paid twice in October. We regularly monitor the work of the lagover centres on public funds rights. The centres have prepared plans for the correction of the arrears and regularly inform us of the rescue process. The Ministry was in regular contact with the V.D. Directors of all the centres all the time before and after the reorganisation. It follows from the reports received that applications for August and September are generally resolved. The reason for certain applications for this period, but not yet resolved, is usually because they are waiting for the additions to be made by the parties, such as proof of the level of income from abroad. However, I would like to answer your question more specifically, how the reorganisation itself has affected the backlogs. Certainly, the reorganisation was put in place, nicely put, at an awkward time; just at the time when the centres received the most role. The information system also did not work in the first part of October and it was not possible to access the Financial Administration for four days last week and therefore a number of backlogs had been accumulated. Most social work centres do not currently record backlogs. The largest centre is the centre of Ljubljana, and there are backlogs and this problem has been dealt with in such a way that I issued a decision on the transfer of territorial competence – as you know, the centres are subject to territorial jurisdiction according to permanent residence – so we looked at which social work centres are currently not recording the backlogs, and we transferred these applications to these CSD Ljubljana centres. This is how we count on all these backlogs to be saved as soon as possible. However, due to the loss of Furs’ resource in the previous week, there was also a delay in financial social assistance, for which an additional day of payment was ordered again in December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Ambassador Kordish will make a request to complete the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u337	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. However, I am interested in specific information: How many applications for individual rights – once again, according to the children's allowance, subsidies, kindergartens, state scholarships – how much of this remains unresolved? As far as territorial resolution or proper load allocation is concerned, you responded. I'm interested in this information: How quantitative is that? I'm also interested in: What does salvation mean as soon as possible? Because here we often talk about people who are in social distress about people who do not have a serious material position. Most of the students are hit very badly, not living in some luxury, including the recipients of children's allowances, those who are from lower income groups, are not the most handsomely reduced payment of kindergartens, and the lower income classes are those who draw here this short. That's why I want to know: When can we expect these roles to be resolved? And also: What will the ministry do to relieve these centers of stress, to train additional personnel and so on? You mentioned some plans to prepare to be implemented now – or how: What timeframes are we discussing here, and what extent of human resources reinforcements? How much do we talk about this? Because it's over, there's no way to get past the human resources. I'm still interested in a back-up check. You have received a call from the Association of Youth Friends of Mosta Polje, which says that you should prescribe a lump sum to be paid to the applicant if the CSD does not decide on his right within a reasonable time. Is this something you can see as a solution to compensation for those who have waited too long? As it is said, due to the drop in child support, children in some poorer families will not receive a Christmas present and so on. After all: What happened to 300,000 euros when they went to A.T. Kearney to support this reorganisation, which is what the SDs did again, and the predecessors at your ministry did. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an additional reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u339	Thank you very much for the additional questions. At present, I do not have specific information on me because it changes from day to day, but we can send updated data to you first thing tomorrow morning in order to get them to e-mail. If there is a delay, the Centre for Social Work also has a discretionary right to allow certain lump sums, as you stated, of course, to be imposed on such families. This is also the case every month in this way, and this is already a constant practice at the centres, if it is lagging behind in solving applications, so that we try, of course, to put out the fires that have occurred in this reorganisation and such a family in advance, in advance to indicate the amount that is then appropriate when the decision is issued, even the calculation. As far as staff are concerned, I must say that, according to financial options, social work centres have been strengthened by 11 per cent in the last year, approximately 140 civil servants, both professional and administrative staff. I think that the challenge before us is that we are also trying to make this reorganisation more substantive, which means that we are also optimizing certain processes. Finally, the IT itself will allow this, which means already in December, that for these annual rights, such as children's allowances and scholarships, parents will not need to re-invest in applications, but will be created automatically in the system. This means that social work centres will no longer have contact with the parties themselves, and they will also introduce this role into the system — about 25 thousand in December. Thus, social work centres will certainly be burdened with this administrative work and, in line with these objectives, we will continue in the future and try to equip social work centres as much as possible to be able to operate electronically. Therefore, as of 1 January, we will also introduce the information system Krpan if the tests in the coming days show that the information system is already capable of bringing it in without major problems. Thus, the centres here will also be burdened by a certain administrative work, because I think it is also time for them to start working on the professional work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Mr Kordish wants to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u341	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yes, I am making a request for a general debate for a simple reason. Social work centres were in a steep decline as a result of reckless, forced not to say forced, reorganisation adopted by the previous Ministry of Labour nomenclature. Everyone who is involved in the work of the Ministry of Labour or Centres for Social Work is experiencing an outage. It is felt by parents who have lost or are lagging behind, such as those parents who are waiting for a reduced wage. It is felt by students who do not know whether they will have a subsidized stay, whether it is burdened or not. It is also felt by those who are employed at social work centres because they are human resources-supported institutions that cannot carry out existing tasks in any way seriously. They are also hampered by the information system. And then people burned down, went to hospitals, even quit their jobs. This is not the result of the work of the current Minister, this is due to the work of her predecessors. Now it becomes clear why in the coalition negotiations the SD said, no, we do not want the Ministry of Labour – because they knew what they did – we will leave it to someone else. I think that the general debate would help to facilitate the resolution of the problem of social work centres and that the wing under which CSD reorganisation has been promoted is actually starting to work, that is – more on the ground, closer to people. It is now so that social workers are more bureaucrats than actually social workers who would move in the community and actually be able to help. As part of this general debate, I would also like to clarify what has happened with regard to the implementation of A. T. Kearney's services and advice. The previous Ministry nomenclature concluded a EUR 340 000 contract with this company and Anja Kopač Dark explained at the end of the previous mandate that this was because the Ministry cannot carry out a demanding project on its own hand, such as the reorganization of CSD. Well, now we are in a situation where there is nothing out of this effective reorganisation. So where did the money go? Did these 340,000 euros end only in pear? Because if that's the case, we need to explore it. Of course, it is a priority to rehabilitate a network of social work centres and to help users of social transfers, of course, with human resources and assistance to those who are already working there.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-17-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, in the framework of the votes. As it is said, the list of question-makers has been exhausted. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue on Wednesday, 19 December 2018, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the context of the votes. I am also adjourning the 3rd session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
