ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 39th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, mag. Bojana Muršič from 11 a.m., Mrs Vesna Vervega, Mrs Violeta Tomić from 17:00, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Erika Dekleva, Mr Primož Hianz from 16:00 to 21:00, Mr Roberto Battelli, Dr Vinko Gorenak from 16:00, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Ivan Prelog, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr Simon Zajc since 3 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček from 11 a.m., Mr Miha Kordiš, Mr Matjaž Germany from 16:00 p.m., Mr Tomaž Gantar from 12 noon, Mr Matjaž Han from 11 a.m., Mr Luka Mesec from 10.30 a.m. and Dr Milan Brglez from 9-11 p.m. and between 14-16 p.m. We're moving on to 13. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law on judicial examiners, judicial assessors and judicial interpreters, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. Colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask for some peace because we've started the session. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, who conducts ongoing business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, and for this addition to current business. Dear Members and Members! Forensic experts, interpreters and evaluators represent one of the key stakeholders in many judicial and administrative proceedings. In the history of independent Slovenia, this area has not been fully and comprehensively regulated so far, and this has also created a range of risks, problems and so on. You have before you the proposal for a first comprehensive, comprehensive law on judicial enforcement, evaluation and interpretation, which has been coordinated for a long time at the Ministry of Justice and has also received broad professional support from the interested professional public, the judiciary and the prosecution. What are the goals pursued by the law? In the first place, maintain or raise the level of professional competence of judicial experts, assessors and interpreters, both in terms of status and in terms of peer review of their professional competence. The second point is to ensure the responsibility of all stakeholders involved in individual trials, while respecting the principle of the division of power and ensuring stable legal certainty in judicial proceedings. To arrange rapid and effective disciplinary procedures in cases of problems and errors. To highlight the importance of the profession and the impact of the profession on the resolution of professional issues and through the guidelines to ensure the uniformity and quality of expert opinions of evaluations and interpretations. The law refers, as it were, to all these goals. We believe that it reaches them to a large extent. It is important to stress the establishment of a professional council in which representatives of all key areas and areas of expertise or languages will play a major role in setting up guidelines, in determining the verification of knowledge, training and so on. I've already mentioned disciplinary procedures. In general, to shorten, we have added to the law transitional provisions a provision whereby the Government, together with the National Assembly of Experts, will have to report within two years on how the new law has been implemented and what results it has given. I believe and hope that this law and its implementation will significantly help to strengthen the quality of expert opinions, evaluations and translations. As a result, it also raises the quality of the judge's decision and thus strengthens the image of the rule of law in the general Slovenian public. To the extent that business conditions are met, I also ask for a third hearing in this reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Ksenija Korenjak Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u4	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Justice Committee is at its 47th session. 3. 2018 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on judicial experts, judicial assessors and court interpreters submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Council of Justice, the Commission of the State of Justice, the definition of the Ministry of Justice to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the letter from the Association of Experts and Valuers of Maribor and the Association of Judicial Experts and Court Valuators of Slovenia for Construction and the Association of Permanent Interpreters and Legal Translators of Slovenia. Mr Goran Klemenčič, Minister for Justice, stressed the importance of judicial experts, judicial assessors and judicial interpreters for the work of the judiciary, particularly for effective, legal and professional decision-making on difficult issues. The basic objective of the proposed law is to systematically regulate the status and organisational normative provisions in the field of judicial enforcement, judicial evaluation and judicial interpretation in a single normative act, thereby ensuring a greater role for the profession in the treatment of professional issues and a high level of quality of expert opinions, evaluations and interpretations. The proposed law seeks to strengthen the responsibility of judicial experts, judicial assessors and judicial interpreters and ensures the transparency of their work. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Dr. Samo Dijak, said that comments from their written legal opinion were partly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. With regard to others, he warned that additional written explanations had been provided by the Ministry. He reiterated the envisaged position of the Council of Experts in terms of the principle of the division of power, in particular as regards relations between them and the Government and the competent ministry and the work of the executive branch. The Council of State presented the opinion of the State Council Committee on State Regulations, which supports the proposal of the law, in particular because of their importance in ensuring high quality. It draws attention to the insufficient number of forensic experts in the field of clinical psychology and psychiatry, as these will have an even more important role to play in the future with regard to the transfer of social work centres to the courts. The representative of the Supreme Court, Janko Marinko, stressed the importance of judicial experts, evaluators and court interpreters in the decision-making process. The representative of the State Attorney's Office, Andrej Ferlinc, supported the proposed law and stressed the importance of the expertise and quality of the work of judicial experts, judicial assessors and judicial interpreters. The Committee was also informed of the written opinion of the Council of Justice, which had no comments on the proposal. In the debate, MEPs raised the issue of the admissibility of referring judicial experts and judicial assessors to their status beyond judicial proceedings, which was also further clarified by the representatives of the proposer. The Committee then adopted the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 4, 16, 19, 22, 26, 27, 51, 52, 58 and 59 and its amendments as amendments to Articles 3, 6 and 57. The Committee also decided on proposals for amendments to the committee tabled by Mr Janko Vebra, but did not accept them. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law together on the law as a whole and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u6	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters are an important part of the judicial system; they are some kind of extended court deadline when it comes to determining or clarifying a fact where there is a need for expertise which the court alone does not have. He participates in criminal and judicial proceedings and, on the basis of their opinion, the Court also takes a final decision. This is, therefore, an important area which certainly needs transparent and very clear regulation. Matter has so far been regulated in Chapters of the Law on Courts and Other Under-Laws. The new law will make this area more transparent and clearer. In this part of Levica, we also welcome the proposal for a law. As we have seen several times in this mandate, there is also a questionable solution in the good proposal, and this time too, unfortunately. We have already met with judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters in this mandate, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' findings that the Ministry of Justice does not exercise proper control over their work outside the courts. For we have amended the Law on Courts because the Ministry has found that, I quote: “It is not appropriate to provide sufficient and adequate control over the work of judicial appreciaters, experts and interpreters carried out on the market.” End of quote. Therefore, the law provided that in such cases no reference should be made to the status of a judicial expert or a judicial assessor. The Council of State challenged such an arrangement before the Constitutional Court and concluded that the restriction was fully compatible with the Constitution. Nevertheless, today we have a law before us that re-introverts the possibility of court-martials and experts referring to this status even when they carry out their work on the market. As the Minister has said, this could be reintroduced by great pressure and because they want to attract as many experts as possible to decide to obtain such status. As a result, a person who operates on the market on the basis of an individual’s order or an undertaking, whose motive is, of course, profit, is allowed a reference to official status, which means greater reputation, expected greater expertise and thus a competitive advantage. Despite the fact that a competitive advantage is reflected in the fact that it is an official title that arouses hope, given the ministry's approval, this same ministry will not control it. When, say, we want to enforce a complaint on, say, sneakers, if you like. Consumers are increasingly demanding the opinion of a court expert, even more so, there are more and more frequent cases where the company already has a hired expert who issues an opinion in favour of the seller, of course. In doing so, the expert will refer to the status of a judicial expert who has sworn to carry out his work in his conscience and impartially. Despite the fact that it is not a matter of work or of conscience or of impartial work in such a case, the ministry will not act against it or control it. His work will be supervised by a society whose membership is by social rules. We are therefore returning to the situation that was before the Court of Auditors' audit, and although the Ministry is fully aware of the fact that such arrangements are not optimal, that it is not able to exercise control over the work of judicial assessors and experts and interpreters on the market, you will reintroduce this possibility in the coalition of the derogated government. We are opposed to such a solution in Levica. For salvation brings only benefit and gain, at the cost of effective control. A carrot without a stick, if you like. However, benefits and profits will be obtained to the greatest extent at the expense of consumers. The law on forensic experts, valuers and interpreters is why we will not support this in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government, respected citizens and citizens! The law governing the field of experts and valuers and interpreters is very important for the functioning of the courts. Experts and evaluators, as well as interpreters, are those who assist the court, especially experts and valuers, when they need help in deciding on actual issues not legal, on actual issues and it is very important how this area is regulated. So far, this area has been regulated in the 12th chapter of the Law on Courts in certain articles, but based on long-standing practice we have found that we need a special law to regulate this important area. The proposal for a law on judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters with its solutions is now systematically governed by the status or regulation, if adopted, and the organisation of the field of judicial execution, evaluation and interpretation in a single normative act, namely in a specific law governing this area. There is a greater role of the profession in dealing with professional issues and a high level of quality of expert opinions, evaluations and interpretations. It is important to set up a professional council as the highest professional coordinating body in the field of judicial execution, judicial evaluation and interpretation. Today we have 79 areas and 438 areas of expertise and 39 languages in the directory of forensic experts, valuers and interpreters. Therefore, the establishment of a central authority that can answer all questions on its own or turn to individual experts is essential. In short, the Ministry of Justice cannot have all the capacity to deal with these areas, but it must be left to the profession. And that's what this professional world is about. The experts, assessors and interpreters shall cooperate primarily as expert assistance to the courts and must be well aware of the work and decisions of the expert board. For this reason, the representative of the judiciary will participate in the expert council, but without the right to vote, but will certainly represent an inescapable entity in the communication between the judiciary and the expert, as this is absolutely necessary, because then the result of the decision in court is somehow the sum of all the stakeholders involved in the proceedings. The next of the key solutions offered by the proposal is also the regulation of disciplinary responsibility. The legislation in force only allows the discharge of a judicial expert, an assessor or an interpreter, and the proposed law provides for several disciplinary measures and disciplinary infringements are divided into easier and more difficult, so that the court or body can adapt these measures to a case-by-case basis. The proposed amendments also regulate the way in which decisive expertise is maintained, as more recent solutions are needed in the current area of professional complementarity. Due to all the solutions listed and others, in particular taking into account the importance of the role played by experts, evaluators and interpreters, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I have paper with me, and I'm not gonna read it, so you won't be afraid that I'll read too much. Look, now that this law came to Parliament, I was in charge of the parliamentary group and my assessment was, because the law was going in the right direction, and I was inclined to support the law or not at least oppose it. But look what happened on the board. On the Committee, you have surrendered to Members and Members of the coalition with the Minister. They succumbed to injuries, were said to be medically, succumbed to the injuries of the lobbies. Dr. Vatovec spoke and read, professionally and accurately, but I'm going to say, actually, because I have the same show ready, very much after my homework, what he said. The law in Article 3 accurately stated who the valuer is, what are the conditions etc., etc., what is the control, in short, okay. Now look what you brought to the board. You have brought to the committee an article in which you said, irrespective of the first paragraph of this Article, a judicial appreciater or an expert may refer to this status in other cases as well. Then you listed them: he is a member of a society that operates in the field of judicial execution or valuation, a member of a society that has acquired the status of a society that operates in the public interest and so on. Can I translate this into your own language? What have you accepted? You said that, say, a medical association has its conditions, has its status, and you know, a doctor can be a member, blah, blah, blah. This is under A. And now you've done B, and you said, regardless of your previous condition, you can also refer to the status of a doctor as a member of a health care company. And you did it — What? That a nurse can refer to the status of a doctor because he's just a member of that company. Yeah, you can't because she's not a doctor! And with that you opened up — What? The field of corruption in this area, the field, I'll say, of questionable action in this area, and you went against the Court of Auditors, which ordered you to settle this in a smart way. I don't know if you understand what you've accepted.Oh, my God! So that the nurse can refer to the status of the doctor. That's what you've accepted if we say it in a translated sense. Yeah, now just nod, yeah, but that's the way it is. Article 3 in this supplementary paragraph, which you have adopted, states exactly that and goes against the Court of Auditors. But you're the smartest man in the world to vote. [[…]] Thank you very much. We'll be against it, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Minister and co-workers, everyone's welcome! Today we are considering a completely new law, which is the fruit of many professional coordinations. The wide range of professions has helped us to have before us a proposal for a law that strongly builds on the content of the Law on Courts. It has so far partially regulated the content of the Court’s interpreters, experts, and valuers. Associations and societies in the field of judicial execution, evaluation and interpretation have only found a common language with the Ministry of Justice and finally supported the proposal of the law. During the course of the procedure, the drafters listened to their comments, which are included in the amended draft law. The current regulation dates back to 1994, and practice has highlighted the need for a comprehensive regulation of the area under consideration. This eliminates the risks and shortcomings of the existing system. Among other things, the impact of the profession in the field of the designation and maintenance of licences and the management of the procedures for the withdrawal of licences falls to about 200 persons. It must be said, however, that the new legislation does not turn the whole system upside down, so it will not be difficult to adapt to the new standards. Among other things, the proposal for a law brings the creation of a new body, which is the expert council, which will take over all powers relating to the profession, while administrative matters will still be carried out by the Ministry of Justice. An important novelty is the identification of disciplinary responsibility, for today we only know the possibility of discharge of judicial experts, valuers and interpreters, and under the new legislation it will be possible to establish a penalty proportionate to the mistakes made. The proposal further identifies a single statement of the structure, guidance and guidance for the production of expert opinions, sets out guidelines and guidelines for the production of expert opinions in specific areas. We support these changes in the Desus Group. I am pleased that after so many years, there has only been a comprehensive regulation of the field of appreciation, performance and interpretation. We are aware of the importance of the quality of judicial experts, assessors and interpreters, since their expert opinions have a strong impact on the outcome of judicial proceedings. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the proposal ensures a high quality of work and we will support it in the light of the above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The problem of the absence of a single professional system in the field of judicial execution, valuation, interpretation has been known for many years. This area is now regulated by the Law on Courts, but in a decade or two it has proved that the system is poorly regulated, that it is subnormal and does not give the profession sufficient meaning. The applicant has therefore prepared a proposal for a law on judicial experts, judicial assessors and court interpreters setting up a new single system for regulating the status and organisational rules of the profession. This means that the proposed law changes the role of the profession in all segments of the field regulation. The work of judicial experts, judicial assessors and judicial interpreters is still important for the good work of the courts, since they can further contribute to legal certainty by their special knowledge of an area of expertise. The proposal therefore set out the following objectives in the preparation of this proposal: ensuring the quality of expert opinions, valuations and interpretations, stressing the importance of the role and status of judicial experts, judicial assessors and judicial interpreters, ensuring the necessary impact of the profession on the resolution of professional issues, maintaining the high level of professional competence of judicial experts, judicial assessors and judicial interpreters, ensuring the necessary impact of the judiciary in the context of the regulation in question, economics and efficiency in the introduction of new institutes, the responsibility of all stakeholders involved in the individual trials, while fully respecting the principle of the division of power and ensuring stable legal certainty in judicial proceedings. It is clear from the proposal of the law that professional and wider stakeholders have also been involved in the preparation of legal solutions, of course with a view to the preparation of legislation as best as possible. Given the number of judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters, it is difficult to expect everyone to agree with the solutions proposed. Disagreement with individual solutions has been demonstrated by the fact that we have received their written comments. However, we can say that a broader consensus has been reached and that the very implementation of the law will show how good the proposal is or that it is a new system for regulating the area where the gaps remain. The importance of judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters was also pointed out on the committee by representatives of the prosecution and the judiciary. In particular, it was noted that a sufficient number of judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters should be ensured and their work quality ensured. And it was just yesterday that we noticed the news that there was a solemn arrest of forensic experts and forensic interpreters, which means a step towards pardoning the long-standing lack of judicial experts in the professional field of social work, psychology and psychology of the family. Following all of this, we are predicting support for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Thursday, 22 March 2018 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 26. Period of the day, that's an adversarial proposal for an Authentiological Explanation of 631. Member of the bond law. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the assembly by a group of nineteen Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to sign. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Daniel Krivic, for a further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President! Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have tabled a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Code in order to further protect subcontractors in judicial proceedings. The practice so far shows that they are in an unequal position. In its opinion, the Government does not deny our findings that the restrictive interpretation or concept of the condition of consistency of claims does not allow the subcontractor to make the required payment by the contracting authority, if it still has the money reserved for these works. It follows from the Government’s interpretation that the subcontractor may request direct payment from the contracting authority only if his work has not yet been paid to the main contractor. This means that the subcontractor is given only the opportunity to request payment from the contracting authority, i.e. to sue him, but does not grant the possibility of payment to the subcontractor in the event that the principal contractor has received the money from the contracting authority for the subcontractor’s work, but has not paid this work to its subcontractor. This means that the resources received for the work of the subcontractor can clearly be used for a second purpose without punishment and control. If I can explain the case. The contracting authority shall, for example, pay the painting works to the main contractor and the main contractor of these works shall not pay the subcontractor. In such a case, the condition of conformity is not met in accordance with the case law and the legal theory. Since the contracting authority has already paid the main contractor, even if it did not then pay the subcontractor. In our opinion, the purpose of Article 631 of the Bond Code is that when the main contractor does not pay the painting works to the manufacturer, it can be turned to the contracting authority for the payment of the said parts of the sum, which at that time owes the main operator, of course, on condition that the claims are recognised. However, the courts currently explain that the subcontractor cannot be reimbursed to the contracting authority, which means that it protects only the main contractor or allows him to continue using the funds and thereby unduly enriches the subcontractor. It is thus impossible for the subcontractor to apply Article 631 of the Law because the consistency of the claims for the same work cannot be met because the contracting authority has already paid, for example, the painting works to the main operator. However, the case law holds that the contracting authority will not pay the fine twice, regardless of the fact that it did not pay the subcontractor. We believe that the amendment of the law is not appropriate in this case, as the provision is sufficiently clear and abstract. The proposed interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Code would allow the subcontractor to pay in the cases described above, since otherwise there is an unjustified enrichment of the main contractor. By adopting an authentic interpretation, they would thus break the practice of abuse by the main operators, thus allowing them to be the main contractor and subcontractor in a more equal position. There is a lot of talk about legal practice and similar cases in certain cases, but the fact is that in Slovenia legal practice does not really exist in these cases, because certain cases have barely come before the courts when the consistency of individual claims is determined. It is illogical that someone, in some interim, temporary situation, reported the cases or had them misled, then of course the main contractor does not pay them to the subcontractor, would say the final claim, but when the proceedings arise, this subcontractor cannot enforce them, because the court considers that a temporary situation has already been paid to the main contractor and that the subcontractor is paid automatically, which this sub-contractor can prove in a legal dispute, but does not, according to the practice of the courts of this consistency. I think this is very wrong, and I believe that in this case you will support this authentic explanation. The board was already ready to handle this. This will save a number of subcontractors who are still awaiting payment of their works.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, to submit the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Justice Committee is at its 47th session. 3. 2018 as a parent working body has considered the proposal to amend the authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Code submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jožet Tanko. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the opinion of the Government and letters from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, GEO Engineering, Klima Ptuj and Campo. The representative of the proposer, Mr Daniel Krivec, pointed out in a supplementary explanation the proposed authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Code, for example in everyday practice, when subcontractors do not receive payment from the main contractor, but not from the contracting entity, although the contracting authority has not yet fully fulfilled its obligations to the main contractor. They therefore propose that the provision under consideration should be understood in such a way that the condition of consistency of the claim is met if both relate to works carried out under the same contractual relationship. This would allow subcontractors to request payment directly from the contracting authority and without additional risks to the contracting authority to pay from the amount owed to the main contractor for the whole work. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the written legal opinion explained that the National Assembly adopted an authentic interpretation of the law when the law was not sufficiently clear. It stated that the same provision already contained the Bond Relations Act and that legal theory and case law were uniform in that the purpose of the provisions under consideration was to protect both the subcontractor and the contracting authority. In the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, an authentic interpretation is not necessary, since in the present case it is not a provision which cannot be established by established methods of interpretation, nor can it be an answer to the applicant's disagreement with case law. The authentic interpretation adopted in order to change a completely uniform case law, supported by legal theory, is unacceptable and contrary to the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. The Minister of Justice presented a written opinion from the Government, which does not support the proposals for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 631 for the same reasons as the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee has moved to consider whether the proposed authentic explanation should be accepted. In the debate, Members drew attention to the issue of sub-contractors and their employees and of the protection of subcontractors. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the six-vote and five-vote committee decided that the authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Code should be adopted. On the basis of the decision adopted, the Committee went on to examine the text of the authentic interpretation of the law. There was no discussion by Members on the text of the authentic interpretation and no proposals for amendments to the Committee were made to the text of the authentic interpretation. The Committee then decided on a proposal for a decision that the Committee on Justice should propose to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Code in the proposed text, but adopted it by six votes in favour and six against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u19	Thank you very much. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. I'll be very brief. Thank you so much for saying that again. The opinion of the Government was given in writing, and it was also given orally on the committee, so I will repeat it again. The Government cannot support such an authentic interpretation of the article in question under the Bond Code for legal reasons, which are exactly the same as it said and very clearly expressed by the Legislative and Legal Service. Nor can the Government do so for substantive reasons. In fact, an authentic explanation that would change this article would result, if we could call it, in new injustices. So, under the line, we are aware of the problem and the objective pursued by this proposal. The problem of payments by subcontractors is serious, but the way in which you decided to resolve it is completely inappropriate and would probably cause new disputes, turned the case law upside down, which would be unpredictable for a number of other proceedings. In short, I urge you, on behalf of the legal safety and functioning of the Bond Code, not to support such authentic explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Teja Ljubič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u22	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Nice greetings to the minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The proposer shall adopt the authentic interpretations of Article 631 of the Bond Code on grounds where subcontractors do not receive payment from the main contractor or not from the contracting authority, despite the fact that the contracting entity has not yet fully fulfilled its obligation to the main contractor. Accordingly, they propose that the provision under consideration should be understood in such a way that the condition of consistency of claims is met if both relate to works carried out under the same contractual relationship. This would allow subcontractors to request payment directly from the contracting authority and without any additional risk to the contracting authority to pay from the amount owed to the main operator for the whole body. However, at this point it is necessary to stress the crucial — authentic — reasons for accepting the National Assembly when the law in law is not clear enough. So it means an explanation of a vague legal norm. Consequently, it constitutes an intervention into a law that has similar effects as a change of law, but with an important difference. It is without prejudice to the text of the law and cannot be amended for that purpose. The provision of Article 631 of the Bond Code is clear and at the same time substantively open to allow the courts to interpret it in concrete cases. The legal theory of this institute's interpretation is one thing. Nor does it argue that, in relation to Article 631 of the Bond Code, case law has not been established, as confirmed by the applicant. By adopting the proposed authentic interpretation, the legislator would therefore intervene in the content and purpose of that institution, as defined by the constitutional theory and practice. The adoption of the proposed authentic interpretation would even constitute a vigour and de facto modification of the provisions of the Bond Code and of the case law which has been formulated in respect of this provision. In terms of the impact of the authentic interpretation on the back, we are talking about an ex-tunc effect, in a particular case, given the date of entry into force of the Bond Code, this would mean a retroactive effect for as many as 16 years. The fundamental assumption justifying the need to adopt an authentic interpretation is the lack of clarity of the norm. The constitutional principle of clarity and the certainty of the rule, as one of the principles of the rule of law, requires that the rules be clear and specific, so that the content and purpose of the rule of law can be determined, which cannot mean that the rules must be such that they do not have to be interpreted. However, if the legislator considers that, in practice, the application of this provision leads to a different content than he intended to give himself, he has the opportunity to amend or supplement the law. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party are aware that an authentic interpretation can only be an extreme asset, which is within the legislator's competence, and in determining its adoption, the legislator must also be detained, in particular because of the independence of the judiciary and the principle of the division of power. Therefore, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre does not support the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are very well and very responsible for the problems and all the injustices experienced by unpaid subcontractors, many of them are no longer in the business world today, because it was the failure to pay them for their business activities, much with their property. However, it is worth noting that direct payments by subcontractors under bond law are not established as rules, but it is an exception. And of course this exception is the power to propose with an authentic explanation of 631. Articles. The explanation is very brief, and I will also read it: “Article 631 of the Bond Code must be understood by the fact that the condition of consistency of the claimant’s claims to the lessee and the lessee are satisfied if both claims relate to works made under the same contractual relationship.” By this authentic interpretation, it is possible for the subcontractor to request direct payments only in the event and in a way that such a request can be successfully implemented by the main operator. Therefore, that provision of the Bond Code does not create any additional obligations or risks for the contracting authority. Now, let me make one concrete case. At the time, I would say, conjunctures and, of course, after the conjuncture curve had also turned around, especially the largest of these unpaid subcontractors remained from the major contractors, of course today the fallen ones, from SCT, Gradis, Primors and so on, as well as the main contractors, that is to say today these large failed companies, from the contracting entity have not yet been paid in full, whether they have a retained share of 10% of the contract amount or even some other unpaid share. And, of course, with this explanation, the subcontractor may apply directly to the contracting authority its unpaid claim. With this explanation that we are proposing, we will make it possible for him to do so. For it explains that a certain type of work was paid, I don't know, in the initial phase, in the first, second or third situation, in the final situation, the whole construction or construction or project or whatever and has nothing to do with the individual type of work. It's not connected to any kind of work that's already been paid no matter when. And with this authentic explanation, the subcontractor may apply its unpaid claim directly from the contracting authority. Therefore, the contracting authority does not have any risk in view of the final situation and the final amount and is all in what is actually done, even in the final account. If I summarise the so-called provision of Article 631 of the Bond Code, as proposed, subject to the completion of the conditions that both the recognition and the claim of subcontractors to the principal debtor and the claim of the principal contractor to the contracting authority are met, the subcontractor may refer directly to the contracting authority if there is a sum owed to the principal operator from this transaction. However, the sum owed by the contracting authority may also be part or whole of the obligation to pay for the building, not part or whole of the obligation to pay for each type of work. This is an essential difference because, of course, we are not talking about individual types of work in the final situation. In short, we propose that this authentic interpretation of reception be corrected and that these many unpaid subcontractors be compensated for this injustice and that they receive their fair remuneration for their work they have done.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Honorable representatives of the government! The fact is that, in practice, all too often there are cases where subcontractors do not receive payment for their work from the main contractor, so it is understandable that the applicants propose to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Law in order to enable subcontractors to request payment also directly from the contracting authority and to pay from the sum owed to the main contractor for the whole job without any additional risks to the contracting authority. Of course, such a proposal is welcome, but it must be said that an authentic interpretation is not necessary in this case, since it is not a provision whose meaning could not be established by established methods of interpretation. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as well as by the Government, which does not support the proposed authentic explanations. Why so, there is also evidence of a case law that is uniform in such cases. The provision of the Bond Code is clear and at the same time so substantively open that it allows the courts to interpret it in concrete cases in accordance with the fundamental principles and rules of interpretation and the social situation and circumstances of a particular case. However, the authentic interpretation is permissible only in cases where the provision is unclear and allows for different interpretations, which is not the case for today's article of the Bond Code, and therefore we do not support it in the Desus Group. Whether the contracting authority, the contractor and the subcontractor should amend the legislation on the relationship is already another issue and subject to the legislative procedure. However, given that we are at the end of our term of office, such a procedure is, of course, out of the question. However, if there is a need for a change, we will examine it in the Desus Group in the upcoming new reference to the National Assembly. As we have already said, we do not support the proposal for an authentic explanation in the Desus Group. It is not supported either by the profession, since a uniform case law has already been established in this regard. However, we must say that this National Assembly has already adopted the Public Procurement Act in November 2015. We also supported him in the Desus Group. We have estimated that this is an extremely large public procurement issue, as has already been demonstrated by the practice of spending public money, and that it is necessary to give the law the opportunity to live in a practice that will only make it clear whether the law will need to be supplemented or amended. This is already the task of the next call of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you very much again, Vice President. As we have already heard, the proposal for an authentic explanation concerns the issue of unpaid subcontractors. This is about, you could say, an eternal problem that we wanted to solve in Levica in 2015. In fact, when adopting the new Public Procurement Act, we have tabled a number of amendments that we wanted, among other things, companies that exploit workers and violate their rights, prohibit participation in public tendering, ensure a shift from the lowest price as a key criterion for selecting the contractor and ensure that subcontractors are paid in the same way throughout the sub-contracting chain. These solutions would, in fact, solve most of the cases, including what we are dealing with today. In particular, in Levica, we proposed that the contracting authority should require the principal to send a written declaration to the subcontractor every three months, as well as a written declaration by the subcontractor that all the liabilities have fallen due. If the liabilities were not settled, all outstanding claims would be settled directly to the subcontractor. Such a provision would apply to all subcontractors and subcontractors. We have proposed this kind of interim reporting precisely because of the problem in larger and longer-term projects where the most or most of the problems occur. Our proposal was not adopted at the time, so we are still facing these problems. Sub-contractors immediately prior to or in bankruptcy and unpaid workers for their work and without paid contributions. If the coalition, which already knew what the actual problems were in practice, had contributed to its vote, a clear and transparent system today would have prevented the exploitation of subcontractors. If the main contractor had not settled its obligations, the contracting authority would have settled them directly to the subcontractor, quickly and effectively. But, as I said, it didn't happen. Today we are discussing the authentic interpretation of the Bond Code relating to the payment of subcontractors. The provision of this code is sixteen years old and it is in some ways entirely logical that it was created in completely different circumstances, which, in the present situation or situation after 2008, is no longer appropriate and does not provide subcontractors with adequate protection. However, the question is whether the right solution offers today's proposal. In fact, the court's claim for the consistency of the claim would be compensated by some sort of system that comes first after the proposal for an authentic explanation. This would solve the problem of subcontractors who remain unpaid today. However, the problem would arise for those who are normally getting paid today. The problem would therefore remain unchanged, only to be attached to another sub-contractor group. The solution, which was only appropriate and would also solve the problems of all unpaid subcontractors, was rejected in 2015. If amendments to the Left were adopted at that time, today's debate, I would stress once again, it would not be necessary. Because of the opposition's opposition's opposition and opposition's opposition, even if they are necessary and appropriate, we are still discussing identical problems today. As it is said, the authentic explanation under consideration does not offer an appropriate or ideal solution, yet it offers much more than the Government and the coalition have offered to date. That is why we will not oppose the proposal in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We propose a discussion on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the text of the authentic interpretation. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, again. I've listened very carefully. I must say, I find it difficult to agree with a lot of people. I think that my colleague has now made it clear in the end that in any case some things are improving, there are no ideal things in this country. However, it was very interesting when most Members referred to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, particularly in the coalition. I really want to know, we can also give them statistics on how many times they overturned the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service when the matter was being dealt with in the legislative process. This argument, if not substantive, is essentially irrelevant. You've talked a lot about legal practice in this case. If we look at legal practice in Slovenia. It's very interesting. In the case of a bank hole that you all swear is our priority, we have very different legal practice. The courts at the end of Styria, Celje, Maribor and so on in certain cases decide differently than the court in Ljubljana, while we have the same legislation as in this case that we are now talking about. This is to avoid such complications and differing positions and legal practices in the courts, which is unfortunately the usual practice in Slovenia, which must be adopted in certain cases by authentic interpretation. Otherwise, in some ways, it is very misleading for you to refer to the legal practice and opinions of the legal services. You also had opinions in other cases when you also violated the Constitution in the National Assembly, not once. In this case, however, it is a specific situation that would allow the actual remuneration of the people who have done the work to be paid, and the courts in some way exclude them from the proceedings, although they have all the evidence that they are entitled to payment under Article 631 of the Bond Code, which is actually intended to protect subcontractors. However, you put your head in the sand and protect the main contractors who are in bankruptcy proceedings so that this part of the assets available is lost in some black holes. You don't want to see it as a problem. That there is also talk about how it will affect back and what it will all mean. Actually, that doesn't hold. It's just an excuse not to change things. Look, if we have a law that we know does not work or that it does not bring good solutions, it is my view that it is the legislator's job to change that. In this case, it is not possible to introduce a new law because the mandate is expired and the only solution is the authentic interpretation of one article. None of you, either in the opinion or in the oral explanation, claimed that this could not be done in this way. All the other excuses were, all the other arguments, from some legal practice from some point of view on some of the existing solutions in practice that really did not work and did not happen. And now we have the fact that one thing works badly in this room and you don't want to fix it. I think that's the least that's unacceptable. The fact is that this proposal does not in any way question the procedures already completed. It is only about solving matters that will take place in advance and that are still under way and with nothing that affects what you want to point out that someone will make a priority payment or that someone may even have some profit out of it. It is only contractual relations that are recognised in a court of law and cannot in some way be overpaid because they are necessary for a payment to be made, clear evidence in the proceedings itself. The only thing that would have happened in addition is probably a little more work for the courts or for the procedures themselves, which will still have to verify certain documents and thus probably have a little more work to do in this case. Everything else you're saying is irrelevant. In no way shall this procedure be affected. And to talk about legal practice in Slovenia, I will stress once again when every court in Slovenia decides differently, although I hope we have the same laws in this country, and two courts do not decide in certain cases in the same way, it is difficult to speak. And in an unequal situation, there are those who, in the proceedings of their subcontractors in some courts, receive a compulsory payment, although they have not yet obtained such funds from the main contractor. In this case, too, individuals are in a different legal situation in this country. This authentic explanation would at least resolve this inequality and set uniform criteria for all those participating in the process. However, you do not want to see this, you are saying that the 2015 Public Procurement Act has been amended and we have therefore resolved matters. I must say that there was also a lot of debate on this and the question on the committee, because we have already dealt with subcontractors in detail and also with specific laws, but obviously we have not solved all the cases that are in practice. And this authentic explanation actually solves all those cases that are now taking place in the courts and that have a long beard for major projects in the past. Thus, the Public Procurement Act 2015 does not, in this case, bring any added value to the solution in the case of Article 631, which is intended solely for the protection of subcontractors. I appeal to you, however, that when we decide, consider and look at all the materials that have been attached, and do not refer as a parrot to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, because the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service has been the most overtaken by you in this coalition, in all the procedures, you have always respected the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, so that this excuse is simply not put in place for you. But you don't want to talk about content, you don't want to see problems, everything is perfect in this country. When a problem arises, it is an excuse to adopt system laws, but in four years you have not adopted one smart system law, but you do not want to solve matters that have no effect on any one, but allow those who are in some cases damaged by the failure to pay, that they can survive, and that is to say, that we may also maintain a job, and that will not allow any Crown to fall down on the Ministry or on any other which has argued very theoretically, but did not look at the practical cases that are taking place in the courts.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u31	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek and Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In its debate, I would briefly touch on this issue and would say that the applicants have tabled a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Law because they find that all too often there are cases where subcontractors are left without payment because the main operators do not do so for such and other reasons, sometimes due to bankruptcy and insolvency. The SDS proposes that subcontractors may request payment directly from the contracting authority of the works and that subcontractors may be reimbursed from the amount owed by the contracting authority to the main contractor. The legal and legal service – I will – even though Mr Krivec is critical of this, but I will rely on this opinion – notes that there is no need for an authentic explanation, because the case that we are considering is not such that its importance could not be determined by established methods of authentic interpretation. However, I will ultimately define myself to the opinion that Mr Krivec has previously expressed. I have also prepared cases of how the authentic interpretation is being carried out and the opinion of the Constitutional Court, Judge Magi. Jadranka Sovdat and Judge Muzetič, but I think this would be a waste of time, because you could all read this opinion in the position of the Legal and Legal Service that we have attached. To conclude, I would say that, in view of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Committee based on this, I support the view that an authentic interpretation of Article 631 of the Bond Relations Act is not necessary. Secondly, as I have already said before, I accept the explanations that Mr Daniel Krivec has just stated, which are mainly in that there are many cases of injustice to subcontractors who do not get paid because this or the main contractor does not want to do so and makes use of the resources that we should give to subcontractors, and we have already seen such cases that there are sometimes, or many times, bankruptcys and, of course, the payback of the subscriber is lost in these claims and payments to the priority beneficiaries in the bankruptcy process, and thus, of course, subcontractors are left without everything and, of course, many times in this area comes to great traumas, major problems and, in fact, to family tragedies, because they are usually especies that are most often found as subcontractors in these larger investments. And, of course, I think that these are really great injustices and that our country should not allow it to be so easy, I will say, around these people who do, they also have hired workers, and then they all lose their pay. I therefore believe that it is necessary to amend legislation in this direction, and of course, since we are in the running out of the mandate of this reference, I propose a new call by the National Assembly to prepare a legislative amendment in this direction as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u33	Mr Daniel Krivec, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u34	Thank you. I have to take this one more time. Now we're again giving assignments to a new reference, but we have a chance to solve this. Again, a great deal of debate or your justification was in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. I will only give you one example of how you acted in this mandate. In the event of the withdrawal of our colleague's term of office, the Legal and Legislative Service was very clear that you were violating the law and the constitution, and you overstepped it. In this case, we will not do any great harm to anyone, despite all the opinions you have listened to. This authentic interpretation allows only in cases where there is still some money or some asset value, maybe 10%, which is usually retained in large projects in a process where subcontractors are entitled to do so. In those cases where the matter is already exhausted or some speculation is involved, such payments cannot come in any way. We allow these subcontractors to reach at least 10% of the retainers who are usually in these proceedings, not going to bankruptcy, not to go to the main contractor who speculates, but to have subcontractors who are eligible under the basic contract, who prove that they have not been paid in previous situations. The current position of the courts and some practice does not allow this. And in our opinion, and even if you have read all our explanations, it is inappropriate, because the Bond Law and this article was specifically intended to protect subcontractors. In this case, such situations are simply not protected. Therefore, once again, I appeal to you to read something and that, I have nothing against the Legislative and Legal Service, it has been said before, I only wanted to point out that at least what is in this mandate, the coalition has overtaken the majority of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. We respect it, but if you have seen it, it mostly refers to some legal theory and some things that have not been tested in practice, but we have now tabled the matter because in practice it has proved that the matter is not effective, does not protect subcontractors, causes problems and would solve it in an elegant way. The law can also be amended further and it can also protect subcontractors further, but this gives us the opportunity to resolve at least some companies that may be at the brink of collapse with some authentic explanation. And if we save one society, I hope you're slowly aware that we're not just solving big things, but that sometimes we have to solve small things, which in practice mean a very big problem to someone. And if we solve any of these things, it's a good thing and we should be pleased, but not propose a new reference to a new law that will solve all matters. It is usually the practice that shows that certain things do not work, and in such cases it is also our task to respond and try to resolve things. In spite of all the opinions. Once again, neither did the ministry but the Priory say that this matter should not be resolved in this way. They said that in principle it was not that it was very likely or likely to cause some problems or damage, but it was all on some hypothetical level. In fact, we have a problem that we have been alerted to, we have received material, and we are trying to resolve it. And unfortunately, we're at the end of the term, but at least there's a good thing we can do.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u35	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare for the mag. Dusan Verbich and Mr. Tink Lah. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The minister's gone. Comrade Krivec is trying hard to tell all of us or those who do not understand and who do not want to understand the great problems of those who do what is right and who have done what is right and who have not been paid for it. During this term of office, I myself have faced the problems that these operators have to say. But in my previous job, because I was working on one company and I was able to see how large systems could destroy a small, smaller one, which, I repeat, did my job correctly, paid off all the materials he spent on those works, paid fair contributions and paid the wages, and then lost everything. Of course, the worst part is, someone else is making fun of him in court. I think that we are Members and Members of this call, but of course all the previous ones and also those who will come after us in this National Assembly, so elected and here to solve the problems, not to do them. When I listened carefully today to the views of the parliamentary groups, except for the last one, the Left, they were mostly eloquent, as well as the Minister, that there was a problem and that there were great comments from the Legislative and Legal Service. I must also reiterate that we have witnessed many times in this reference, when you, the representatives of the coalition, the Legislative Service pleases you, when, even if she had a second opinion, as you have advocated, you overstepped this job, of course when it suits you, and you apologize to her. I think that everyone you're discussing today, a colleague from Desus, has even given the next call to the National Assembly to arrange this. See, for four years, four years we have been sitting, it will be almost four years soon that we are sitting in the National Assembly and that the coalition MP is now voicing all the weights on the legal service, on the Legislative and Legal Service, on the Minister that there was nothing to be done, and on the other hand he will say the task of the next call of the National Assembly. I don't know what those people who suffer all over Slovenia think. Here, of course, I mean all the small operators, I repeat, who have done the right thing in 99% of the work, paid all the materials they needed to do these works, paid their employees' contributions and paid their salaries, and then destroyed, most of the time planned, their small businesses, their families, and consequently all the employees in that company. Let me tell you an example of a company that's a bankruptcy, so I'm going to say that everyone's going to understand, toss their noses for a million 700. Of course, this money was not a dump, it's probably not a dump today. This company, which fought to achieve justice in court, had to pay 25 000 euros for each fee. And what was the purpose of this bankruptcy? To get this little company dry as soon as possible, and then that loot that was prepared somewhere, as I said before, will go to the million 700 where it was headed, to the unfair channels. And of course, that we will have a feeling of what scenarios, then also what Comrade Krivec was saying, are behind, and in the end it was even realized that the bankruptcyist and the President of the Court are hiding together every week. How can the firm that did the work properly, and I repeat, pay for all the materials, pay all its employees, get justice in court. I think that someone who doesn't understand this in this national assembly and who puts this task forward now to the next reference, I think, I almost hope to say that he doesn't deserve to have sat in this call in the National Assembly. I don't think there's a Member or a Member that hasn't felt this problem in his environment, whether it's in Cyprus, or in Murska Sobota, or in Koroška, or in Dolenjska. Surely this proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party today, I will not say that it is best to be ideal, but it is getting a little closer to some solutions, so I call on all of us not to speak to lawyers, to legal services, to the next call of the National Assembly, but to be aware of the problems of our entrepreneurs who are being wronged and who will probably be in the future if we do not get a little closer to it when we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u37	The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. What a lovely greeting to a handful of Members and Members of Parliament on this subject! For the introduction before I go to the content, I'll still be able to say the following. I am also looking at democracy in this National Assembly, in view of the fact that a Member or a Member of the National Assembly is not always bound by the decision taken by the position of the Executive Branch, the Legislative and Legal Service, or perhaps not by the position of the Home Member Group, if he considers or assesses that the arguments are also of such a nature as to convince him that he may somehow be entitled to a negative position. This is how I explain my views on democracy in the National Assembly and, in individual cases, I also make this decision. So much for the intro. However, given that there is such a strong occupation of the presence of Members and Members on this subject on subcontractors, it gives me practical direction or evidence that this group of subcontractors, which has often been touched by different groups and Members in this National Assembly on various topics and debates, has a significant segment of these so-called medium-sized enterprises, small enterprises and craftsmen, clearly also associated with their employees, who are one of the key elements of the practical economic development of the Republic of Slovenia. And with such a great presence of Members, I hope to say that all those who put great weight on this segment of the economy are convincing us that this political rhetoric in the National Assembly has at least two sides. The fact is that subcontractors are in the public procurement system and all the forms that are on the market, of which the most recognised activity in construction is, I can say, and I am sure that these are the most risky groups. Above all, not in that segment of cooperation in obtaining a business, but especially when these groups, these companies, perform their service on some normal routes, electoral or whatever, agreed, and then end up in payment. That is why I am of the opinion that they represent a truly large risk group. I am also in the position that if this proposal for an authentic interpretation increases the legal and financial security of these companies, it is said that small, medium and craftsmen and their employees, I simply support this proposal of the proposer and I think that this is a necessity, precisely because of the protection of their employees at a crucial stage. It must be acknowledged, however, that this group, which we call the joint name of subcontractors, is generally touched by two legal materials, and this is the Bond Code, which is subject to today, as well as the Public Procurement Act. It has to be acknowledged that the Public Procurement Act, and here I have to object a little bit or much to the proposaler that this coalition has done nothing about certain specific matters, yes, we have adopted the Public Procurement Act and a few months ago we have also adopted a supplement to the Public Procurement Act solely in order to ensure greater legal and financial security, but the market is operating according to some of the laws, and what we see in other areas is that in the Republic of Slovenia regulatory institutions do not always work in the same direction as they are established, weaknesses are happening. And here we are again with subcontractors who usually pull short. It is therefore right that we have this debate today and, as I mentioned in the introduction, it is also right that it may also be protected by such a form of protection of their rights. Nevertheless, I will touch because so far there has been no talk as to what this Article of the Bond Code stipulates. I will also read it: “Co-workers may refer directly to the employer for their claims and ask him to pay them out of the amount that he owes to the lessee at that time if they are recognised.” What I mentioned in the introduction is that we have two marriages, which is a bond. It is true, however, that when we adopted the Public Procurement Act, we also defined there by providing that subcontractors can also directly agree with contracting entities to have the so-called open route of direct payment. What is now in practice, however, must be recognised that we are getting different information on how this is being done. The fact is that this conflicting information is going in the direction of, as a rule, a shorter path for subcontractors. That is why it is all the more important to think and also the view that this authentic interpretation almost in no way harms the market but gives greater security to subcontractors. That's kind of my humble opinion. As far as the government's point of view is concerned, I wouldn't argue here, but somehow I would have touched the position of the Legal and Legal Service. I think I belong to the category of Members, Members who occasionally, depending on the subject, also allow me to oppose or to take a slightly different position, such as the position of the Legislative and Legal Service. I think that this is perfectly right, allowed, legitimate, because the views of the Legal and Legal Service are primarily intended for us Members to make our decisions easier or easier, I can say, we justify our decisions. And when we are in the specific case of the ZPS, I must admit that their position is very clearly recorded with two aspects, one is judicial practice and the other is legal doctrine. If I'm in court, I'd touch one thing here, and I'll quote or quote what they wrote. They wrote about this item in the agenda, saying, authentic explanation: "Authenticity would be adopted in order to change a completely uniform case law, supported by legal theory." Here I cannot agree with the proposaler's words, which he even specifically stated, and I also agree that in a number of areas we cannot talk about uniform case law. It is not a deplorable criticism of the autonomous branch of power, but it is a reality. I will not repeat the case, as has been stated, as regards the activities of the banking parliamentary commission of inquiry. In addition to the case in this economic area, I will not talk about criminal matters, there is a lot going on and it convinces us that there is no case law uniform in certain segments. But where we talk about subcontractors, here's a shame about any comments. The fact is that I am also expecting in these decisions of the judiciary that this judicial practice that we are all looking forward to, and if we are getting a little familiar with the countries that have a tradition of putting much on the so-called case-law or judicata and our expectations are, above all, to give us a very clear message in the final decisions on legality and justice in individual decisions. Because I'm still in the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, why in this case I'm a bit held back and I'm not quite on their side. I have before me the position of the Law-Legislative Service of other authors, because we know that there are more employees in our Law-Legislative Service, which is also right, and look at it as a fraction of what is in another position, which we will also have on our home committee, I think in short if there is time for what they wrote, as far as authentic explanations are concerned. Here I am touching what I mentioned in the introduction, which is also based on legal doctrine, which is also right. What do they say about the authentic explanation? However, I will not quote everything because specific cases are listed and downhills, but the following is written, but it claims that the case law has changed over time and is precisely the meaning that this provision, which is not to be quoted, has attributed it to a case-law which has deviated from the legislator's purpose. Interesting. And now, in this regard, the ZPS draws attention to the legal theory that an interpreter can understand the text better than his creators understood. Yes, as far as law-makers are concerned, I suppose, given that we're adopting laws, it's a burden on us. In this case, it is said that the view of the Legislative and Legal Service is also somewhat different in understanding the authentic interpretation. However, since I mentioned that I am not touching the content of this second point of view of the ZPS, it is very identical matter. To the conclusion. As far as the Law-Legal Service is concerned, I would also like to point out something here, and I very much appreciate their position. And I really hope to say 98% I have always advocated, which is also right, because I was sure that their position was right. In that case, I'm detained. However, I am on the road that I have this position somewhat reserved, especially with regard to the Constitutional Court's decision a good month ago, when we had a very strong and clear position on the home committee, the Committee on Finance, a very controversial debate on amendments to the Law on Immaterialised Securities, where the position of the Legislative and Legal Service was very strong and clear and the whole of this State Assembly was also behind this position, I allowed myself then to object, and the Constitutional Court fully overcame the position of the Legislative and Legal Service as well as the National Assembly. Only so much in this work that sometimes we allow Members to take a different position from the ZPS or the Government. What happens if we support the applicant’s position? Personally, in this case, I believe that nothing particular will happen, a simple proposal from the applicant for an authentic interpretation of a specific article, will happen. However, I firmly believe that a number of subcontractors would or would be allowed to obtain those so-called expected funds or payments for which they had previously done all the required services, whether they were intellectual or physical services. That is why I see no harm in supporting the proposal of the proposer here, because no matter how the legal theory or position of the current branch of power is, in this case, I think we must be in the position of the weaker party in the process. Finally, I would like to know what the vote on this point will be, especially on all those who have a lot of words about protecting the so-called part of the economy, medium-sized enterprises, small businesses and craftsmen, and in particular their employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u39	I'll read all three other names that have been filed. First of all, Mr Igor Zorčič, Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Ljubo Žnidar continue. Mr. Igor Zorčič, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u40	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think the debate on this issue, which is being addressed at this point, is somehow being simplified. I am not sure that many of you have seen in your life a large number of construction contracts, a large number of court decisions, decisions of first-degree courts, a second-degree decision, the Supreme Court. Perhaps with all this, if we had this privilege to get to know everyone, today some would have discussed it differently. I am convinced that subcontractors are actually some vulnerable group of parties in business contracts, in construction contracts, but I do not think that such handball solutions, as proposed today, will bring any benefit to anyone. If there are any concrete procedures at this point in court and some promise to benefit from the adoption of an authentic explanation, I am sure that their situation will become more complicated. It is possible to place itself in the position of subcontractor and then explain from the subcontractor's point of view what it should enjoy, and there is nothing wrong with it, but we need to know that this jurisprudence, based on a relatively clear law, also has its own logic. And that logic is to prevent paying twice for the same thing. Now, dear fellows, I have not heard from you how you will prevent the contracting entity from paying for a foundation twice, once to the main contractor and once again to the subcontractor. And in fact, this question is not answered by your initiative. That makes perfect sense to me. See, we are witnessing that, at first with the same provision of the Bond Relations Act and then the Bond Code, and also during the crisis and during the greatest number of conflicts, the largest number of cases where subcontractors were cheated, no one in the National Assembly recalled that they would change the Bond Relations Act or the Bond Code into a different dictatorship. This case law has already been applied to a number of cases. I'm surprised that you want to at least show that you want to solve a certain situation with some kind of authentic explanation, which may actually be the basis for all those who already have legal powers to be harmed, in an explanation that is different from this authentic explanation. What I'm trying to say is that with an authentic explanation, we're changing the content or explaining it for the law back. And I'm wondering if we're bringing more legal certainty into the legal order or just confusion. I am sure that, first of all, the substantive solution is not complete because it does not answer the question of how to prevent double payments from the main contracting authorities. Nor is it formal; the process path of authentic interpretation of the one which would introduce a legal order in this area, on the contrary, introduces legal disorder. And if we touch on some of the views of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Judges, I am sure that the adoption of such a constitutional or authentic interpretation would become an unconstitutional decision of Article 631 of the Bond Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u41	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleague and colleagues, welcome.Oh, my God! I also welcome the Minister of Justice, who is not physically here, but I believe he is in the spirit of us, because this is a very important matter. It is the protection of subcontractors, it is the protection of Slovenian small, micro and medium-sized enterprises. But I really regret that today we can conclude and find that the absence of the Minister of Justice is a very clear illustration of the approach to the protection of subcontractors by the current authorities, even though they are on their way out. And with such an illustration and such a lack of action, we are actually engaged in or are not engaged in this entire mandate. The policy of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, as regards the protection of subcontractors, i.e. fair pay for honest work, is consistent and I will not explain here for long, just to mention to you, about two years ago we put in a parliamentary procedure a novel of the Public Procurement Act precisely to protect subcontractors. Of course, you've run us over by coalition colleagues, you've run over a solution that we believe was a good solution. On the other hand, we note that in the latest novel, the government novels of the Public Procurement Act are not, you have to admit, there is no solution that would protect subcontractors who would therefore follow the principle of Fair Pay for Fair Work. And we've been doing this practically for at least seven years, I think maybe even more. What dramas, what dramas we read, family tragedies, when the very successful companies that invested their money failed, did a good job, especially in the construction industry, and then received no payment from the big ones. And yes, some, of course, when I listen to this debate, I do not like the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, but I am not a lawyer, I cannot assess it professionally, but I can assess it politically and find that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is a very clear slap to the Ministry of Justice, not to tell the whole Government that it has not been able to solve this problem. And we can't just talk about subcontractors, that they're some endangered group, some endangered group, but that this authentic explanation isn't the right solution. Please don't be so arrogant, please, not so arrogant to judge, at least the right block of the opposition, that we are putting in some proposals to improve the business environment, for better and fair business practices, now we are getting evidence here, because this practically whole mandate is to put in some solutions so that we like to talk about it and so on. Look, we don't have the machinery back in our parliamentary groups like the ministries, but every solution, I'm talking about New Slovenia, every proposal for a solution that we've proposed in this mandate or in any previous one, has a sincere intention of improving some situation, yes, in this case, protecting this very important group, an endangered group of subcontractors. There is something else I want to say when I talk about the consistent policy of New Slovenia. Some people tell us we're capitalists. Yes, we are, but employers tell you – those who need too little on the ground – employers, business owners, directors tell you. My, our biggest capital is people. Here our solutions are about protecting people, this is now, I hope that the universal Slovenia already knows our economic model, the model of the social market economy. And in this context, we had and still have in the parliamentary procedure a law that goes in the direction of protecting the employer. It's a regression claim. You all know the subject. You'll have the opportunity to improve this matter and then we'll all support it together. There is also a solution in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is in parliamentary procedure and talks about dual status, which speaks of the fact that in Slovenia it should not be prohibited to work if I achieve a right called a pension. Is it normal for me to sing that song, say, that gets the right to a pension, to say we do, now you have to close or you don't get the whole pension? Why not give him a pension and commend him for continuing to work, even if he has associates, if he has employees? It just doesn't work for me, and I just don't understand it. That is why, of course, we are, with such mentality, a society in the European Union, where, of course, the youngest withdrawal from the labour market is the fastest and, of course, the oldest goes to the labour market. Then who else is going to pay contributions, taxes and so on? At the time of the 2009 economic crisis, all the way back to 2012, as a result of the overindebtedness of Slovenian companies, as I have already said, especially construction, the remaining unpaid number of subcontractors, we are now talking about them. Some of the more visible investments involved public investments, public funds. There was also quite an active Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which said that in 2011 the RS Government had set up a working group on the resolution of twenty-four specific cases of subcontractors' problems. Only twenty-four more visible projects identified over €33 million of unpaid subcontractor claims. Do you know what only 50 grand means for a small craftsman or 100 for a micro-enterprise? That's what crushes him and crushes his family. That is why I initially spoke — and we all know that — about the family tragedies caused by these atrocities. Nobody's ever been in charge of this before. Unfortunately, I note that the authorities are not firmly placed on the side of the protection of these subcontractors either. During this period, the State allowed dumping of services only on the basis of the lowest price, through the selection of the most favourable provider, leading to the non-payment of taxes, contributions, salaries of employees and, more recently, subcontractors and their employees. In all of these cases, the State has played a stepmother role. The country has played and is still playing a stepmother's role, since, above all, it has contributed to a large extent to reducing the legal and business security of many small and medium-sized enterprises with the lowest price criterion and without checking abnormally low offers. This security, which we are talking about practically all of this mandate, is extremely important and is multi-dimensional, multi-dimensional. It is this business security, as far as I am speaking to foreign delegations, ambassadors, foreign parliamentarians, when we address them, that I am at least always speaking and proposing to a country's ambassador to perhaps animating their businesses in order to invest in Slovenia. One of the answers why a country, including a member of the European Union, invests relatively poorly in Slovenia is too low security, too low investor protection. We all know that. I don't think anyone here can and won't challenge me. I hear criticism that this is not the right solution. You know, it always gets me into a bad mood. That's what we all know, yeah, that's not the solution. Yeah, well, for God's sake, bring me a better one. So the one who criticises that it's a bad solution or that or whatever, but he doesn't have his own, he's a coward. Excuse me. This seems to me to be such a very cheap debate and I regret that I have seen quite a bit of arrogance to this solution that we are discussing, but also, so I have seen, even a few arrogances towards these subcontractors, if we have not seen their contracts and so on. Actually, I'm not going to watch these contracts. The fact is, they didn't get paid so they didn't get a fair pay for a decent job. If the work has not been done or has not been done well, then I am not on the side of the performers. However, if it has been done fairly, if the signed documents are appropriate, take-over records and so on, take over technically and so on, then a fair payment must also be made. That's what this is about. I'm glad we even met with the eyes of the Mags. A verb that indicated some affection for this solution. Again, perhaps, in a legal sense, it is not ideal. But if it is willful, then this solution will also work and work. As for the support of New Slovenia, it is guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u43	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we prepared this solution in the Slovenian Democratic Party with the authentic interpretation of the Bond Code, we were also guided by the fact that direct payments by subcontractors in bond law have not yet been established. They haven't even been established yet. If we lived in a normal country, in an honest country, we wouldn't have to enforce them at all. They should not be enforced at all. And that's how we live, I'd call it, in a country of geliptics, where help is allowed, I'd say a lot of things. And that's how it was for subcontractors to pay. I'm quoting the case. When the issue of not paying subcontractors has somehow arisen, as mentioned today, the Public Procurement Act has placed the condition that the main contractor may include those subcontractors who have paid all the obligations that do not have any claims to the main contractor. Everything's fine and fine. Now, if that were the case, I'd say, legally or academically, everything's fine and fine. But what happened in practice? The main contractor did not pay the subcontractor in the previous project. Then a new public order comes and tells the same subcontractor, yes, look, in the next project, and I'll pay you back, and now you're saying that we have those obligations for the previous project settled. Thus, subcontractors made false claims that all claims to the main contractor were paid, although they did not really have them. Then twice, for the second time, he did not pay them back, twice brought them around, because then the third time neither financial nor business conditions were enough to go on ice for the third time. That's what's been going on. In short, the case law is such and different, and this has already been tried by the Public Procurement Act at the time, but the practice has brought something else. Dear colleagues of the coalition, I very much appreciate your high academic education, knowledge and so on, but, hand us heart, practice is something else. Some legislative texts, laws, regulations have practical effects, but some do not. You need to be aware of that. Dear fellow, I have had this privilege and I have certainly seen the most construction contracts between all of us, but practice is something else. Today, we have come up with one solution that could help these subcontractors to some extent, in some small part. To a large extent it will not be, and it will not be, any judicial practice that will turn around overnight, but that it will be any basis for manipulation, exploitation and so on. Far, far from it. As for payment for the same work, see, it is necessary to understand what the temporary situation is and what the final account is. That's to be understood. No work shall be paid twice if it is within the framework of the amount of the final situation. Let's explain this to ourselves and not explain here that the work will be paid twice. Don't fool yourself with this, and let's explain it and so on. No work has been done to the subcontractor, even if the main contractor has already been paid the same work required by the subcontractor, take the final situation into your hands and then make a payment chain to the last subcontractor. You'll see that the job is not paid twice what you're saying here today. I absolutely agree that this postponement to the next reference now, I don't know, that you suggest the one, Desus and SD and so on that you have a wish and today you promise that in the next reference everything will be different and everything better, and today there was no solution. [[…]] There were only rejections of our proposal to try to solve the subcontractors' problem. There's no solution on the table today. I'm asking you how you're going to solve this problem, how you're going to solve it, how you're going to do it, what kind of action, what kind of law, and so on. Today, the solution is to help at least some of these unpaid subcontractors. I believe that the understanding of certain Members will only really realize that this proposal is good and that we are trying to help these subcontractors and that you will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u45	We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor. Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u46	Thank you, Vice President. In the final part, the government gets it, but apparently, as some colleagues have found before me, it is not interested in getting things done. I must say, some of the discussions have been very correct. In particular, I thank my colleague Verbic for his debate and understanding. I think there may be a rare one who has reviewed the matter and has also addressed this issue. Once again, for those of you who have explained certain things that do not stand — this authentic explanation of the basic article of the Bond Code does not change. The value of the payment is only up to the value of the contract, because this is already said in the basic article. All we are trying to do with this authentic explanation is to ensure that the courts, in the right way or otherwise, recognize the consistency of individual claims and the right of individual subcontractors to pay. Everything else remained as the Basic Bond Law states, or as this article makes possible with regard to the payment itself. However, it is a matter of fact that there are no legal practices in these cases and even if certain procedures have already been completed, they are concluded and this authentic interpretation does not affect them. Authenticity of interpretation affects those procedures under way and those which will still take place on the basis of this Article 631. I really do not understand Members that in cases where a matter does not work in legislation, I would be allowed to do so by amending legislation, it is said that although we know that one thing is wrong, that it is not implemented in the right way, we would leave this matter to me for some further future and thus still allow for some infringement or some problem in practice. I don't think this practice is a committee. Our attempt, however, was to give subcontractors the opportunity, by authentic explanation, that in proceedings that are clearly in court, it is not a matter for any proceedings that take place in the course of this procedure or process, to say that, for things that have a weight that have a verifiable act, situations, the courts may point to the fact that some recognition of consistency is nevertheless increased and defined as related matters within this basic contract and that, despite the fact that individual situations are already misled in these cases, the right of the subcontractor to pay the actual payment is taken into account, if the work has been done and is misled and is also evident in the proceedings in the court itself. It's just a matter of that authentic explanation. I hope that there is still reason to vote and that this proposal is supported and, in fact, allow some procedures to be completed more quickly and in particular, to be concluded for the benefit of the small subcontractors, which you all have pointed out.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u47	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing yes, so I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I feel that in some cases I may have been misunderstood, but there was no time for a replica. I would like to point out that the issue that is being addressed today is problematic, but the way we are solving it is such that, in this context, the Bond Code may threaten the principal contracting authority. Not the lead contractor, but the contracting authority. I'll tell you why, comrade Krivec. In particular, because it is possible that the subcontractor is not paid in the first situation, it is desirable to pay from the contracting entity any of the following situations still owed by the contracting authority to the principal operator, which means that we will put the contracting entity in a position where he will have to pay the subcontractor that money, the amount he had reserved for the operator. In short, none of you have answered this question here, how will this be resolved if the situation of the contracting authority deteriorates? Don't think I care about the client very much. The point is that if this situation gets worse for them to also initiate appropriate procedures, I am confident that in this case, given the interpretation offered today by this interpretation of the law, the authentic interpretation of the law, the Constitutional Court has said that the contracting authority does not have sufficient protection and will ultimately be unconstitutional. There's something else I can say. The very process of authentic interpretations, which we have already had in this mandate, I am convinced that it is wrong that this may indeed be a procedure which the National Assembly must use very exceptionally, because, after all, it is some kind of rape against justice that is supposed to be a separate branch of power. In short, I am convinced that there is a system by which the National Assembly can change a provision according to its content back, that it does not say that it brings disorder into the law and trust in the justice system and that we must avoid it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u49	I can't give you a replica, we should check in, so I give you the word mags. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u50	Thank you very much again, Vice President. I take this matter very seriously, as far as the content is concerned, whether I am talking to a respected colleague from my parliamentary group or whatever. Firstly, I think that, with this proposal from the proposal, Members must be aware not yesterday, but today or tomorrow. And the fact is that in the market, at least as far as construction is concerned, we have to admit that we are in some kind of expansion. It is also justified to expect that there will be an increasing number of such transactions by operators, subcontractors. On the other hand, we say that we attract foreign investors as contracting entities. And the fact is, let's not go blind and I think it's up to all of the debaters to see that there are difficulties in paying subcontractors. I believe when we have adopted the Public Order Act, that part of such weaknesses will be eliminated, but the market is functioning as it works. And I just want to say, the Bond Code already does not allow multiple payments for the same service. Here I am joining the debaters before me, a colleague who has pointed out that in such cases in subcontractors, we are literally in this process of control over the performance of works, in particular in some service or construction, we know the so-called situations that depend on all of these processes, whether they are monthly, quarterly or annual, followed by what is important, whether the work is carried out and this payment is made after these so-called temporary situations. The second is the final payment and it is perfectly understandable that no one is entitled. And here I am firmly in the position, and I believe that the judicial branch of power, if it comes to them, such cases, does not recognise any payment if payment has already been paid for various reasons. And we have nothing to debate here, definitely. For this reason, I say that the difficulty of providing subcontractors with some legal basis is legal and financial security for the future. This is how I understand the proposal by the proposer, and I don't care who filed it. My debate, which was a bit controversial with regard to the ZPS, is mainly that I did not want to politicise them, because their position is legitimate, but I am only in the position that in this case it is somehow on this legal theory, while acknowledging, on the one hand, that there is a case-law, on the other hand there is no case-law, but forgive me, for some subcontractor this is irrelevant, what the position is, it is important for him to receive payment for the service performed or on the part of the contracting authority, if in any event things get complicated and so they are looking for a judicial path. And here we, as legislators, have to go as far as possible against those structures that are on the market that really do their service, but do not get paid. And here I don't see why we have such different views. Finally, when we like to make such a reference and also have in our legal order a German legal order, many times on other subjects we touch on comparisons with the neighbouring state of Austria, all those we get to know a little bit, or those who live closer to the state of Austria, the Republic, I think we are united, in Austria there are no such problems. The contracting authority, which for various reasons does not pay the subcontractor, simply does not provide the services. As the so-called judicial or regulatory system is regulated, it is a duty for us to sum up their views. Therefore, I say that these risk groups on the market, subcontractors, must be protected. And if there is no other legal basis than what the applicant has put forward, I think it is right that this is also supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u51	Procedurally, Mr. Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. My friend Zorčič pointed to one point, and I will conclude by saying what my procedural proposal is. With regard to the protection of contracting entities, I hope that it has probably escaped with regard to the fact that we are not modifying any legal conduct, we are talking only about the mandatory interpretation of an individual article and the contracting authority is protected by the final situation, by the contract, and already the basic article says that only in this context can these recognised claims or the requirements of subcontractors be implemented. As for anarchy, if adopted, I also find it difficult to understand. However, I would ask my colleague Zorčič or Vice-President, or I would like to make a procedural suggestion that we obtain information, given that colleague Zorčič was very explicit in order to result in a double payment by subcontractors, I would ask if we could obtain information on how many subcontractors, how many subcontractors were paid twice in these proceedings, because this was seen by colleague Zorčič as a major problem. That's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u53	We have another procedural proposal. Mr. Igor Zorčič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u54	Yeah, look, we know it's a procedural abuse with my colleague Krivec. For the double payment of subscribers, because they will have to pay once to the main contractor and once again to the subcontractor. Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u55	I suggest we close the debate. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Thursday, 22 March, in the framework of the votes. I also interrupt the 26th item of the agenda. We're moving to 17. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LIVING PROBLEM OF YOUNG PEOPLE The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the group of 14 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, for the second time in this mandate, we have tabled a proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people, because, in our firm conviction, some youth organisations and, last but not least, young people in this area were not under SMC, SD and Desus' government, nothing to say that there was a very pressing problem in this area, namely, the first housing issue, or better said, that this area should be regulated or adequately addressed. It is true that the resolution on housing policy has been adopted in this mandate, but unfortunately it remains mostly a dead letter on paper, as well as all the commitments made in the coalition agreement. Not to mention how you were talking about the full life of housing cooperatives and other things. And since we want to open this question in the SDS, provide answers and also concrete solutions, we have already submitted the first version of the Youth Housing Act two years ago. At the time was somehow the basis for this my question to the Government: How many apartments owned by the Government through the Ministry are empty? We got an answer that there were about 430 at the time. And then we included in the law all these apartments plus the apartments owned by the Company for Bank Claims Management or the so-called bad bank. Well, and we wrote down that until the rental of apartments from a special fund, that is to say, at the time we proposed that all these empty apartments owned by the DUTB and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Housing Commission be transferred to a special fund of the Housing Fund and that young families and individuals who have not yet reached the age of 35 are entitled to it. These apartments would have been paid off on non-profit rents, and then after five years, they would have had the opportunity to buy this non-profit apartment, all the way to then paid rents, that is to say 60 rents, already counted at the purchase price. This is a proposal prepared by the then-infrastructure minister Mr Zvonko Černač during the second Janša government, but the then government, unfortunately, ended the mandate prematurely, otherwise this model would have been in force today. Well, at the time, in the debate by the coalition members of the speech, it was mainly about the fact that we cannot transport homes owned by a bad bank in this way, and in particular that all the apartments owned by the Housing Commission of the Government of Slovenia, ministries and so on, are largely one and the same thing, are not suitable for accommodation. On the basis of the discussions at the time and some new facts, a proposal is made, says the new version of the Proposal for a Law on the Resolution of the Housing Problem of Young People, where we propose only that, unlike previously, dwellings owned by a bad bank be exempted and that those vacant state dwellings directly under the Government be transferred to the Housing Fund, either through a commission, ministries and so on, which are suitable for immediate immigration. Of course, we maintain that young families and individuals who have not yet reached the age of 35 are entitled to rent apartments from the special fund. These apartments are transferred to the Housing Fund, the Housing Fund then makes a call. These are one of the conditions and, of course, it is also a condition that, in the event that applicants or applicants for these apartments are more likely to take into account also the property or social status, of course, to rent apartments to those who are less socially subdued. The proposal is well-intentioned and is only the beginning of solving the housing problem of young people. I believe that we can also improve, correct and, of course, follow other proposals that are likely to await a new government through the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u57	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u58	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Members and Members resubmitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a slightly amended proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people, as already tabled in July 2015. The current proposal for a law differs from the fact that the proposal excludes unoccupied apartments from the Banks Claims Management Company Fund. We would like to point out that the Government is aware of the accessibility of dwellings for young and young families and is addressing it in the context of the guidelines of the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, adopted in December 2015 by the National Assembly. The resolution thus foresees a number of other instruments and measures for a target group of young people whose proposer does not mention. In general, the proposal for a law is inaccurate and, as such, impractical in practice. It foresees that all unoccupied dwellings managed by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Public Administration will be transferred to the Fund, but the number is not clear and can only be concluded on it. The concept of an unoccupied apartment in the draft law is not defined and, according to the reasons given, it also covers the apartments that have already been allocated and have not yet been taken over by the beneficiaries and the dwellings that are in the process of sale. The terms of the lease and the intended sale are also undecided. The financial consequences of the law are shown incompletely and the cost of regulating housing would not be negligible. The draft law does not give rise to the provision of funds for the renovation and maintenance of the necessary dwellings under the Special Fund of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which shows that the law is not adequately prepared at the systemic level. The bill would have a negative impact on the state budget. The dwellings, which represented permanently unoccupied dwellings, have already been transferred to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The dwellings that remain and are in the administration of the Ministry of Public Administration are useful and are intended to address the housing issues of public servants, which also shows the full employment of the available housing fund of the Ministry of Public Administration. They are also owned by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior to address the housing needs of their employees and are mostly occupied. We would like to point out that, in accordance with the Housing Rules, there are also young people who, at the beginning of their careers and who are otherwise unable to resolve the housing issue, but who have to meet the conditions laid down in the Regulation for renting housing from this fund. Similarly, young people who are not employed in the state administration have the possibility of renting those apartments located outside the centres of the state administration where there is no interest in renting between the employees of the state authorities, the Police and the Slovenian Armed Forces. In this case, it is legal and, in fact, settled dwellings in locations where there is no demand by employees in the above mentioned bodies. Because of all the above, the RS Government cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u59	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u60	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Many countries are dealing with the housing problem of young people, especially during and after the economic crisis, when young people have found it more difficult to obtain their first job and, on the other hand, those young people who are employed have found it difficult to obtain a loan for the first time to solve the housing problem. These market trends, which are a key problem for young people's housing issues, we have managed to get better in the mandate. Unemployment fell from almost 130,000 in 2014 to less than 85,000 in 2017, and youth unemployment has halved in this mandate. Today, just the fact that the unemployment rate among young people has dropped significantly suggests that many will be able to resolve their housing problem. Nevertheless, we are aware of the fact that young people with the same social status differ from others because they are in a period of family creation, which is why the state has to have special attention to them. Slovenia has been committed for many years to providing housing to socially disadvantaged people in the form of renting non-profit apartments, where young people and families are preferred as a priority category of applicants. The housing problem is also addressed within the framework of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in accordance with its business policy, finances and implements the national housing programme, promotes housing, renovation and maintenance of housing and housing. It is not necessary to mention here that the role of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia in dealing with the housing problem of young people in 2012 has also been curtailed as the Public Finance Balance Act has interrupted the further implementation of the Law on National Housing Savings Schemes and Subsidies to Young Families for the First Resolution of the Housing Problem. The State may provide savings in the national housing savings scheme only under contracts concluded until the entry into force of the ZUJF-A. The proposer introduced a law in the National Assembly to help young and young families solve the housing problem, as he himself states. These are legally flawed solutions that regulate flat transfers from the Housing Commission of the Government of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and the Company for the Management of Bank Claims to the Special Fund of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, and then provide that the rental of dwellings from the special fund is justified by young families and individuals and individuals who have not yet reached the age of 35 as an incentive for the first resolution of the housing problem. In spite of its attractive title, the draft law does not solve the housing problem of young people, according to the assessment of the Modern Centre Party's Group of Members, but rather makes it more difficult to deal with conflict with other laws because of its imperfections and its consequent impossibility. The law does not determine what transfer of dwellings is intended to take place, since such a general term can be interpreted as transfer of ownership or transfer to management. The proposal for a law still does not define the concept of an unoccupied apartment, since, according to the explanation, it also covers the apartments which have already been allocated, but which the beneficiaries have not taken over, the apartments that are under sale and so on. The bill is also contrary to the recent amendments to the State Administration Act, which provides for the centralisation of the management of immovable property within the Ministry of Public Administration and contrary to the adopted State Property Management Strategy, as well as against the Law on Police Organisation and Work and the Regulation on the Management of Military Property. As a result of the proposal's state-of-the-art proposal, we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u61	Procedurally, Mr. Jan Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President. We can only talk in this House, for the first time, if we hear each other well, and for the second time, if we read what we are talking about. I suggest that, given that Zorčič is likely to have a word, we take some time either on a break or something else to read the bill we have proposed. For apparently he was wrong and was reading the previous proposal. Article 2 of the law, which we have proposed, states: "The Special Fund of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia represents unscathed dwellings from the Housing Commission Fund of the Government, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice." There is no mention of the Bank's Claims Management Company, as my colleague Zorčič mentioned. Why don't you read yourself a new bill because you've obviously read the old man? That's the first one. And since we are not yet listening, I have made it clear, Mr Vice President, that we have exempted the DUTB. It will be difficult to discuss this subject first if the Member representing the position of the largest government party has either not read this proposal or read the previous proposal. Something has to be done about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Mahnic. I propose that we listen to all the views of the groups of Members. I believe that Mr Igor Zorčič will be able to explain his views on the subject below. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on the Resolution of the Housing Problem of Young People, which is being adopted by normal procedure, which means that we have our first reading today and that we can make the law more fully up to date – given that there have been a number of comments in some positions. The right to housing is a fundamental human right recognised in several international instruments. The relevant housing policy is also one of the foundations of the economic development of the European Union, and a successful housing policy, particularly targeting young people, can have a major impact on local and regional economic growth. Although housing policy itself is not within the European Union's exclusive competence, many other policies have a direct or indirect impact on the resolution of housing issues. In the 1990s, the rental housing market developed in the direction of non-profit and commercial rental apartments. The Jębinski law allowed for the privatisation of social housing, and a market based on the legality of supply and demand began to be established. The 2000-2009 event showed that the market alone cannot solve the problem of housing. At the beginning of this period, the supply of market dwellings was relatively modest, between 2004 and 2007, when real estate and construction companies built massively for the market, it jumped and, in recent years, because of the economic crisis, construction and housing supply of new dwellings declined significantly. The sharp decline in demand left a significant number of uninhabited, uninhabited and incomplete dwellings on the market. The need for housing is demonstrated through more or less stable demographic movements and may be the result of fluctuations in the housing market. Slovenia needs a comprehensive national housing system that will deal equally with self-building, market supply of housing, public sector care and public-private partnerships. At the same time, the housing supply system must provide adequate housing financing mechanisms that will include all housing providers, the public sector, municipalities, the country, the business sector and, of course, the household sector. The national housing savings and credit system needs to be developed. Access to affordable housing is one of the priorities of the European Union. However, the progress report on the Europe 2020 Strategy emphasises that cheap and quality housing is a key factor in living standards and prosperity, especially for more vulnerable people. The availability of dwellings in the European Union countries is very different. Despite the consensus that the problem of access to housing across Europe is a major one, the definition of accessibility is the subject of national interpretation. According to Eurostat’s definition, the household is considered to be overloaded if the total cost of the apartment represents more than 40 % of the available income, where the costs include payments of interest on mortgage or residential loans and rental costs. The costs of water, electricity, gas and heating and all costs related to regular maintenance and insurance are also included. In November 2015, the National Housing Programme Resolution 2015-2025 was adopted by the National Assembly, which is one of the key documents to address the housing problem in the future and creates an active housing policy. The programme has adopted baselines to address housing shortages in locations where demand is the largest in order to increase the number of rentals, improve the energy and functional standard of the existing ageing housing fund and mobility of residents and increase the interest of investors in investing in housing in the public interest. The resolution points out that the legislation in force does not support the development of the rental market, in particular the tax and housing market, does not allow for balanced measures to establish an effective housing system. The resolution has already highlighted the need for change in this part. The fact is, in solving the housing problem, there are very limited young generations who are just creating a family. Their creditworthiness is still low due to the start of their careers. The fact is also that young people are less favoured by the housing fund, as it is the most common way to buy in Slovenia, with young people generally having lower incomes, while in the labour market they are faced with employment for a certain period or even in the forms of work. High real estate prices and poor access to financial resources make it difficult for young people to move to their own home. The purchase of housing is denied to young people due to the high prices and financial risk brought by the purchase of housing and long-term debt. At the same time, buying an apartment reduces mobility and increases costs in case of changed housing needs. However, it is important to establish specific arrangements for the provision of housing for young families and young individuals, both in terms of long-term rent and purchase or purchase of the first apartment. The Republic of Slovenia, however, has four housing funds within the executive branch, within the ministries, namely the Housing Commission Fund of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice. These apartments are originally intended to address the housing problem of public servants, mainly from a human resources perspective, but these apartments remain largely unoccupied. The proposed law aims to provide young and young families with the possibility of non-profit renting. The law thus proposes that up to 1. 6. 2018 Unoccupied dwellings from the Housing Commission Fund of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice are transferred to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Such transferred apartments in the Housing Fund would be intended exclusively for renting young and young families. We also propose in the law that young and young families have the option of buying their apartment after five years of living, with all paid rents counted as the buying-in price of the apartment. The adoption of the proposed law will also have positive implications for the state budget, as it will relieve the operators of unoccupied dwellings within the executive branch. In our parliamentary group, we will support the law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u65	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Today we are again considering the proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people, which was tabled in July 2015 with several differences. At that time, the draft law was rejected as inappropriate for further consideration. This text does not contain some of the solutions contained in the proposal at the time, such as this time there are no more unoccupied DUTB dwellings between solutions. When we read the proposed solutions, the question arises whether the proposed solutions are feasible in practice. The fund is to be moved to all the unoccupied dwellings of various ministries. It follows from the explanations that the applicant also considers those who have already been allocated to the beneficiaries to be unoccupied flats but have not yet taken over them. It also follows from the explanations that this concept includes dwellings that are still in the surrender process. We are also aware of the housing problem in the Desus Group, because we have a very specific attitude towards housing in our country. More than 90% of the dwellings are privately owned, which means that the state as such cannot and must not interfere with private property. It is precisely because of the lack of public housing that we adopted the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025 at the end of 2015. This particular attention has been paid to creating conditions to ensure the quality of stay for different target groups, i.e. for the elderly and the young. The projects already in place are being implemented. Maybe everyone isn't as fast as they want, but they're being implemented. The main role of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia in this national housing programme is to provide 2,000 additional dwellings, most of them in Ljubljana, Maribor and Kranju, through its own construction and cooperation with municipal housing funds by 2020. Measures to provide housing for older people and young people, as well as the Housing Community and Housing Association projects, should also contribute to addressing this problem. The plan also includes a change in the non-profit rent scheme, which would be replaced by a cost rent, and subsidies would be granted to cover the difference. In the Desus Group, we do not have a unified opinion on the appropriateness of the bill before us, so our vote will not be uniform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u67	Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u68	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Three Members and Seven Members of Parliament! Thank God another citizen is watching us on small screens. We all like to say that on the young, the world stands as our future and the mirror of our society. That's right. But it is young people today who are deprived of the basic good provided by our country in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution, which states in Article 78: “The State creates opportunities for citizens to get a suitable home.” The real picture is very cruel today. Young people almost get no job opportunities, if they are very lucky, can conclude a fixed-term employment contract or perform a leisurely job. The logical consequence of this fact is that they cannot obtain loans for the purchase of apartments and the market rents are high. Their future revolves around in a vicious circle, and it seems that they are becoming one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, and it should be the other way around. Christian Democrats always put the family at the forefront as the highest value of our stay. One of the basic conditions for it is the appropriateness of the apartment, and it is the State that must ensure that the young family that is on their feet is able to obtain an apartment under favourable conditions. In New Slovenia we welcome the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Although they do not respond at the moment to all questions about the implementation of the law itself, the correct answer to today's critical situation in this area is. In the New Slovenia Group, we ask ourselves: Is the country a good host? Does it properly manage real estate? And above all: Is the management and management of real estate economically? The fact is that we need quick action, quick solutions, although it is only a specific population of citizens, and although the issue of housing problems is also linked to other vulnerable groups. The resolution on the national housing programme 2015-2025, which we adopted in 2015, will not have the desired effects for a few years, although it foresees a number of similar moves as today's proposal, the construction of a residential community for young people, the provision of affordable rents for young people and young families up to a certain age, and the rental with a later purchase. We cannot deny that the resolution brings positive action, but the long-term depends on many conditioners and engages in solving the housing problem along with other vulnerable groups. Although in September 2016, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a business policy for the period 2017-2020, which set the goal of providing 2 000 new public rental apartments by 2020. If the target is achieved, at least a few housing problems will be solved. The draft law therefore proposes that up to 1. 6. 2018 Unoccupied dwellings from the Housing Commission Fund of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice are transferred to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. In our view, the proposal will solve the first housing problem for at least a few young families and young individuals. The applicant submits that out of a total of 434 apartments there are 219 for rent. Why not get them as a priority for young people, of course under certain conditions? While these are work apartments designed to address the housing needs of public officials and civil servants, this does not mean that they can be empty, unoccupied for a long time. If the State urgently needs them, then, as a good host, it should also give them in accordance with its human resources policy, but if there is no need to do so, it should transfer them to the Housing Fund as a vehicle for the implementation of the national housing policy. We know that many of these apartments are in poor condition because they are unoccupied and uncontained. We could serve our purpose if we today support the proposed solutions. In New Slovenia we are convinced that the country should take better care of its assets, but it appears that it is not the will. Everything is delayed for a longer period of time and is citing systemic regulation of the area, so it is always the most convenient answer not to be possible overnight. We will, of course, support the proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u69	The word is given by the Left Party. The position will be presented by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Rakrana of Slovenian Housing Policy is a rich privatisation typical of most Eastern European countries. From the 31% share of public tenants in 1990 to the year 2000 it crashed to only 3%. Privatisation has undermined the very foundations of public housing policy. Instead of ensuring that the state of residence provides only the conditions under which the needs of the population are to be met in the open market. Markets and businesses, of course, cannot and have no interest in performing social functions to meet social needs, but they follow purely profit-oriented motives. The bill that we are considering today states in the proposal itself that the market alone cannot solve the problem of housing care for the population. This finding is wrong. The market cannot solve the problem of housing care at all. It is the market that causes the problem of housing, in fact, because housing is redistributed among the population according to who can pay for the apartment, regardless of who needs the apartment. It is also incorrect to conclude that a significant number of uninhabited, uninhabited and incomplete dwellings remain due to a marked decline in demand on the market. This is not due to the decline in demand, but to various speculative investments in real estate and consequently to the extremes of inflated housing prices that can only be afforded by the richest and those for which banks estimate that they can repay the loan before they die. Thus, most residents today cannot afford an apartment. The bill on the solution of the housing problem of young people does not solve this situation in any way. Moreover, it allows even the gradual privatisation of several more apartments owned by the State. It is the housing of the Housing Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice. Overall, according to 2015 data, this is about 200 dwellings. This would be transferred to the Republic Housing Fund and state authorities would lose their homes to address the problem of public servants mainly from a human resources perspective. It should be pointed out here that even without the adoption of this law, public authorities could do so today if they considered that they no longer needed housing and that this had already happened in the past. The law is disputed at two points. As a matter of fact, the state authorities would have lost their housing for their employees, and the second would have transferred these 200 apartments to the state housing fund. For a long time, this has no longer fulfilled its basic function of providing housing needs for the population. Finally, this was seen in the Green Gage case, where luxury superstandard non-profit apartments were built for those who can afford their own apartment anyway and probably already have it. The fund often acts as a state in the country. The most obvious example of this is that the fund provides housing for rent. Only three types of rentals are known by the Housing Law: non-profit, free-market, and rent for office apartments. The Housing Fund, as a public housing fund, should provide housing for non-profit rents and rents for which it does not have any legal basis and the amount of rent is only slightly lower than the market. This is also the reason why we do not believe in Levica that the apartments that would be transferred to a fund with the law that we are considering would be primarily shared with socially disadvantaged families. These payments of market rents — such as bob beans and we call it marketable and not cost rent — cannot be afforded. Lawmakers sell to the public as a measure to address the housing problem of young people, the aim of the law is to provide young families with housing. Even if we assume that this will happen and that these apartments will eventually get socially endangered young families, there are about 200 of these apartments. This will cover about 3% of the needs for public rental apartments in Slovenia, so that the housing problem of young people will not be solved by the adoption of this law. If I can sum it up. The proposed law does not address the housing problems of young people, especially those who are not the most at risk, takes housing to public authorities or their employees and, with the possibility of redemption, constitutes a further step in the privatisation of state, formerly social housing, so we will vote against the bill. The housing problem of young people, as well as all others who do not have and cannot afford their own apartments, must be addressed primarily by the construction of public non-profit apartments, the promotion of housing cooperatives and the regulation of the market, which obviously does not work. In Levica, we have already proposed an amendment to the last government amendment to the Housing Law, which would increase the debt of public housing funds and thus encourage the construction of non-profit housing. The establishment of a legal framework to promote the establishment of housing cooperatives is something that we will undoubtedly have to resolve within the next mandate. Yesterday we voted on the amendment to the Housing Law, which we proposed in Levica, which we wanted to give municipalities the option of introducing the maximum rent. This would plague the growth of rents that most people can no longer afford today, and with the exception of the Left, there was no one for this marriage. Nevertheless, we will strive for such a measure and for other measures to regulate the housing market with a view to its final elimination in the future. Once we've all got a decent apartment, the market will die on its own. For housing must not be a commercial commodity, but something that is a fundamental human right.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u71	The text is by Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček and will present the position of the Group of Non-Related Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u72	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! The proposal for a law on the resolution of the housing problem of young people, tabled by the SDS Group of Members, will be discussed for the second time today, with a few changes. The bill excludes unoccupied dwellings from the Banks Management Fund, d.d. and shortens the deadline for the transfer of dwellings to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. At the time of the first investment in 2015, there was a heated debate on the poor housing policy of young people. To this day, this policy remains unchanged, so flawed. I believe that even the debate will not differ much from the first. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the proposal of the law, because we all agree that the problems of young people need to be solved, but not only talk about them. The housing problem is one of the biggest problems among young people. Those who decide to purchase the first real estate immediately encounter difficulties with the lender’s requirements. Are we even aware that the Republic of Slovenia is one of the countries where young people stay with their parents the longest? That is why it is our job to create good conditions for young people for a stable future, and we are simply putting off and putting off our problems. Apparently, some of their tasks are not taken seriously enough. Although the bill is incomplete in some parts, on the other hand it raises important issues, everything is also in progress to be settled and complemented. If the amendments and I were correcting government laws, we might as well do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u73	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Let me repeat our position, which, of course, favours this bill. I think that maybe right now, right before the elections, when we don't have a government with full powers, which is no disaster, and there's some phenomenon that we don't know, maybe without some coalition spones, at least coalition MPs can decide more freely. At least that's my opinion and my experience. The applicant lists the number of dwellings, namely 434 apartments, and of these 434 apartments, there are 219 for rent. The question of why young people should not be given priority is very logical. Of course, under certain conditions, not just that. While these are work apartments designed to address the housing needs of public officials and civil servants, this does not, of course, mean that they can be empty for a long time, i.e. unoccupied. Housing is one of great value, and since it is particularly difficult for young families to get to their homes, why not try to solve the housing problem with this bill, at least for some? If the State urgently needs them, then, as a good host, it should also give them in accordance with its human resources policy, but if there is no need to do so, it should transfer them to the Housing Fund as a vehicle for the implementation of the national housing policy. We know that many of these apartments are in poor condition because they are unoccupied and, of course, uncontained. We could serve our purpose by supporting these proposed solutions today. Here, in fact, Members should have young people, especially young families, in front of them and go to them. I don't know where the problem could be if we didn't go into this kind of solution, as proposed by the billmakers. We in New Slovenia are convinced that the country should take better care of its assets, but it seems that there is never any real will. Everything is somehow delayed for a longer period of time and it speaks out for systemic regulation of the area, so it is always the most convenient answer that nothing can be done overnight. We also understand this bill in the context of family policy and family policy as one of the key responses of the country to a truly poor demographic picture and projections of the population movement for Slovenia. About the fact that Slovenian society is the society that is the fastest in the European Union, we have been talking for a long time, we have statistics. We also know that the very fact that society is getting older very quickly is a huge fiscal challenge, but no one sobers up, no one comes with solutions. Well, no government is the one who should have answers to such challenges. [[…]] In New Slovenia we have identified three key areas that would have a decisive impact on parents' decision-making, yes, even for more children, because in this way, too, or in particular in this way, we would solve a very poor demographic structure or demographic picture. Someone said, "Yes, but the problem of ageing society is the whole of Europe." I don't care! I don't care what our country has to deal with. Our country. The fact is, for example, that if the population of the two million people has poor demographic indicators, this is something other than the fact that the 80 million people have poor demographic indicators. That's probably how much we understand the problem. On our part, these three identified areas that would have a decisive impact on parents’ decision-making for more children are: for the first time – values, for the second time – jobs and for the third time – housing. This is the issue we're talking about right now. We see our mission, our political mission, especially in changing the country's relationship with the family. I think we've had a relatively poor family policy so far. We cannot implement family policy through social transfers, family is not social, family policy must be something else. I do not want to talk about all the dimensions of family policy today, but today I particularly want to highlight this particular housing problem. Young families should finally be able, through the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which I spoke about earlier in terms of these service apartments, to make it possible for young families to come to their homes under favourable rental conditions, of course with the possibility of a later redemption, after 5 or 10 years, while the paid rents are included in the payment of the purchase by then. This is a very well-known regime, or the principle of rent to buy. The different housing fund should be provided for different periods of life which, through the Housing Fund or authorised housing cooperatives, would enable families to deal effectively with the housing issue in the light of their needs at different times. Colleagues and colleagues, there are many reasons for supporting the law that we are considering, namely the Proposal for a Law on the Resolution of the Housing Problem of Young People. As far as the New Slovenia Group is concerned, our support has been provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Zvonko Lah. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. In two days, we will discuss the problem of young people three times. Yesterday we met with the question of whether the Youth Council of Slovenia deserves to be a non-governmental organization, and this coalition said that the Youth Council of Slovenia does not deserve this. Tonight we will not even be able to vote on whether young people deserve their representative in the Economic and Social Council because this coalition said: “No, young people do not deserve to have a member in the Economic and Social Council.” We have before us a law on solving the housing problem of young people, a second attempt. Apparently, the majority of the coalition will answer again: “We are not interested in the housing problems of young people.” Let us look at the time when the coalition boasts about what it has done, the actual promises in the pre-election period, what they wrote in the first three months, drunk after winning, what they will do, and what the realisation of the coalition contract is two months before the elections. Youth area: "The Coalition will seek to strengthen control over the implementation of youth employment measures and to extend the duration of these measures. We will pay special attention to ensuring the conditions for access to the first apartment for young and young families." Next paragraph, housing cooperatives. Perhaps a sentence on youth employment and how this government is successful – of course, it is successful in the employment of young people, three quarters doing it in Austria and other neighbouring countries, half of which actually went to change their permanent residence and went to Austria and other promised countries. And I don't mean that because I have a case like this at home where my younger brother said that there is no opportunity for him in Slovenia. One of the conditions was that he had a brother who was a member of the wrong party and was an unemployable cadre and went with his belly behind the bread. Now he is successful not only in Austria, but somewhere further, and unfortunately for me, for the people of that country who have accepted his knowledge of the 4 diplomas. As for the housing problem of young people, today I have missed the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, because in the last three months they have had, I think, 2 round tables on how they will solve the housing problem of young people, but they have only talked about it. When it comes to having the courage to do something, the Members of the Social Democrats Group are neither in the House of the National Assembly nor are they in position. That is why I urge them to do what they say, what they promise, now that they have the opportunity to resolve the matter. We have heard from the Secretary of State that the number is not correct, that the problem has already been allocated apartments, financial consequences and so on. I am interested in: why does the Government have no exact numbers, whether it is really the Housing Fund that is responsible, but it does not tell you anything, and about the apartments owned by the State, the state of these apartments, or whether a certain part of these dwellings is luxurious for government officials or government officials who can afford apartments at a market and not at a non-profit price? And on the other hand, how many apartments are there where the wise owner or manager would probably be thinking in the direction or, for the first time, keeping them, if we keep them, or if we need to tear them down and build new ones or how much money we can spend for their reconstruction? I would very much like to receive this answer, because the bottleneck you have given me quote: “The law is not properly prepared at the system level” is once again a fluke that you probably have at each government meeting or at every coalition coordination when you have before you the law by the opposition. “The law is not prepared on a systemic level”, but only at this meeting of the National Assembly do we adopt non-systemic laws, an example, yesterday's Law on NGOs. The legislature says that this is a constitutionally controversial provision of the law, when one law also sets the rules and changes the rules in 20 other laws. Completely contrary to system law, however, there is a government coalition, when I see nothing, I hear nothing, I am on the right track to propose to the Constitutional Court which will decide. Not only will another law that will be resolved in the Constitutional Court in this mandate, but the Constitutional Court will have a lot of problems over the next few years, because this coalition adopts laws that are at the border or, as has already been confirmed several times already in breach of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. When I tried Madam Secretary of State, I got the feeling that it was working in that sense: nothing can be done, nothing can be done, nothing can be done, but pre-election times, and we leave things alone. Then the best thing to do is to go to the polls again and break the constitution and electoral legislation, and life will be better to win another government that cares about young people who care about the housing problem of young people who care about family policy to manage it. Because in these two days, we'll obviously get proof three times that this government doesn't care about youth issues. The fact that you're pleading for a legal flaw while we're at first reading is not serious. Even more so, because I think this is the first time we have introduced this law in 2015. We tabled a law prepared by the then Minister of SDS quota at the Ministry in 2012 and was prepared by officials, so it was probably prepared by similar officials, as they are now sitting at the Ministry. From 2012 to 2015 nothing, 2015 proposed law, footnotes: the law is non-systemic, throw out a bad bank. We do this, and two years later, the government says, "The law is not good again." In short, arguments of power without arguments of content why this law is not supported. What is the purpose of the proposed law; perhaps if someone has not even read the law that we have seen? It is important to provide young and young families with the possibility of non-profit renting apartments. I must say that in the SDS Group we have worked very hard to create a slightly different, a little wider, if you want, concept of what a young family is. Personally, I must say that I was happy to participate in this definition, because I think that in 2008, in the mandate of the first government, when the Youth Housing Act was being passed, when this matter was being resolved, we were dealing with this issue. At the municipal level, I proposed with my fellow councilors a special exemption from the municipal contribution, 50% discount, if you wish, for young families. We wanted to extend this concept of family as much as possible so that because of such or minor errors in definition, someone would not do so. This year we also met with a new decree at the municipal level, and we proposed the widest possible option that certain other laws advocate, and not least, the provisions also contain specific European rules on what a young family is. But you know, young people, and young families, and these coalitions, they're by no means contemporaries, unfortunately. I think the law is very good, I think the first extension is to solve what is called the first solution to the housing problem, to get rid of something, which obviously doesn't even know how much it has to do with these apartments and what the state wants to do with these apartments or through its ministries or through the Housing Fund. Therefore, it is appropriate to get rid of these apartments as soon as possible by receiving them from young families or young ones. After all, it is said that for at least a month I have not been in any way young anymore, because they say that over the age of 40 you are finally crossing the concept of young people, and in this case I must tell you my experience of first solving the housing problem. I think that not only should the country be more friendly to young people, in particular not only in changing legislation, i.e. laws, regulations and regulations, but it should work closely with local communities. Why am I talking about this? Because the local communities also have an important mosaic in the problem of solving the housing problems of young people, or by regulations or, as previously said, discounts on incomes or on anything else. And last but not least, the congregations have a lot of apartments. I was surprised to learn that our congregation has over 40 apartments in its possession, and now I am waiting for an answer from the congregation, who lives in these apartments, what are the contracts, what are the conditions for obtaining these apartments, and so on. In short, my intention is to get this law as soon as possible, and then by the following legislative procedures, we will also force the congregations to deal economically with dwellings owned by them. However, the most responsible would be the local self-government in this area by giving as soon as possible either a long-term lease with a possibility of redemption or an immediate possibility of buying these apartments. God forbid, it is likely that congregations for a large number of these dwellings do not even know what they are doing, what their condition is, or how valuable these apartments are. And to conclude why I think it is very important to combine both the country's component and the local community in the first resolution of the housing problem for young people. Although I have an apartment that I had the opportunity to buy, when my wife and I decided that it might be nice to offer our children more than just an apartment in the block, so to go to the construction of the house, but for five years after we own the land, we are dealing with the windmills — with national legislation, with local regulations and with all possible excuses in the sense that the Secretary of State had announced, nothing can be done, it can’t always be an excuse, whether the house’s inclination is wrong or something else is wrong, it’s always wrong, because someone asked that with bureaucratic obstacles does not encourage, but prevents solving the housing problem. [[…]] Therefore, this first review is a very good model for how matters need to be resolved. If any nomotechnical change is still needed below, I think that regardless of the electoral time of such a healthy farm of intelligence and sobriety in our heads, that even these potential nomotechnic obstacles, perhaps based on the Law and Law Service, we will resolve in another reading and make a law that will allow many young people or many young families in Slovenia to solve the housing problem as quickly as possible, as cheaply as possible. That's why I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u78	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! We have two main problems here. On the one hand, we ask ourselves whether the country is a good host and whether flats are justifiable, if damage is done to them, and on the other hand we have young people who are very difficult to reach their homes today. As a result, of course, it is appropriate to seek the best solutions to both problems in order to reduce damage to state housing while making it easier for young people to get their homes. Of course, in this way we will not solve all the problems that are unfortunately many. We know that we have a problem in Slovenia because we have fewer births per year, but at the same time the youth is moving abroad. Then how can we expect to improve the demographic picture in Slovenia? How can we expect to create jobs with added value, but if the most educated young people leave with a belly for bread, of course, look for experience while also finding more opportunities abroad? All the statistics also tell us that young people are very late in moving away from their parents – but I do not agree that they have to move out at all costs, because I think that cohabiting for generations can be good for all, but, of course, it is not possible for more families to live together in some smaller blocks. If we want to do something for demographic policy, for young people to stay at home more quickly to start families, then the solution to the housing problem is certainly one of the great priorities that we should take very seriously. We know that many young people today do not get a job for an indefinite period of time, that there are fewer and fewer employees for an indefinite period of time, which makes it impossible for parents to rent loans, and unfortunately, parents do not always have the opportunity to help their children more. Those who have this opportunity certainly do not wait for the country to help, but they help their children by themselves as much as possible. When we hear data that about 10,000 children are born in Slovenia every year to restore the nation normally, then we certainly do not have the pink situation in the future. That is why we should do our utmost to keep as many young people at home as possible, to enable them to have children, of course those who want them, and I know that many want them, and unfortunately, they are hampered by unattainable housing, so that they do not become more independent. Years ago, when I was also a member of the government itself, we also tried to transfer military housing to the property of the municipality and other facilities, so that I do not know how many of these apartments, how many of these buildings, which were not transferred or destroyed, are not intended for citizens who could be used more usefully. Unfortunately, I do not have this information, but I think that there is still an unresolved situation in this area or that there is still something else to be done. When I meet our emigrants, especially those from Argentina, many want to come back to Slovenia or not, because this is the third generation, they want Slovenia to do more for repatriation, so that they can get some basic option here. These are usually very large families who are not afraid of life. However, to get to a country they love — they love Slovenia, so they also learn Slovenian — but not to have the basic conditions, of course, is a great risk. Therefore, even here the Slovenians could do more to re-immigration these families, who know Slovenian, who share the roots with us, and our values, who want to be here, do not have a chance. Of course, these state apartments cannot solve all these problems, but this is also a possibility for them to do more in Slovenia to have young families, to have more births, to have fewer young people move abroad and to have a better future for the people. When we hear how many educated young people there are today some data, how many doctors have moved away, for whom the country has financed more than 10 000 euros for their education, we will now benefit from this by some other countries, which provide housing for this educated youth, then we see how much damage we are doing to ourselves, what harm this is to the nation. I'll support this marriage. Of course, it does not solve all the problems, but one possible solution is indicated for at least a limited number of families, young people, who would also get their first home in this way, so I will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Bojan Podkrajšek. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Yesterday, we had the law of the Left on the agenda, where, according to their country, it was intended to restrict or give municipalities the right to restrict market rents of dwellings. Today we have here a proposal for a law on how to rent those extra-empty apartments owned by ministries so they don't stand empty and they're against it. Why? I don't understand. They may expect that in the next term there will be as many as the SMC that they will need for their people. Otherwise, as I have discussed on the committee itself, in Slovenia there are between 170 and 180 thousand residences available. These are free dwellings or residential units in large residential homes, where one pensioner lives with a low pension or two low-income pensioners who barely maintain their houses, which were built about 40 years ago or even more, when they all built apartment houses — floor, floor and attic for their children, I don’t know, for the next 100 years, but now they are alone. I told the case in Ljubljana how a pensioner with 500 euros in a big house, 40, 50 years old, barely lives and only warms up one place because otherwise she can't survive. How much is that? How would we put this on the market, including for young families? We don't have any organizations that should be at the level of municipalities or countries that would help these people get both tenants and arrange contractual relations and somehow protect these people who are old enough to help themselves. We'd have saved a lot of things. Yesterday's law, which would give municipalities limited rent, leads to this direction so that municipalities could bring assembly houses for young people to the building sites and eventually get a barracks settlement, as in large European cities, and also down through the former republics of Yugoslavia. And even if we were to go around Ljubljana, something like this would happen. I think that conditions should first be aligned with those which they have abroad. In fact, if a young educated man goes to Austria, he gets a job there, he gets a parcel, he gets a loan, and in six months he has a housing problem solved. An example not far from the Slovenian border, in Austria, for example, it is open for engineers, it pays 3,000 euros and 800 euros for us, for a certain period of time. Why are the parcels that are now available to us – FURS published an example of the promised municipality and calculated that the value of the communally unfurnished building land is EUR 120. 120 euros, that was officially said on TV. In Austria, 30 euro is municipally equipped in the vicinity of Graz. Why?Oh, my God! Did anyone ask? How can two young people with, say, an average Slovenian salary buy a 40 grand plot and then pay for the house, I don't know, 200 grand? How much time will you pay?Oh, my God! I think those days are over, the goal of a young couple or a couple to build a house within 15, 20 years. Now the times are over. Those had a job for 8 hours, from six to two, and then they could focus on the other, and now, if a young man wants to build a career, he has to devote 100 percent to it alone, not to throw another one in the middle of the afternoon – as one presidential candidate. These times are over! Young people think differently. If we're already in a situation that's different than in neighbouring countries, more developed, there's not so many weekends, weekend houses, there's not so many big houses, 250, 300 square meters, there's not going to be, but if we've come to this situation that we have, I've calculated on a quick basis, 170 thousand such housing units, if every 40 square meters, and it's worth 400 square euros, we come to 2 billion 800 euro assets that aren't active – why isn't? On the other hand, apartments, rentals, luxury are built, perhaps for the children of those Slovenian rich people who can afford it. Why do we have such a policy? We used to have a housing cooperative, but we got material from a reduced tax, that at least something was going on. It's not like that now. Now, I think we should have cooperatives that would help people to put what they have at their leisure, to rent, and besides a small pension, they could tap in some of the rents so they could afford something. Why can't anyone see that? We had a basic law on space regulation, ZUREP-2, which is no better than the previous one, only worse. Although the construction law is better, we will see how it will take effect on June 1st. When we ask administrative units what will happen now with the legalisations and how this will happen: “Until it is valid, we will not deal with it”, they say in administrative units. But this date is fast approaching, it'll be more like an election. We don't do anything. On the other hand, we cry! I think you should ask yourself, go to the field, you should come out of the field with information, and then you should accept maybe not so much like it, but useful laws. Today, it is beneficial that what is failing and owned by the state or ministries no longer perish and be put on the market for good. If not the other one, it would be maintained so that it would not continue to fail so quickly. You know what an empty apartment is, an empty house, how quickly it goes down, at least those who have some experience. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support this law to save at least a few young families. Of course, if the government doesn't know how many apartments it takes for its people, I think that over time, too, those people working in the state administration will have to cut down on the ministries and there will be some more housing for renting for young people. Because they're too big, unless we're going to adopt a law like that for police officers or for war veterans who gave half their health to the country, we finally saved some of them. But I don't think we can solve government officials like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ms Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I would focus on the debate of honourable Member Tomaž Lisca and reply to what he asked. My statements regarding the fact that the number of dwellings is unknown do not refer to the data available to us, but mainly to the inconsistencies arising from the proposal for a law. The proposal speaks of unoccupied dwellings, but what this term means is not defined in the law itself. In view of the reasons for the proposal, this concept also covers the apartments which have already been allocated to individual beneficiaries but have not yet been taken over and the apartments sold. However, to give some figures, I would say that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has 3 000 312 non-profit apartments, which are in 118 municipalities owned by the Fund or are owned by the Fund, that the MJU manages 501 dwellings, of which the Ministry of Defence is not permanently occupied, that the Ministry of Defence manages a thousand 24 apartments, of which 61 are on sale, and 14 are in the tender for allocation and 13 have already been allocated, the Ministry of Internal Affairs with 636 dwellings, of which most are occupied. In particular, I would like to point out that at the Ministry of Public Administration, following a decision by the Government, which says that 279 unoccupied dwellings have already been transferred to the Ministry, 123 of them have been transferred to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and some to the municipalities. Of those who were transferred to the congregations, 26 were assigned to young families. In particular, I would like to point out that the housing of the Housing Fund or of the municipalities is transferred only when the issue is fully land-based, it is considered to be clean. It is only then that the congregation or the fund takes over this apartment and allocates it further. Before that, things need to be arranged in a land register, and this is done by the ministry that has an apartment in management. In particular, I would point out that those apartments that are on sale are in particular those where it is found that it is not appropriate to correct matters because the costs are too high and the purchases are fully re-initiated for residential purposes. And something else, in fact, those apartments are also, at least the Ministry of Defence notes such as they could also be allocated because someone who is employed there is not interested in this in such locations, that even other natural persons are not actually interested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnič, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u84	Thank you, Vice President. It's hard to listen to what the secretary of state says. It appears that there are no arguments and that there are literally reasons why this law should not be supported. If someone doesn't know what an unoccupied apartment means, I think it's sad. Whether you are being misled or misled, you should therefore write to me in Article 2: The Special Fund of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia represents unoccupied dwellings that are not in the sale process or have not yet been allocated to the tenants. Well, if you want such a text, no problem, confirm in the first reading and accept the amendment in the second reading. For all those who, together with the Secretary of State, are now in the opinion of the Government, signed by Mrs Lilliana Kozlovich – but she will sign everything without looking at it, we have seen when General Alan Geder's Chief of Staff was renamed to a woman with the wrong name, with the wrong last name, with the wrong act, and that is it. If someone doesn't know what an unoccupied apartment means, then let him tell me, please, where he lives, what apartment, what house. If the apartment has already been rented and the tenant has not yet taken over, this means that the apartment is occupied and does not fall under this category. It is also clear that the apartments that are already in the process of being sold will not be tolerated. I don't know. Does every thing in this Slovenia have to be written, every word defined, every term defined? [[…]] People aren't stupid, people understand. But if you don't understand the bureaucracy of the second and third leagues, I'm sorry. This is not my problem, this is not the problem of our party which has proposed it, but even less is the problem of citizens and citizens. In Slovenia we already have more than 20,000 regulations, just every thing defined, amassed to the end, and you want in fact, a law that can be resolved in several articles, precisely because of these bureaucratic nonsense and excuses another ten articles. You, Madam Secretary of State, are obviously not a practical man. You're obviously -- I don't know where you've been before, because I haven't read your resume, but you are -- you're thinking as much in this bureaucratic machine as you can no longer think logically and you're not looking for any concrete solutions, practical, if I may say so. And it's not just in this case, it's already been through the entire mandate. You've brought this country together to an end! Law on the law, regulation on the law, regulations for the entire army — what? Does every single thing really have to be prescribed? Healthy farmers in this country have long been no longer in public administration, but in rural areas, where it is, it is not possible with just the laws you propose and accept. Every single thing has to be prescribed. Let’s go to the street and ask people, “What’s an unoccupied apartment for you?” Let's go ask them, "Do you think that an unoccupied apartment is an apartment that has already been handed over to someone but has not yet taken the keys?" I don't know, well. Please tell me you do not support the proposal because it was proposed by the SDS, and this is it. It is interesting that only Members of the SDS and New Slovenia speak. I don't know, I think there are three more, four to the end of the debate, none of the coalition MPs are answering, the Social Democrats -- they're not in there, they haven't had a position. But for the Social Democrats, for the party that's housed in a stolen villa, I believe that housing issues are not a problem at all. At least the second position of Mrs Porotat was about the words written here: “Are the solutions proposed feasible?” she said. [[…]] She also said that some Members would support the law, some not, in short, that there is no single opinion on this law. But I can tell her immediately whether the solutions proposed are feasible. Of course they are! Of course they are. And look what you write in the government's opinion, and that's when I said that Mrs. Juliana Kozlovich will sign everything without even reading it. See what you wrote: "The adoption of the proposed law would have negative financial implications for the state budget. Management of the Office of the Ministry of Public Administration is not an activity that generates loss.” Now someone tell me how managing apartments that are unoccupied, which are empty, which is just the cost of amortization and other things, is not a cost to the state! If you own an apartment, there are fixed costs, if you have a tenant, he pays those costs, plus rent, if you don't have one, and you have to pay – how come there's no costs? Please give me the last paragraph on page 5 to explain the first four lines – that the law would have negative financial implications for the state budget and that by managing apartments there is no cost of even profit, as you wrote here, of income. I don't know who wrote this, Mrs Kozlovich just signed it, but you obviously wrote at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Let someone explain to me how it's possible that there's no cost with an apartment that's unoccupied, that's empty. Unless you have some of your own formulas. That's the first thing. And what Mrs Porotat said is whether solutions are feasible – yes, they are because they are specifically defined in a law that has seven articles, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we advocate a lean and effective country. We have already announced that for every law, for every regulation that we will adopt, two will be repealed. This was adopted last May at the congress, and this is also our pre-election promise. Because there are plenty of laws with 100, 150, 200 or more articles to be adopted just because every matter needs to be defined. And laws in terms like those used to be car stickers, such as helmets, such as small-day plates for each child's bicycle, so that someone deserves to be charged to taxpayers or to citizens who are users of services defined in such stupid laws as you accept under this government, and also those already existing ones in this sense. So the first thing is to look at which apartments belong in the category or we can define them as defined by the law. Apartments owned by the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice, which are unoccupied, are said to have not already been surrendered or not sold. If you don't understand it, it's because of you and anyone else that makes it clear to me that you and the amendment will know what an unoccupied apartment is. And then what? It looks like it's suitable for moving in. Who here talks about any renewal, any reconstruction, to be the cost of the state budget? “Which are suitable for immediate accommodation”, now the apartments that need to be renovated, the adaptations that we discussed in 2015 when you said that some of them are really inappropriate for moving in, we do not transfer such apartments under this law to the Housing Fund. So this solution is feasible. So we're looking for apartments that meet these criteria, and we're transferring them to the Housing Fund. What's impossible here? And then we move on. What about these apartments that have been transferred to the Housing Fund? There's a call. Again, the invitation to tender must contain the conditions which are rewritten in this law. These are young and young families and individuals and individuals who have not yet reached the age of 35. I hope that it is not as much a problem as it was before that it should still write inside what a young family is, what an individual is, and what an individual is. Well, given that you obviously have the basics, you're not clear. Next we write, even write, so it probably wasn't here because we wrote about what a young family is: a community of both parents or one of the parents with one or more children or adoptive parents, with parents or at least one of the parents not over 35 years old in the calendar year of the public appeal to the Housing Fund. This housing fund is the one that determines the fulfilment of these conditions. What's impossible here? The Housing Fund can determine whether, on the basis of the criteria given, by clearly identifying what a young family is, what an individual is, what an individual is, and what an individual is, by clearly defining how much a maximum age can be in the year of the tender. What's impossible here? And paragraph 3 of this Article: Young families have priority in assigning housing to individuals who have not yet reached the age of 35. That is to say, if a family is applied, it has priority over an individual. And also: young families have the advantage of those who are in a poor social situation. Again, what's not clear here? If more young families apply, those who have a poor social status have the advantage. It doesn't just say that it's fair, it's solidarity. And: in the event that the number of vacant homes is sufficient, individuals who have not yet reached the age of 35 will also run for them, and those who are in a poor social situation will again have the advantage. Thus, if young families apply so much that they remain free or remain in line, then we can go to individuals and individuals under the age of 35 who have applied, taking into account the income, income and property of the applicants and their family members in determining the social situation. And when the Housing Fund determines whether those who have applied meet the conditions, a scale is made for those who meet the conditions, who are more eligible and who are less dependent on social status, and then these apartments are handed over. After five years, however, they also have the possibility of buying this apartment, with all 60 rentals paid in those five years already counted as a redemption price. Again — for the first time, what is not clear here, and for the second time, why would this not be feasible? You are obviously underestimating the Housing Fund because if any of the things in this law are not explicitly defined, I hope you do not have to write in here yet, what is the rent price for each apartment or what is the redemption price. This is a matter of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. This is where you refer to the green grove. I went to watch now, these are apartments of 350 thousand euros ahead. What young family can afford such an apartment except for the sons and daughters of some first-class citizens in the Republic of Slovenia? The others can't. I'm sorry. And not then write about some green groves when we know what the prices are. It has been said, and I agree with that, as my colleague Lah said, and that is the essence of the problem, we have a resolution of the housing programme by 2025. But do you know what the problem is with this resolution? To translate all concrete solutions, including for the field of young people, in the years 2022, 2023 forward. In short, under this government you have written a program to be carried out by the next government and to rule after it, and you have washed your hands beautifully. If that government does it, you will say, "We wrote it to them in a resolution." But if they don't, they'll be guilty, and you won't be guilty. See, if you had concrete solutions, if you had the right solutions, you would have started with these solutions already in this mandate. All you've done in four years is that you've adopted a resolution, a paper that defines certain goals, or dates or yearbooks, but nothing was made. The most interesting thing was when in the position of the Modern Centre Party it was said: “Yes, the economic situation is improving, fewer young people are unemployed and they will be able to buy apartments.” I wonder if any of the SMCs can answer, in their pre-election programme for early elections in 2014, you wrote that young people will have favourable credits on banks to buy their first apartment, I am interested in what was done and what are these favourable loans that you announced in 2014. What are the rural measures, in the area of agricultural policy, where you talked about how you will encourage young farmers to move on, while the average age of the farmer on Slovenian farm rose during the time of the government of Mira Cerar? These are the specific questions that we expect concrete answers to. And you wrote it down specifically. There's no doubt here. But doubts are whether something was done or not. Please clarify these doubts, because otherwise these will be no longer doubts, but the claim that nothing has been done. “Unemployment has fallen from 130,000 to 85,000” nicely and well, but say that out of these 135 thousand 10 thousand you have employed in public administration and 8 thousand young people have moved about a year from the Republic of Slovenia, because there is no prospect here because of the policy you are leading, because of non-action and because of the rejection of the measures we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party. No Government or any other party in this mandate has not proposed so many laws directly in the field of youth issues and proposals for the resolution of this issue as the Slovenian Democratic Party. Not only a housing problem, a problem with scholarships, a problem with traineeships, a problem with a dual school system or apprenticeship, if you want directly, a problem with promoting participation, these were all solutions, brought to your table. But since you said the matter wasn't systemic, and you haven't brought one systemic thing in four years, today is the situation as it is. And young people will still be evicting from our country, which, Madam Secretary of State, is direct damage to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, depending on how much they invest in a young person through school, in his education process, and then after school he goes abroad, works there, pays taxes and full of state treasury countries other than Slovenia. But here's the financial damage, and there's the negative financial consequences, not if you give unoccupied state apartments to someone who pays you rent and they cover the costs. I don't know what's stupider if I've heard in this term than if there's no cost with an empty apartment. I'm sure it's one of the dumber statements and claims. I think that this law could even go through, given that the support of unrelated Members, by the Slovenian Democratic Party, by the New Slovenia Group, if calculated, this is a total of about 30 votes. Given that there is no uniform opinion in Desus, but if we are optimistic there we expect about five votes, it is 35. Then I am saddened by the opinion of the Left Group, with their 6 Members then we are there at 41, 42 Members, which I think is enough to adopt this law, but the Left Group is here specific. A lot of people have spoken in this mandate about housing problems in Slovenia, how everything is wrong, how nothing works, what good would it be, but what is the difference between SDS and Levi? They're just criticizing and proposing nothing, no solutions. For the second time in this mandate, we propose a concrete solution to the housing problem of young people. We have not written anywhere that this will solve the housing problem of young people, but this is the first step if we want to move things in a positive direction. If this proposal were to come to life, then we could also talk about other apartments, including the DUTB apartments and so on. And I am truly saddened by this destructive policy of the Left, because I am sure that by their votes this proposal could be put into another reading, and there we can correct it with the definitions that they will understand at the Ministry what an unoccupied apartment means, and with what other suggestions of those who have truly well-intentioned and well-intentioned opinions that something should be done for young people, in this particular case, in the area of housing problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u86	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! As colleague Jan Mahnic said, for the second time in this mandate we are talking about the housing problem of young people in the Republic of Slovenia. I would suggest to all, especially you, the distinguished Secretary of State, more will and energy to this law. As long as we have been in the previous law all day — I think that there is rarely a mandate where the opposition would have proposed so many bills — I do not think there has been a mandate where the coalition would have fought so much for every bill that individual laws are not good. I think that there should be one gratitude here and that this coalition should take advantage of the entire mandate, which is slowly ending. But of course, every law we propose I am pleased that this law has been particularly addressed by one of the younger Members of this National Assembly, which is very consistent with the topic of the law. [[…]] I would touch the real estate owner in Slovenia, that's the country. The Minister of Public Administration, your co-worker, I have asked a question several times, because when we walk through Slovenia, it is found that several buildings owned by the state are empty, but in addition to these facilities are private objects, and in those facilities the state pays dearly the rent, that is one segment of the master. Throughout my term of office, the Minister confirms that he holds this, but that much has already been done to make sure that this is no longer happening. It's about the master, the state. Today we are talking – colleague Mahnic has pointed this out many times, I think we all understand here in the National Assembly and also those who accompany this meeting – about dwellings that are not occupied. Since the client Desus, I think you would be particularly interested, this was also detectable, have a sense of what housing means and how young people get to this apartment. [[Incomprehensible]] And when I spoke on the one hand about those facilities that the state does not use, paying expensive rent to the private, we are talking here today about dwellings that are unoccupied. I spent six years alone at one of the housing companies in Slovenia, and I have to say what it means, one empty apartment in one of the buildings, just one empty apartment. This is certainly a huge cost for the owner, but now it does not matter whether it is a country or a private one, and it is an additional burden for all those who live above that apartment, on the left and on the right also under the apartment. So the fact that an empty apartment does not cause financial consequences never holds, does not hold, and will not hold back in the future. We all know what it means if the new apartment or house or apartment in the block is brand new, and it's one year empty that someone's not breathing in this apartment, what's going on with this apartment. So I am in a bad mood, when on the government side, on the side of the ministry there is this great resistance to this bill, which is certainly a good follow-up to the second reading. If there was any will with you, the distinguished Secretary of State, at the Ministry, your Minister, the Government, fellow Members of the National Assembly, to be able to upgrade enough so that this law could be good in the second reading I will never claim that what we are preparing in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group is the best, but what Comrade Mahnic has proposed today on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party is certainly a good way to confirm it, and I call upon all colleagues and colleagues, in the first reading, and to upgrade it between the first and second readings, to make it even better when we discuss it in the second reading. [[…]] Most of the time before the elections, we talk a lot about young people, and many of them are forgotten during the term. We detect the young when they cross our border when they close the door. That's when we detect them. Which means we gave them the most modern kindergartens, primary school, high school, college, and then we're sad many times when they leave. Not now, the Secretary of State, you or your colleagues on the left and right, will blame us for all this, but today's bill proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is one segment for our thinking about how young people would stay in the country, and that those who stay here would live easier, and one segment for those who listen to us. I mean young people here. Despite the end of this mandate, we have heard this morning that some things should be done by those who will follow us into the National Assembly — such thinking and such talk in the National Assembly is quite irresponsible. The fact is, in Slovenia we have been finding for several years that we have very few births. There's a lot of segments here why young people don't make decisions. One of the segments is certainly a housing issue. Here we are, here we are digging in one place, looking for excuses how something can't be done, and even a handful of some farmer's logic we don't know how to enter into some segment that would be better for young people. On the other hand, I don't think I'm going to be misunderstood, it's someone who comes into our country, and we step in and we sort things out, and we're afraid that by chance we haven't translated any words wrong. When it comes to our citizens when it comes to our facilities, because these objects are neither mine nor yours nor yours nor yours nor yours, this is our common good of the Republic of Slovenia, and we are looking for such and different excuses. I think people are going to get tired of this. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we propose one law, which, I repeat, is a good extension, that you also help to upgrade it, that it is only good for the Republic of Slovenia and for all young people living in this country. If we start to step up these steps a little more vigorously – and again, I call on the Secretary of State, let us put a little more energy into this law as well as into all the other laws that we will still be dealing with – this is, of course, an important step for the development of Slovenia and, above all, an incentive for our young people. That every day more young people will be born, girls, boys, and that more Slovenian families will remain in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very nice greeting from me. It is a very clear fact that, today in the Republic of Slovenia, as far as solving the housing problem of young people is concerned, we fail or we do not solve this problem to the extent that we deserve it. However, I would not repeat all these discussions, which are constructive, which are good, which are justified and so on. The fact is, from time to time, which is now with us and before us, the actual number of dwellings is decreasing, and the number of rental apartments is decreasing because the new ones are not even being built. I know the strategy of the Republic Housing Fund, which is under its conditions when building with local communities, I would call it, an unfriendly investor to local communities, which is why municipalities do not choose to build together with the Republic Housing Fund because its conditions for municipalities are unfriendly. In short, we keep this segment from making it impossible for young people to get a new apartment, a rental apartment, and even less ownership. In this segment we're actually really sad because look, today is a situation other than what they were, I don't know, 30, 40 years ago. If you came into a larger economic society for your first job, you relatively soon got to your apartment because then the growing companies had their own apartment fund. In fact, in the main cases at the time, it was not difficult to get to the apartment in most cases. Even those young people who were first employed or found their first job in that economic society. It was a back then system that had this housing problem, I'd call it, solved. All these companies had their own housing fund. But today it's different. Today, we find that we have unoccupied apartments at the state level, that we have unoccupied apartments in the department of certain ministerial departments, and that we do not give ourselves an opportunity to give it to young families. If there is one ministry, I don't know, the Ministry of Defence has planned to strengthen its military power in five years and to offer housing to all its employees, the Housing Fund will build 500 apartments in those years, if this facility needs them. But he doesn't need them because they're empty. They're empty! Nobody wants to go to work today, not even if they give him an apartment. He won't go! He won't go! We've got an empty apartment. For all the party colleagues who are sitting in here, I have a good suggestion that you will not now promise what you will do for young people, you will not have to make any promises, and you will only support this law and you will say: “Look, we have proved by actions that we care for young people.” But you can keep all these promises, which you will now make for the next two months, how much you will do for young people and so on, and how much you will do. Just support this measure, which gives young people the opportunity to get to their homes, and you can save all those promises. Things are important. And here we are, in the Republic of Slovenia we are tochi, nothing can be moved with us. There, economic social damage is done because state-owned apartments are empty, and so on, costing the wider segment, and to offer these apartments to young people with a flexible response. Oh, no. “No” Not that it is not possible, it is not willful, or those officials who prepare these documents are thinking so hard that the easiest thing to do is not possible. That third level official at this department, he'll say, but that's not possible, but it's from the Ministry, I don't know, for defence, for internal affairs, for justice and so on. That's the problem. There is no flexibility and no adjustment to today's times. Today’s young people, even if they are both employed, if they both have jobs, today have a minimum chance to solve the housing problem. If your parents don't help you, and so on, if there's no basis here. If they are two young people today and both with jobs, they hardly have the option. You almost don't. Or tell me a solution and a measure how two young people can – of course by employment, but at the beginning, we know, with very small wages, even creditworthiness is not enough to solve any purchase of a used apartment or whatever. The price of rent also increases considerably and also prevents the financial survival of two young people. This is our proposal, which is concrete, which is quite simple. Things are very simple! Don't tell me you can't do that. This is all true, but it is only necessary for three officials to have the will to know those three documents in the right direction. It's just, it's a simple thing. Please support this law and save yourself all those promises of elections what you will do for young people, and we will do a lot in Slovenia for young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! On the table, we have one concrete proposal for solving one problem that touches young people on the housing problem. There is also a fairly simple bill on the table, which attempts to solve at least one part of this issue in seven, eight articles. Most of you have discussed much more about what needs to be done in this area of housing in Slovenia. The fact is that we have adopted a resolution on housing construction in the Republic of Slovenia in Parliament, but no concrete commitments have been made since then. That is how this experiment, which we propose to tackle the housing problem of young people, is now the second time at the seats of Members in this National Assembly. For the first time and for the time being, when we are introducing this law, there is a lot of talk on your part about the fact that this is not the most systematic approach, that it partially solves things, that it does not solve all the matters in this area, and so on – we have not even talked in the material itself about the fact that this is a law that will solve everything. The law simply refers to one part that we see in our parliamentary group that can be solved by a fairly simple approach, and that is why the articles are also quite simply written, as the proposaler has already explained. I hope you also listened to those who may not have been in the hall. And it's very easy to write down. To complement and improve each thing, of course, we did not propose that this law should be adopted by any urgent or reduced procedure, so it is in the first reading that you have the opportunity to supplement it, to give better solutions. However, from that address that I would like to refer to the law, I think it covers everything that is necessary. That, of course, a diction may be made more clearly or more eloquently correct if anyone wants to. However, we cannot always agree to a marriage, and the position of the coalition is always that it is necessary to provide comprehensive light on the issue and write a law that will solve all individual details. This law, as I said, saves only one segment, and these are the apartments owned by the state, if we put it simply, or within all the ministries that have these apartments available for their needs, and these are the apartments that they do not need at this time or in the long term. The proposal is to transfer them to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and give them priority to address the housing problem of young people. I hope we all understand that. Furthermore, the law divides the conditions under which this can be done, who is entitled to it, and also gives all these tenants the opportunity to accumulate all these rents within a five-year period within the meaning of the buying-in option and would also be considered a prepayment for the purchase of these apartments if they so decided. I don't see any problem in this decision-making, it's not about any political law, it's not about any preconceived things, things are clear, it can prove that these apartments are relatively small, there can be many of them, these statistics are always a matter of some interpretation and later procedures that lead to individual numbers being harmonised, but the bill is certainly good and solves at least one segment. As we said in the preceding law, it is necessary to approach the need for individuals to be saved, not always seeking a solution for everyone in a marriage. I hope that you will also support the bill, which is a good one, which solves at least one part of the problem of solving the housing problems of young and young families, as you always advocate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, with the word of a representative of the Government. Here you go, Mrs. Lydia Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I would like to point out that we are actually talking about something that has already been done in this transfer of dwellings that the law is talking about. Those dwellings, which are permanently vacant and used by individual national authorities, have been practically transferred or transferred by the Government, and I have been stressing this all along. And if I may say again, according to all ministries, these apartments have been transferred either to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia or to the municipalities. Some were already in the initial stage of land-booking; others were regulated during the course of the procedure, and some are still to be arranged by land-books, so that they will be suitable for further rental. However, we would like to define ourselves until something else, which is why we believe that even in this mandate in the field of rent policy something has happened, on the basis of both the resolution and the business plan of the Republic Housing Fund, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has several new projects for the construction of rental apartments in Ljubljana, in Kranj, in Maribor, in Lukovica, in Ivančna Gorica. These are concrete projects that are already being implemented. According to this business policy, the Housing Fund aims to build 2,000 new rental apartments. It is also possible for municipalities, non-profit housing organisations, non-governmental organisations, and non-governmental organisations to form, together with the fund or individual project tasks, and to apply for 500 rental apartments, within the framework of the Programme for the co-financing of the provision of public rentals in 2016-2020. Currently, the Fund has 11 applications for a total of 405 dwellings and 14 housing units. At the same time, in October last year the Fund issued a public call for the purchase of housing and land for the construction of rental apartments. It is true, however, that it is only within the mandate of this government that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has deliberately embarked primarily on the policy of obtaining new rental apartments, as the Fund has been working so far mainly on building for the market. It is only in this mandate, as is evident from business policy, that it is planned to obtain as many rental apartments as possible, because we all know that there is a great need for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Probably the last time on this subject today. Unfortunately, the debate revealed that only members of the opposition had debated. The coalition – with the exception of positions, and this party, which houses in a stolen villa, has not even presented its position – is said to be the Social Democrats, who obviously do not have these housing, living problems – has said nothing in the debate, says the MPs of the coalition. For the confusion is obviously great, they do not support the law, but they do not want to hang it on the big bell, because they know that there will soon be elections. Here I exclude Desus because I do not yet know how they will vote, given that my hunting colleague Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popot said that some would support, some would not. Given that we do not know the SD's position, but unfortunately the SMC's position, where they have actually said that they will not support the law, I think this is another missed opportunity to take this seriously not only with the resolutions that we have written, let's say direct action, as defined by the resolution by 2025, has been delayed in the last 2, 3 years, the implementation of this resolution. I am not pretending that the law we have proposed will solve all the problems and problems young people have in solving the first housing issue, but this law is a logical answer to the measures or rather to the failures of the Government of Mir Cerar in this area. I have already mentioned 2 or can now point 3 of the Modern Centre Party's programme. In addition to providing favourable loans to banks for young people who will buy their first apartment, this is not clear to me how a customer can provide favourable loans to the bank, but it was written in your pre-election programme in 2014, but this has not been achieved. Young people today have no more favourable loans to buy their first apartment. The second point you wrote about rural areas is also such a problem that what we talked about or promised to improve rural governance for young people to take over farms is not realized. In this mandate, the average age of the Slovenian master increased, so you also fell on this. We can, however, take into account that the Modern Centre Party did not run this department, but this area is under the Social Democrats, and obviously the agricultural policy in the area of the acquisition of farms by young people has also been inappropriate. And the third thing the SMC party had on the program was housing cooperatives. We probably agree that one of the solutions to the residential issue of young people are also cooperatives according to the German model, Wohngemeinschafts, as the Germans call it, and that is where the matter works. And once again, I don't need to know what kind of analysis, if a system works in a country, it can somehow be copied, of course, for the specifics that are in certain countries, in this case, in particular, in our own case, we can adjust it to some extent, and that is that. But no one's going to give me anything to do except put some ink on paper in case of a resolution on the housing programme until 2025, so there's nothing to be done in four years. Because if you were four more years old or if you had them, I'm sure you wouldn't have done anything in the next four years. Why? Because you set your own dates in this apartment resolution, as I said before, it's all after 2022. Full of mouths about young people were these coalitions in the parties' pre-election programmes, in the coalition contract and there is no realisation. If you've done little for the pensioners, very little, but you haven't done anything for the young. Nothing. Yesterday you took away the status of the NGO to the Youth Council, tomorrow you will vote for the second time in this mandate against a concrete solution that is the beginning of a concrete solution to the housing problem of young people, and tomorrow you will also vote not to include young people in the Economic and Social Council. In short, you will confirm that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, since it has already been given negative support on the work body, on the Committee on Labour, on the family, on social affairs and on the disabled, it is said that it has not been adopted. Full mouth on young people in pre-election time, but nothing has been done in this area since 1 August 2014. On Monday, when I asked the Minister of Education about what she had done for the youth field, the Minister even negatively defined herself to a dual school system, saying that apprenticeship was something negative, that apprenticeship had a poorer appeal, at the same time saying how he had already lived up to the law they had proposed or adopted on the dual school system. Three laws should be regulated, amended and supplemented for this purpose. If we accepted what the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed three times, we would have a dual school system today. We would have a better link between the education system and the labour market, which would actually reduce unemployment in Slovenia at the expense of finding young jobs in Slovenia in the real sector. Not to be employed either in the public sector, 10,000 in this mandate, or to go abroad, 8,000 a year. If you count all the young people who have moved out and those who have been employed in the public sector, then somehow you get this number as far as unemployment has been reduced. I hope that voters and voters will make an account that they will be young – even though I know that young people do not participate in elections, and I know that a lot of parties have this logic: “Youths still do not go to elections, why try for them? They will not reward us or punish us for it, if it goes only to what I know, maybe 20, 30% to the elections." And that's it. And you care. But one day the time will come when it will also have to be answered, one day the time will come when a critical mass will be found, who will be able to really assess what someone has done, what has not done, what has not been proposed, and what proposal has been supported by whom and why the proposal would have meant – and in this case in our case – the beginning of a positive approach to solving some pressing problem that has not been adopted. Today, this proposal will not be adopted because of the ruling coalition, and we will support it in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u95	Thank you very much. All the Members and Members of Parliament who have been notified have been given the floor. Does anyone else want to discuss it? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Then I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Thursday, tomorrow, 22 March, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I'm breaking up the 17th item of the agenda. We're moving to 18. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on how to build infrastructure and conditional concessions for the exploitation of the energy potential of the mid-range alliance. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with Mr Ivan Hršak, the first to be signed. With regard to this bill, a group of eleven Members and Members with the first-signed Mr France Jurš requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Ivan Hrsak. Here you go, Mr. Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must make it very clear that my introduction of the parliamentary law today is by no means a pre-eminent act, because this saga around the hydroelectric power plant in Central Savi has been going on since June 2017, since I waited for the SMC to respond or support, after I presented the bill to them, but I have not yet received the support of any other member of the SMC, I am sorry. Today is already 275 days from the presentation of the law in the SMC Group. Why, in fact, the parliamentary law? Because it hasn't moved for years and because the ministries have been unable to inter-resort or agree on the adoption and signing of the concession contract for years. The Saga started long ago in 2005, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia awarded the HSE concession by decision and the concession contract was never signed. In 2011 HSE founded SRESA with its headquarters in Trbovje. This is a company that was established precisely to build a hydroelectric power plant in Central Savi, but HSE did not want to do anything and still does not want to transfer the concessions to SRESSA, which it also established for this purpose, and this is what local communities want. As a result of all of this, my proposal for a law contains the most important components necessary for the most transparent and rational way of building hydropower plants in the Central Sava, as well as all that local communities want. It is also very important that the Republic of Slovenia committed itself in 2009 to the requirements of the European Directive on the promotion of the use of renewable energy, to adopt an action plan to achieve a 25% share of electricity from renewable sources in the final electricity balance. If we fail to meet the requirements, we will also be sanctioned by the EU. However, the essential provisions of the bill are as follows. The draft law grants or grants concessions to SRESA, d.o.o. established by HSE in order to build these hydropower plants on the Central Sava. This will preserve the energy location in Zasavje, which has already been confirmed by the Government in the past. The concession shall be granted to SRESSA for a period of 50 years. The concessionaire shall pay the State 10 % of the value of electricity produced and the water refund each year and the sum of all concessionaire duties shall not exceed 14 % of the concessionaire's income from the sale of energy. It's a cap. The proposal provides that the State Spatial Plans for the first three hydropower plants, Suhadol, Trbovlje and Renke must be drawn up by 2021. The first hydroelectric power plant, Suhadol, must be built by 2025 and the construction of each further hydroelectric power plant must be built within three to four years. According to the State Spatial Plans adopted, the concessionaire must, within sixteen years of signing the contract, build and obtain a usable permit and begin the exploitation of water rights for at least the first three hydropower plants. The draft law regulates the implementation of water and local infrastructure arrangements as well as the regular and investment maintenance of facilities in the concession area on the basis of State spatial plans to be adopted for each hydropower plant separately. The Minister responsible for Space shall adopt a preparatory programme for each State Spatial Plan. The Minister responsible for Space shall also conduct the procedure for the adoption of each State Spatial Plan. The revenue from the concession fee shall be the source of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the Water Fund, and the budgets of the municipalities in which part of the water body is intended for the production of electricity. Upon completion of the performance prior to the authorisation of the experimental operation or use permit, an annex to the concession contract shall be added as a single annex to the concession contract containing a description of the state, local, water and energy infrastructure in the affected area of each hydropower plant. Lands in the concession area required for the construction of the necessary infrastructure shall be acquired by a concession, that is, by the State represented by the public service operator in the course of legal transactions, whether it is an Infra company or another undertaking. The conclusion of an insurance contract with a first-class insurance undertaking must be concluded by both the concessionaire and the concessionaire, each for facilities owned by it. The State Spatial Plan also sets the stage for regulating water installations to state and local infrastructures. The government and local communities shall agree on a set of priority projects before the adoption of the State Spatial Plan. The implementation programme shall be agreed upon by the local communities where the intervention takes place. The investment programme is based on the implementation programme and is the basis for the inclusion of projects in the development programme plan in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The implementation programme is prepared by the concessionaire and the economic operator of the public service, and it is the responsibility of the ILO, the Suhadol hydropower plant, the new Hrastnik-Zidani Bridge road and the modernisation of the railway infrastructure to plan and plan and build in a coordinated and simultaneous manner. The financial means shall be provided by each institution on its own financial and business plan so as not to impede construction in any way. The financial resources for the implementation of water infrastructure arrangements, including the purchase of all land in accordance with each State Spatial Plan, shall be provided from the Water Fund, from the Climate Fund for the implementation of water energy infrastructure projects in an indivisible manner, including remotes. If funding from the Water and Climate Fund is not sufficient, the Government may also provide the missing funding from the integrated budget, based on the investment project of the implementation programme. [[advertising from the hall]] Just give me a second. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, I'll be in the debate. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u98	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I find that, unfortunately, there are no government representatives at such an important point. To begin with: if hydroelectric plants were to be built on both the lower Sava and the middle Sava as quickly as Member Hršak advocated the positive effects of this law, at least half of the Central Sava would be built. Here's to starting with. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposal for a law tabled by Mr Hršak himself instead of a serious government, including certain Members of the SDS Group of Members, because we believe that if we want to pursue not only European, but in particular Slovenian objectives, which coincide with concepts such as renewable resources and energy self-sustainment, this law is either in such form or perhaps a little part of the necessary condition through further parliamentary debate, if we want to talk about a serious energy supply policy in Slovenia and if we want to raise the level of renewable resources, we will be comparable to the best European countries. Unfortunately, Slovenia has quite a mixed sense of what renewable resources are. If we ask some NGOs, they have questions when we ask them whether the thermal power plant Šostanj is a renewable source, whether it is a hydroelectric power plant, or whether it is the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. However, individual NGOs, even because of the price of their own existence, cannot agree on what is a priority. In view of the fact that we have water in the constitution and like to boast with water, we believe in the SDS Group that it should also be used appropriately, whether for energy or for agricultural policy purposes or for environmental issues, tourism infrastructure, and, in particular, road and transport infrastructure. In short, in our view, the SDS Group believes that the proposal for a law is a very good basis for us not only to start talking about the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava, but also to work in concrete terms. But maybe there's more to the marriage than that. The meeting took a long time for both the President of the Government and the President of the Republic. The supremacy had a lot of Members, but apparently they were always somewhat uneven, although they were mostly very similar to the same political forces, the left hand, the left political option, so that there would be no mistake. Unfortunately, when we drive past Zasavje, when I meet colleagues from Hrastnik, Trbovlje, Zagorje and the surrounding area and talk about what Zasavje received from the country in these years, everyone is disappointed. The mammals are almost like the Posavs feel cheated that they are too often forgotten a region. In short, to work with Zasav as well as with Posav: we will take as many of you as possible, and then you will not have the conditions to run for the province at all. This moment before us today, so the law on the exploitation of energy potential for the Central Sava is a good basis for you to sit together, meaning and decide what you want, whether you want a hydro power plant on the Central Sava or not. Here are the key moments mayors and together with them the municipal councils of those municipalities covered by this law. Without adequate support, without the proper consent of the local community, this law will unfortunately only be a dead letter on paper. Allow me, as I come from the neighbouring region, from Posavje, to say what positive opportunities there would be for the Savje if this law were to be in this form or perhaps through individual opinions which should be addressed to the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service in the next parliamentary procedure, in order for this law to be added, may be improved, in particular by the Nomo Technical Office. I come from the municipality that first met in the lower Sava with the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Savi. A municipality in which we have two hydropower plants, the Sevnica hydropower plant and the Arto-Blanca hydro power plant. Sadly, as a resident of the municipality of Sevnica, I find that we were truly pioneers and that we missed out on many things. Not on this energy and infrastructure work, but on all these occasions, the construction of the hydroelectric power plant brings them to certain areas. While in Sevnica, when we built the energy or infrastructure part of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant Boštanj and Arto-Blanca, we were kind of encouraged by the fact that we will be given anti-water security, our neighbours in Krske and Brežica saw the other potentials that hydroelectric power plants offer. If you just drive along the Sava River from Sevnica through Krško and downstream by Brežice, you can see that it is a big real step and a change in space and environment, which is hugged by the Sava River, but that this change has mainly brought a lot of positive changes. Of course, there are always people here who say, no, it wasn't all great, it was all wrong, but it's the story of all things in our love country. Therefore, from this city, the initiative to both the Zasavje MEPs and the Zasavje mayors and the inhabitants of Zasavje, come to Posavje, we will tell you what are the good examples, which are the moment on which we also decided to support the proposal of this law in the SDS Group and to draw your attention to all the things that have gone a little far. What went through? As a matter of fact, after we decided decades ago to let, if you so wish, the country enter our space to enter our environment, we first met - with whom? With representatives who are not here today, with representatives of ministries who spoke as they did in 2018 decades ago, what is not possible, what cannot be done. And how they did it the easiest. When local communities agreed to set up a working commission to accommodate meetings at the level of municipalities, at the level of the regional development agency, there were two things coming up by the State, mainly by the Ministry of Environment and Space. For the first time, whether they were non-response, as already suggested by the proposer, or always demanded something new, something additional, something specific, or as a third, they said there was no money. If I just look at what my colleague Zorčič and I have tried to do in this mandate to provide financial resources that will help to complete the hydropower plants on the lower Sava, I hope that the state, especially those ministries that are the key moment in this law, will decide that this law or this project should also be financially supported. In the SDS Group, we support the proposal of this law. We want it to be adopted in this mandate, because believe me, the numbers are pretty clear. Every month hydroelectric power plants do not work, they lose for the Slovenian budget. But, dear colleagues from Zasavje, I hope that in your intention to begin the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the central Sava as soon as possible, you will also help us from Posavje to complete the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava as soon as possible, because without the completion of the hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava there is no beginning of construction on the central Sava. However, this law is a good basis for us to take this step to start not only talking and thinking, but, above all, acting in the direction of building hydropower plants on the Central Sava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u100	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Today we are discussing a proposal for a parliamentary law on how to build the infrastructure and the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the Central Sava or, to put it simply, on the proposal for a law on the construction of a hydropower plant on the Central Sava. In particular, we must stress that the introduction of this bill is not a pre-eminent move by Desus, so that it is by no means part of the multitude of truly pre-election laws tabled by SMC. Our proposal for a law was introduced into the parliamentary procedure on 1 February this year, after more than 8 months of waiting for the support of SMC's largest coalition party. It is submitted by Members and Members of the Desus Group, together with some co-signatures from other parliamentary groups, for which we thank them very much. So we are all fully aware that this law is more than necessary. Why? Currently, the last hydroelectric power plant in the hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava is under construction. It's the Mokrice hydro power plant. Once that hydroelectric power plant is built, it could be determined by our adopted law that the first hydroelectric power plant on the Central Sava could be built immediately. This is with the Suhadol hydroelectric power plant, then the Trbovlje hydroelectric power plant and the Renke hydro power plant, and then the remaining planned hydroelectric power plants along the Sava upwards towards Ljubljana. These first three hydroelectric plants are not disputed from an environmental point of view. The following hydroelectric plants are located in the Natura 2000 area, where some problems are present and will only be seen in the future. Why the marriage? The law is needed because, first of all, the marriage ground has proved to be the right and effective basis for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava. On the basis of the law, the necessary documents, such as the concession contract, a set of state and local infrastructure projects, a timetable for implementation and others, have been agreed and will be signed on the mid-Save as well, all in agreement with local communities. The solutions contained in the proposal of our law, i.e. the planned construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava, follow the solutions of the law on the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava. What we must stress is that the draft law also regulates the construction of water and other infrastructure by the State, which cannot be regulated by a concession act or concession contract for water use. The adoption of our law would ensure the same regulation in the only two major concession areas of the Sava River in the last 15 years, as two different concessional relations would be regulated in a uniform way, namely a water concession and a construction concession. The proposal for our law contains the transfer or award of concessions to the company of the Medieval Power Plant, d.o.o., shorter SRESSA, based in Trbovje, which was established in 2011 by Holding the Slovenian Power Plant, d.o.o., which is also its majority owner. SRESSA was therefore established by HSE with the aim of building hydroelectric power plants in Central Savi. This solution also follows the example of a solution on the lower Sava where HSE transferred the concession to a newly established company owned by HESS, d. o. o. The draft law also regulates the award of a concession for the regulation of water state and local infrastructure, which also follows in this part the solutions provided for in the Law on the Construction of Hydroelectric Power Plants on the Lower Sava, which regulates the construction of water and local infrastructure facilities and water infrastructure facilities at the legal level. It also regulates the maintenance of infrastructure facilities. It is therefore a specific comprehensive regulation of the water concession and the construction concession, which is comparable to the Act on the conditions of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, on the basis of which the construction of the infrastructure for the hydroelectric power plant chain in the concession area of the lower Sava is being successfully completed or, as is said, is being slowly completed. In favour of a legal basis, i.e. a single legal basis for both the water concession and the construction concession may also be based on the requirements of public finance rules, which provide that resources should be developed in the development programme plan by means of funding sources for the full implementation of projects or programmes, which will, in the future, require the Ministry of Finance to produce comprehensive investment documents which will have to have harmonised forward-looking and financial plans both for the construction of an energy facility and for all other arrangements. In view of all the above-mentioned facts, and given the obligations of the State of Slovenia through the Action Plan, which obliges us to have at least a 25 % share of electricity produced from renewable energy in total electricity production by 2020, and we do not currently achieve it, this objective and the international obligation to build these hydropower plants would be achieved. If this objective is not achieved in 2020, the State will have to pay the penalty. Finally, I would like to remind you that we had written down in the Coalition Treaty, that we will do everything possible to increase the percentage of electricity produced from renewable energy sources and that we will prepare everything necessary to build hydropower plants on the Central Sava. We regret that we did not realize this provision at the time of the coalition. Because of everything previously mentioned in the Desus Group, we are predicting a single support for the law of the Member States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u101	The text is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, Mrs Violeta Tomić for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. Slovenia must reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This must be achieved by increasing energy efficiency, reducing energy consumption and increasing the share of renewable energy in the common energy balance. The latter in practice means closing coal power plants and building power plants on renewable sources. This is what we've been up to in Levica for the entire term. In order to achieve this, we have called for urgent meetings, tabled amendments to the laws and regulations of the European directives, and in the legislative procedure, our proposal for an energy law to enable greater investment in solar power plants was also in the legislative procedure. However, the fact is that the replacement of fossil fuels with renewable resources will not be possible unless we also build large hydropower plants. For the construction of these, Sava is probably the most suitable of all Slovenian rivers, so in Levica we support the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain in the central Sava in principle. However, not in the way that we are trying to do so with the law that we are dealing with here today. The Law on the Construction of Infrastructure and the Conditions of the Concession for the Exploitation of the Energy Potential of the Central Sava is, in the first place, unnecessary because in 2004 a Regulation on the Water Concession for the Production of Electricity in the Water Body of the Sava River from Ježica to Suhadola was already adopted, which was subsequently amended several times. On the basis of this Regulation, a government decision was issued in 2005 granting a concession to the Slovenian power plant holding company d.o.o. for the water body area of the Central Sava. What is missing is therefore only the conclusion of the concession contract. The law tabled by the Group of Members and Members is a copy of the Law on the conditions for exploiting the energy potential of the Lower Sava. This law is now shown to be controversial at several points. The law imposed a cap on the majority of the concession fees paid on 14 % of the concessionaires' revenues from electricity sales, which, on the one hand, placed other hydroelectric power plants in Slovenia in an unequal position and, on the other hand, was reduced to a negligible amount of money from these duties by the local community. There is an increasing number of evidence of the unintended use of resources from the water and water funds from which money is used to build these hydropower plants, which has been specifically laid down by the Law on the conditions for exploiting the energy potential of the Lower Sava and which is also intended to be repeated by this law for the construction of hydropower plants in the Central Sava. In addition, the construction of 11 large hydro power plants on Sava is a major intervention in space and nature. A large part of the influential area of planned power plants lies within the protected Natura 2000 area. It is extremely inappropriate for such legislation to be adopted just before the end of the term without a comprehensive environmental impact assessment and without public involvement in the preparation of the law, which is a direct violation of the Aarhus Convention. More. The preparation of the law did not include the local communities in Zasavje, which are most directly concerned with the construction of these power plants and are directly concerned with the law, as proposed, with skeptic and justifiably detained. The construction of hydroelectric power plants in Central Sava will have an impact on surface water and groundwater. It will have an impact on habitats of fish and bird species. It is not only the environmental impact of each individual power plant that is to be studied in particular in the adoption of a separate State Spatial Plan for each power plant, but also the cumulative impact of the construction of all power plants, which will then require the preparation of a set of mitigation measures that will eliminate these impacts to the greatest extent possible. The Act, the introductory part of which, without articles, covers a total of three and a half pages, does not contain any of the above. The only reason for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava to date despite the adoption of a regulation on the water concession for the production of electricity on the part of the Sava water body from Ježica to Suhadol and despite the decision of the Government by which the Slovenian power plant Holding was, d.o.o., the concession granted has not yet been awarded is that the concession contract has not yet been concluded. The law under consideration provides that the concession contract shall be concluded within one year of the entry into force of the law. This is intended to speed up the construction process, and nowhere in the law does it say why the concession contract has not yet been concluded. The Concession Treaty between the Government and HSE was already fully harmonised at the end of 2013. The Ministry of Environment and Space has then aligned the content of this contract with all other resources, except the Ministry of Finance. The coordination stopped in January 2014, as it was found that there was insufficient funding to build the necessary road infrastructure. This is the Zidani Bridge-Hrastnik Road, which also requires local communities to sign a special cooperation agreement and mutual rights and obligations relating to the construction of the Suhadol, Trbovlje and Renke hydropower plants, which is the accompanying document of the concession contract required by the local communities. In addition to the lack of funds, the contract was not concluded because HSE later stated that it did not wish to conclude any more concession contracts. This is due to the fact that certain areas are envisaged for the construction of power plants in the Natura 2000 area, where the presence of the sultar is and therefore the State cannot guarantee to the concessionaire that it will also be able to build a whole chain of hydro power plants in the form envisaged, but that new technologies will have to be used. In short, there are two reasons why power plants on the Central Sava are not yet being built. The first reason is that there is no money because the law saves by setting the example of the law on the conditions for exploiting the energy potential of the Lower Sava in these infrastructure projects, is that it exhausts the money from the Water and Climate Fund and puts the cap on the payment of the concession fee. The second reason is that there is a way to find a perimeter beyond all the requirements of nature and the use of the best available technology, which would make interventions to the river stream as much as possible, which is resolved by the way this law is adopted. The law that we are currently considering is content-consuming and by way of adoption, and we will therefore vote against this law in Levica, although in principle we agree that hydropower plants should be built on Sava. However, this must be done in a transparent manner, without the unintended use of funds from funds which are not intended to do so and in accordance with the highest standards of nature. Therefore, as I have already said, we will not support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u103	Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u104	Dear Vice-President, thank you for the floor, Madam Minister, there is no Minister, and I will explain why not, dear colleagues, my colleague! In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we estimate that the construction of hydroelectric power plants is only one of the important steps towards a carbon-free society. On the one hand, hydroelectric power plants mean clean electricity, on the other hand flood protection, we are faced with many other multiplier effects on investment itself, as hydroelectric plants, as they do in Slovenia, are mainly built with local knowledge, as well as with domestic work. A typical example or example of the construction of such hydroelectric power plants are hydroelectric plants on the lower Sava, in this mandate specifically the Brežice hydroelectric power plant and the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant, which is in the final stage of preparation for the start of construction. In the Modern Centre Party we also place a special emphasis on the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava. This is also enshrined in the coalition agreement. All the efforts that have been made so far also confirm this. Last but not least, we are aware that we have also adopted certain solutions in the current budget, which are infrastructure related to hydropower plants. We complement certain investment resources and, in fact, aim to ensure that the infrastructure that connects the local community in the middle of the Sava to the construction itself begins to be built at the same time or before the construction of hydropower plants. What seems problematic to us in this law is that it does not continue this project where it ended, either for financial reasons or for reasons related to the interpretation of the concession contract. This is our case for a specific case, which is not compared with the Lower Savi Act or with the realisation of the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the lower Savi because the integration of Slovenia into the European Union and also the amendment of European and other legislation in the field of concessions has occurred. At Stanka modern center, in our parliamentary group we are convinced that this project should continue where it was stopped. This is the next step, by concluding a concession contract with a company granted concession in 2005, that is to say Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant. and in this direction, the Government's ambitions and efforts go, which it also ensured on the occasion of its visit to Zasavje in 2017. But the bill doesn't follow that. In fact, the law commands some other solution as it concerns the concession, namely the transfer of the already awarded concession to another person or the redistribution. The law uses a division of distribution or transfer, which we find quite controversial and contrary to existing legislation relating to the award of concessions. In this place, we have the idea that such a dictatorship would even abolish the awarded concession and put the project at risk to the point of not starting to build it for a number of years. What seems problematic to us in the Group of Members is that, as I have already mentioned, the conclusion of the concession agreement itself is entrusted to the Ministry of Environment and Space, which we know is in the quota of Desus. We note, however, that nothing is actually happening in this place and that the Ministry does not essentially carry out its functions and that the obvious fate of this project is somehow put in the hands of Members instead of concluding a concession contract, as promised by the Government. Given that these reasons for granting concessions or following a new grant or transfer, as has been unfortunately recorded, our concerns are so far-reaching that we will not support this law at this stage and continue to assess the need for a concession contract to be concluded as soon as possible. I'd like to mention another matter that might be up to date at this time. The law we are considering actually refers to a very large state project, which is estimated to be worth or weigh 400 million euros. It is also our Group's position that such projects must be undertaken by the State in a different way, either by the laws proposed by the Government, for which they are then responsible, or by other means, as already provided for by existing laws. But certainly not with the laws of the Member States. Last but not least, we are witnessing today information that the Municipality of Velenje, run by Mayor Kontič, is about to file an action against the company TES. Let us just remember one of the laws sent to the country that imposed a certain burden of over EUR 400 million on the construction of the 6th block itself, which means that we are in some perverse situation, when someone first proposes a building, supports the construction of a certain state project, and now with some lawsuits of cases that are financially open, deepens. Our view is that in such projects, if it ever turns out to be a law, it is already in the past that it must go to the law proposed by the Government. We will not support the bill in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u105	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. We have quite a few cancellations, so allow me to read all the reported debates and debaters. First, Mr Zvonko Lah, second, Mr Daniel Krivec, followed by Mr Ivan Hršak, Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Igor Zorčič. As a matter of fact, Mr. Zvonko Lah gets the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Vice President. We did not have a position, so I will say that, given that Slovenia is obliged to achieve a certain percentage of renewable energy within a certain period of time, and that we are very slow to achieve this goal, that we have invested a lot in photovoltaics, which will cost the country enormously, although this is probably the most promising source, and when we boast of water resources, we have still unused water resources such as small hydroelectric plants, which is a major problem where we could reach the capacity of 300 megawatts, which is half of TES 6, and because there is an untapped possibility also in the Sava, in the middle part of the Sava, we support this law, although it deviates partly from practice. This is about starting to build as soon as possible, because otherwise we will not be able to achieve this goal, which we have committed to the European Union. In addition, the construction of small hydroelectric plants should be accelerated without delay, as the use of the medium-sized Sava means that the state will invest and that no state will invest in small hydropower plants, but the private sector. Therefore, both should be accelerated. Solar energy is such a future, and if we don't start soon, I'm afraid we won't take advantage of it either. First of all, it is likely that the coal, gas, or other power plants will fail, and then it will be the turn of some hydroelectric power plants, or they will cease to build. The price of energy from solar power plants is said to be already cheaper than from nuclear power plants, given the progress of technological developments. But still, the base is water energy, and we need to make use of it where we still have it in abundance. That is why we will support this law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u107	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Mr Ivan Hršak and Mr Tomaž Lisec should be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. We will support this bill in the parliamentary group. I support him myself. It has already been mentioned that we have made quite a few commitments to the European Union regarding renewable resources and that the acceleration of projects in the construction of hydroelectric power plants is certainly in favour of this objective that we have committed ourselves to meeting. In this case, it is also a similar process and a similar matter as in the construction of power plants on the lower Sava. The fact is that the basic concession was granted to the Slovenian power plant holding company, and also in the case of constructions on the lower Sava, this concession was transferred to the new concessionaire, that was holding the lower Sava. Now it is a similar case that has already been implemented in the past, so I see no legal complications in this regard. However, the fact is that it is important that the entity that will take this concession is also seriously engaged and that all procedures are carried out as soon as possible in order to achieve this construction. As I said, commitments have been made in the past, it is also important that quality renewable energy sources are available as soon as possible, since the alternative to wind and solar energy in Slovenia is not the most economically acceptable and is not available. So I think it's possible it's been pretty blurry. Perhaps this initiative would have been meaningful even earlier, and in particular it should have made a decision in this area also by the Ministry of Resources, because the fact is that if a concession is granted and the project for which the concessions are awarded is not implemented, this does not mean that someone may have unlimited time to concession and none of this title will happen. In the future, these concession contracts need to limit a certain period of time so that, in the event that projects are not implemented on the basis of a grant, this concession can in some way be withdrawn. As I said, in this case it is only a transfer to a new society, which I believe will be able to carry out projects to build new hydro power plants on the Central Sava significantly faster and more effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u109	Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. We have heard the opinion or position of certain parliamentary groups. Certain parliamentary groups have even avoided and have not given me a position, which I find incorrect, but this tells us all about their attitude towards this issue. What is essential in this construction of hydroelectric power plants in Central Savi is that it would be one big project for the Slovenian economy, that for all these hydroelectric plants from equipment, construction, design, etc., practically everything can be carried out by Slovenian companies. This is said to be an opportunity for the entire Slovenian economy, and also partly for the local Swiss economy, which would probably also be involved here. The fact that the matter has not moved anywhere since 2005 although the HSE is supposed to be working on the preparation of state spatial plans, is said to have already spent around €9 million, and I am just wondering what these 9 million euros have also spent on. I must say that I will also then respond to this opposition from some environmental organisations, but that this law is supported by both the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia and also ZENS, the Association for Energy Independence of Slovenia, which is very clear to them that Slovenia must be as dependent as possible on the import of electricity or on as much self-sustainment as possible. I have received support from the European Parliament from European Ambassador Franz Bogovic. This means a lot to me because Franz Bogovic was the mayor of the Krka Municipality at the time when these things took place. And if anyone knows this problem about construction, design, in short, all these things and problems that have arisen in the construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava, it is indeed Mr Bogovic. It is also very worrying that we have said that nothing has actually been done in this area since 2005 until today, 2018. Neither was the concession contract signed. Why wasn't it signed? Some ask why it wasn't signed. I don't know that answer. But if I look from my point of view, there was no real interest. There was no real interest on the part of the concessionaire. If I had that interest, I would have done much more. The only thing he did was set up SRESSA in 2011 just to build this hydroelectric power plant in Central Sava, as we have already heard today. Of course not. Although some have said that the law is not right or the law is not needed and so on, this law improves those things that have been shown to be bad or not the most appropriate in the law on the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava. As far as local communities are concerned, local communities do not support this law. No one can say that. That's not true. That's not true for now. They didn't support him or oppose him. Their position was such that they wished to obtain an opinion before their decision was taken by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government's legislative service. The fact that the government's law enforcement office has not given its opinion also tells us everything. In general, when the law enforcement service comes to the home work committee, it must give its opinion. Of course we'll see if we can get there. The fact is that local communities were afraid by the Ministry of Infrastructure that this transfer from HSE to SRESSA, which is, of course, majority owned by it, 60% is in HSE, 40% indirectly in Gen Energy. Given that HSE has not done enough or is very small in these years, the partners could agree on each other and could provide this initiative and more resources for Gen Energy. And the gene of energy has these resources. HSE did not directly say that it does not have these assets, although we know that it has problems in paying these financial obligations to TES. He highlighted the problem of the economic viability of the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava or these energy facilities at that time. The last time I was in the Trbojes in the Zasavska Forum organised by the newspaper Finance, and when I first talked about this law about putting it in, in last June, only then did something start to happen on the government side, nothing happened before. My goal, in fact, is not that the law must be adopted, my main objective, the goal of the Zasavci, the Zasavov local communities, is that these hydropower plants should finally be built. It doesn't matter how. In parallel, I encouraged them to start writing the concession contract by predicting the introduction of the law. I must say that, since 2015, a concession contract has also been drawn up and, at a meeting of the ILO, the Minister for the Environment and Space of Irene Majcen, where this matter has stopped at the time, otherwise, Minister Gasperšič has been reluctant to admit that he is at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Then nothing else happened until I announced that I was going to file this marriage, and something started to happen. Sometime in October, if I may use this word at all, the Secretary of State in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, Dr. Anton Žunič, became more active. I know Mr Anton Žunič, when he was Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board, he gave Mr Kramar a million-dollar prize, and now he is clearly an expert in hydroelectric power plants and he writes this concession contract and a contract for the implementation of the concession and all those projects that must be included, a timetable and so on. I was more than correct as a coalition Member. I've been waiting for Mr. Zunic to prepare these documents. For the 6th December of last year, a visit to the government in Zasavje was announced and then organised. Then there were three meetings and Mr. Zunič explained to us, and I said: "Wait, okay, if this matter is settled, then my goal is also achieved. Not by law, it can be through a concession contract.” And at that last meeting, Mr. Zunič explained to us, saying, "We only have two hours, we only have two hours, and we will have it in a coordinated manner." In short, we've got everything in sync, two hours left, and it'll be coordinated. Fine. The government came to Zasavje and none of this happened. After that visit, it obviously fell down a little and nothing happened. But after I said at Radio Actual Kum at the end of the year that I would make a law in January, that there was already a lot of my waiting and patience, but something was happening again, and it was right before now that this matter would be settled there. But it's not here until today. According to me, those documents didn't go through government law enforcement. Because until the last date they said in the SMC that they would check the matter of the law by 31 January if they didn't, they would support my law. But today I finally heard, today after 275 days, that they don't support this marriage. This I think is a world record given that we have a protocol for coalition parties' cooperation when we are supposed to respond to the presentation of the law within five days. I've waited until today, and that's already 275 days. This is going to go to the anals of the National Assembly. As regards the fact that the award of the concession with HSE to the SRES is inconsistent, I have here this European Directive on the transfer of concessions in the public sector and there is no indication in these provisions that this would not be allowed. However, this argument has been cited all the time and our local communities have believed and waited, and even after a 30-day period they have not given their opinion given that they are waiting for this opinion to be positive. They told me informally that they would support this law, but to this day it is not because it is generally not given until the general debate and then it would only be on the Committee. If I still respond to the comments received by post, environmental organisations that stated that there should be a broad debate on this law and that no comprehensive environmental impact assessment has been carried out. I must say that no law initially carries out a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. The environmental impact assessment should be carried out in the adoption of spatial acts if the Ministry of Environment and Space or their body so decides to carry out this comprehensive environmental impact assessment. This is usually the case for the first adoption of municipal spatial acts, the UNO, in the case of amendments and then they are decided on a case-by-case basis. In practice, this means that these procedures will then only be carried out in the context of procedures when deciding on the manner and types of care of that sultry or other endangered animal species that live there and are somehow threatened. At a time when it is not even accurate where a hydroelectric plant will stand because the state spatial plan has not yet been drawn up, it can not actually be arranged yet. There was also something said about this method of financing. We find this kind of funding very transparent. Exactly where this money will come from, and it has not been saved before. This funding on the lower Sava has not been so arranged, but is now much better here. And even better, it is said that the purchase of these lands, where they will be hydroelectric, is done by the state or by this public company. Then an infrastructure programme containing a list of values, the dynamics of the construction of state and local infrastructure at each hydropower plant, is confirmed by the Government and introduced into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia after the approval of the investment route for each hydropower plant separately. If it's not settled before, it can't be. More than this transparency can in fact not be guaranteed. In this way, we would avoid all traces of inappropriate funding from the past when these matters were not so made. The law also provides for accommodation and cooperation between the state and local communities. In fact, there's also this security guard in there that without the landing of local communities, nothing can be done. This was probably not the case in the past, and problems were then identified. But here, without the consent of local communities, nothing can happen. And another security guard who previously failed to read me says that the law states that after the adoption of this law a concession contract must be signed within one year, otherwise the law does not apply. And this is the security guard that this matter would not have gone as far as it has been in the 12th century, nothing has actually been done in the 13th year. Last time we talked about whether it was even viable to build electricity facilities, the stakeholders initially said it wasn't. At the time I participated in this forum, however, they are ultimately in Trbovje and by HSE and Mr Zunič suddenly found that the construction of these electrical facilities is now viable. I will be most pleased, the Zasavka and Zasavci will be happy, regardless of whether this law is not adopted if, after that concession contract, it is prepared or all the documents finally to be built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u111	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. First of all, it's a matter of whether the law does or the law does and who the right person is to make laws. Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, adopted in October 2011, proposed mag. Mr Andrej Bizjak and the Group of Members. Many laughed that it was the only opposition law in that mandate when the SDS was opposition, but it was adopted shortly before the elections. If memory doesn't deceive me, there were elections, I think, in early December 2011, and the law was passed in October 2011. It's a situation like today. Since the government has done nothing, politics in this National Assembly has decided that something needs to be changed. That is why I understand my colleague Hrška, when he is sometimes angry with his client minister, but it is called the Ministry of Environment and Space, which does nothing, not on the substantive pay, not on the financial pay. Their representatives are obviously not interested in what is interesting because, in a number of other laws, we had an opposition law before, but Mrs State Secretary from the same ministry, but now whether or not they have experts at the Ministry of Environment and Space who could deal with environmental and energy issues, either bluff or flee from responsibility. In short, regardless of who the proposer is, whether he is a member or a parliamentary group or a government, it is the duty of the National Assembly to deal with and vote on this law. It would also be a nice commitment and responsibility of government representatives, because the Ministry of Environment and Space is not only a minister and two state secretaries, there are a lot of people, and no one on Wednesday afternoon has time to speak in the National Assembly and briefly says we are in favour or we are against, 2 or 3 indents, why they are in favour or against. In addition to the silence of the Government, I must say that I am surprised that only one member from Zasavje is speaking about this law, and then we speak to Members who are not from Zasavje and we hope or dare to express our opinion. It is true, however, that we are taking the lead on two Members from Posavje, who have a very similar view that we need to pay attention to this project, but that this project brings positive changes to the environment. My friend Zorčič said well, home knowledge. Yes, Slovenian knowledge, Posavsko, Zasavsko, perhaps even some from the Shaleska Valley realizes what was wrong with the Termoelectrica Šoštanj, and wants to wash the guilt, he may be involved in a project that pursues the objectives of renewable resources and may wish to help with his professional or other competences. That's the advantage of this marriage. Not to look abroad for examples of good practices, but, according to the local word, only downstream, not in Ljubljana, but downstream in Posavje, we look at what are the positive and negative aspects of the adoption of such a law. Perhaps a few more words about renewable resources, water funds, and so on. We're waiting for the whole mandate to come up with an energy concept. The experts I know in the field of energy say he's not here. Because, for the first time, it's a pure bluff, and for the second time, it was written by people who are against energy and also against renewable sources. So we don't really need such an anti-energy concept. Here we have the advantage that the Ministry of Environment and Space, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Economy, do not do what, for the first time, they have promised themselves, and, secondly, what is their duty. The whole of Slovenia expects an energy concept. So in Posavij, we have the first block of nuclear power plant, I personally hope that there will be a second block, and we wait for officials and a part of the policy to come up with, whether we need a second block or not, when we need it, and what we need is silence. The mammals, at least some, are trying to reach out to this law that is before us today, so that in addition to the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, the resources in Zasavje would be renewable, but the government is silent. We know what's going on in Drava. A golden pit, but some misbehaviour this jewel. We know what's going on with the question: energy yes or no with Moore, and that's not even the energy concept, at least the draft that I got, and I looked at it, doesn't say anything. In the last 14 days, I was surprised to hear from the same experts that an energy resolution is now being prepared instead of an energy concept in the government or in the ministries. I said that the energy concept, a similar energy resolution. They said no, no, no, no, no, no. Something new. Officials are always preparing something new, inventing hot water, and Sava is running and running. Officials who, besides the profession, should say what and how, I hope that in certain ministries there is only some kind of profession in the field of environmental and energy policy, invent new and new things, and then these same experts and officials point to this assembly and say, look, this is for, and this is against. And this is what the fellow Member Jean Mahnic used to say about each other's marriage. With all due respect, but the officials of the second and third leagues have grown up in their business, leading all of us to end up with a long nose and we must defend ourselves in front of the electorates and voters what we have done. But basically, they did a bad job, at least with government laws, officials. But their messengers too many times, unfortunately, we blindly believe when we hear the great marriage, it's a great marriage, just support it. Six months from now, we'll see there's been one, I'll say, official trouble in the back. As far as HSE is concerned, which is supposed to be the capo di gang in this law. We all know that HSE is the prisoner of one other missed project that has nothing to do with Zasav and Posav or that he even took Zasav and Posav. Not only do the documents testify to this, but the numbers testify to it in the first place. How the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain on the lower Sava would have been completed earlier, and how would the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the central Sava have started sooner if HSE had not climbed the TES 6 project when people from HSE were blindly trusting one lobby. Whether they believed blindly or there were other backgrounds, I hope that not only this investigative commission, which is now in the National Assembly, but that the law enforcement authorities will also find out who they were following blindly and who they followed along this path of money. As far as the water fund is concerned, it is obvious that once on one Committee on the Environment and Space, or infrastructure, it will be necessary to tell who is paying for the water fund at all. Nuclear and hydro power plants. And then what happens is what I've been listening to all the time in the National Assembly, if you, yes, but all you Posavci or most of you get. Where are the hydro power plants? At Posavio. Where's the nuclear power plant? At Posavio. The plantation was supposed to be put into the water fund, and everyone else was supposed to have some of it. Posavje also deserves to be protected against floods. If you don't believe me, your respects, come to the places of Sevnica, Krske and Brežice, and we will tell you with our colleague Zorčič that we also need anti-water security in Posavje and that this is the basis when we are talking in addition to the law about the construction of hydroelectric power plants. Anti-floating security is no added value, but this is the basis, in addition to energy work in the construction of hydroelectric power plants. I'm moving on to what we heard today that the mayors know what to do, but they don't know what to do, but they're in, but they're not against. Parishs from the congregations of Hrastnik, Trbovlje, Zagorje are not so far apart. Drive twice for coffee or for three coffees, perhaps some Posav MEP and the mayor would like some coffee, or talk a little bit about whether you're in the middle of a hydro power plant or not. The mayors ask your municipal councils, ask your local economists, and not least the people who will live in these places when they are built and after they are built, whether they are hydroelectric or not. The basis is support for this law. The law that I mentioned earlier in Posavius was said to be the Law of Vision, I think it was already in 2017 that he experienced a fifth or some change. This is what the representatives of this government say in their laws that are bad, because if something goes wrong, they will change or say in opposition laws that, yes, the law is not good, they will change that legislation is a living thing. I think that this law is a good basis only if the Ministry of Environment and Space does not follow such substantively, through documentation, and not financially, it will not have to be amended many times. It is clear when the first hydroelectric power plant should start and at what pace it should follow. In most cases it depends on the country if the local community agrees to this project at all. Then everything depends on the state. It is not, however, that Members and local economists, which are mainly local, must speak from the experience of Posavje, convince the ministries, czech, you have promised this and this document and you have promised so many and so many documents. Just ask your colleague Zorčič how many meetings he had at this point, because it's hydropower plants from his influential, if you want, water cycle when he wants to help. I myself have had quite a few meetings, and I must say that here the Posav lobby, mentioned by some, has worked very uniformly. Because all Posavci are aware that after the decision of the predecessors both in the National Assembly and the mayors, we want and allow hydropower plants on the lower Sava, that they also need to be completed. And here there was never a problem Posavci left, right, for, against, there was only a problem Posavje v country. There were meetings of the working committee. And what happened most of the time? All the Posav mayors, all the Posav MPs and 20 other people from Posavska energy come to the meeting, the first item was a review of the realization decision and no one from the Ministry of Environment and Space was there, no one from the Ministry of Infrastructure to answer these questions. And it happened that the president of this working committee stopped the meeting at the first point because he said that those who were most responsible were not. A similar story is happening today. Those who are most responsible, who will have to carry their hands and take care of everything else, are not, we do not have any written opinion nor for today's session, and the applicant also has problems not knowing what the Government's position is and so on. Let me finish. This law was also based on what was brought about by such negative and, above all, positive experiences on the lower Sava. Not only from the question of what kind of energy we want, whether it's renewable resources or black coal, but also from other areas: agriculture policy, irrigation, transport infrastructure, so that the mammals may sometimes come to Ljubljana or to us in Posavije for the purpose of building a hydroelectric power plant in a safer way, on a more level of road, tourism, the airworthiness of the Sava River and so on. Not only is the problem of the untamed Sava, but we also need to look at the opportunities. This marriage is a good opportunity for Zasavje to have a new start. It is true, however, that much depends on those who are part of the government coalition here, much less on the opposition. In the SDS Group, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u113	The last one has the floor, Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. I agree that there is a need for a certain shift in the case of hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava. I'm not going to speculate about why this hasn't happened so far. Probably the main reason is even more than the concession contract money. Finally, not only do all previous governments plan to complete the hydroelectric power plant chain on the lower Sava, but it begins with the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the central Sava. But no matter what, we are placed in a situation where we have a concession granted. Let us leave this company, whether it is capable of making this investment or not, then we are faced with a situation where the rules on granting concessions are relatively rigid at the level of the European Union and certain risks are already being put here if we go against these rules. Finally, we also have what has been repeatedly exposed today, that even in this process the representatives of local communities have not explicitly stated whether they support or not the law, but are waiting for the position of the Legal and Legal Service, which is essentially for me as someone who decides on this law, nor is it sufficient information. Last but not least, I do not know what this opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service can deliver either a positive or a negative opinion. As far as the laws are concerned, this is the case. I agree with this position of our parliamentary group, that in important infrastructure projects, if individual laws are needed, these laws are proposed by the Government. We all know what it's like to consider such a law at a referendum, and then the government probably can't defend its marriage in the future. Nevertheless, regardless of the cases mentioned today, we consider that this is the right path, which somehow provides the basis for this law to be implemented in the end, and that all stakeholders to be taken into account in the adoption of the individual law will be taken into account. As far as the lower Sava, mentioned most, was concerned, this law was adopted in some other circumstances. Maybe one repair. The first law on the successful potential of the lower Sava was adopted even in 2000. Then I went to look for it. Text Speakers: Jože Ašič, Branko Janc, Tone Anderlič, was accepted 23. 6. 2000. Apparently, by 2011, it had not been carried out as they had imagined, and then novels were needed. If the parallel of this law, which we are dealing with today, is the same, then, I hope not, it will not take eleven years as it would have been desired. Nevertheless, I am convinced that this possibility exists, given that the concession has already been granted, that in the case of the Savea below, this system has not been undermined in relation to this concession and then the whole matter is put at risk of having to be redistributed, but there will be no other company, not the ones we want, that will be able to register under European rules. I would also like to see that the investor in the Central Sava is certainly a GEN energy that is significantly more capable of such investments than HSE, which drowns in these financial mathematicians, which are the result of the construction of Block 6 in Šostanje. As far as the laws of the Member States are concerned, we have raised one specific point. I'll do it again so that maybe I'll be a little more plastic, show you where the story of the Member's law can go. I'm far from hinting at you here, Comrade Ivan, because you're a good man, but let's look at another case. I'm not saying that this case will necessarily lead to this. The 2012 news, I read the online portal Dnevnik: »Velenjski Mayor Bojan Kontič says that the adoption of the law (I am talking about the guarantee law for TES 6) allows the continuation of the project TES 6, which is important not only for the valley of Silesian, but for the whole of Slovenia. The TES 6 project will, according to him, bring quality jobs and restructuring of the economy in the Shaleska Valley, which began years ago. They also want to maintain coal production in the Shaleska Valley because it is very competitive compared to imported." In short, everything is very nice, oh and in general, and then news from today: “It is obvious that according to Velenj Mayor Bojan Kontič, TES 6 is avoiding the settlement of compensation. In the congregation they want the Law on the Valley of Shale to be passed.” Of course, before that, they are suing Thermal Power Plant Šostanj for non-indemnity of €750,000 for damage in 2016 due to the use of infrastructure during the construction of block 6.” I'm sorry, but I don't think that's normal. Now I don't know if they've agreed on what to do with the infrastructure, how to do it, but now we're witnessing an action against the company behind which the state guarantee proposed by the one filing a lawsuit against the company of Šostanj today. We are witnessing a perverse situation where you don't know who, and I think that this is also the result of the fact that in previous references, some parliamentary laws have been introduced as very, I don't know, as much as they are today, but I believe that, even if there is some kind of guarantee, it will not be the right way for large infrastructure projects that are already under the suspicion of certain corruption due to the resources that revolve around such projects. If it turns out to be a question of whether or not this law will be adopted, but if it turns out to be necessary to speed up the construction of hydropower plants in the Central Sava, I am sure that such a law must be proposed by the government. This will obviously be the next government, and this will no longer be possible in this reference. Until then, however, I think it is the right way, given all the risks that exist due to the concession already granted, to conclude this concession contract. Here, too, my call to the Ministry of the Environment to take some step forward towards the realization or conclusion of this Treaty. If it is concluded, I am sure that there will be a realisation of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u115	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which the representative of the proposer Ivan Hršak gets the floor. Mr. Hršak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. From everything I've heard, I'd like to say a few more words. I appeal to the Members and Members when there will be a vote tomorrow to support this law. I am convinced that this is the right way for the efficient and transparent construction of these hydro power plants in Central Savi. I mentioned earlier that the construction of these hydropower plants is a major project for the Slovenian economy and for the suspense economy to offer quite a few jobs. Otherwise a smaller number for an indefinite period of time, but many jobs where workers will be employed for at least 16 years when these hydropower plants are being built. Every job is still welcome. Slovenians will also have to decide, because in every case there is a million interests, there are always opponents. And if we ask ourselves what kind of energy we want to have in Slovenia, of course we want electricity, we want it when we need it to be included in the plug, but the problem will be if there is no electricity in this socket. We're Slovenians against the nuclear power plant, if we need a nuclear power plant by chance, we'll say, no, no, no, no, we can't get rid of it now that we have it, but it's welcome. We're against the wind power plant. Wherever the location is to set up wind power plants, no, we're against it, there's always a civil initiative. Of course we are against thermal power plants, those irregularities must be regulated by the judicial authorities, while we must be aware that TES is largely addressing the needs of electricity in Slovenia. And given that electricity consumption will increase significantly over the coming years, because we know, yeah, traffic, it will go to electric cars, it will be a significant increase in consumption. Therefore, all these matters will have to be settled and no one will ask where we will get this if we do not build the hydropower plants, as we have in the coalition contract, that the state has said that we will do everything and we do not even meet these European requirements, and we have signed that we will. Building these hydro power plants would not achieve this goal in 2020, but if we do not start now, in just four years' time, these sanctions will be, and we will pay them for more years. Someone's gonna be responsible for that. A lot of readings have flown to the Ministry of Environment and Space, which I do not agree with. The original sin, believe me, is at the Ministry of Infrastructure. I had already said that a concession contract had been drawn up in 2015 and Minister Gasperšič admitted that the case had stopped there. Soldier, you can laugh and things are, documents are. I read them, I don't mean it. And these fears that the matter is wrong, that this law is not in accordance with the directive and so on, of course this does not hold true, which will also be demonstrated in the future. When I went to prepare and announce this law, on the other hand, some activities had only moved. Some of the claims that used to be that it's not worth it, and so on, have now turned the board. Now all of a sudden, it's profitable to build these electrical facilities. At the Zasavska Forum in Trbovje, Director-General Matjaž Marolt ensured that in 2022 HSE will have sufficient cash flow to allow for the start and full construction of hydro power plants on the Central Sava. I'll be glad if it does, but I'm just wondering if it's been done so little in the last 13 years. The aim of Zasavk and Zasavčanov is to build these hydroelectric plants as soon as possible. The energy location for which the Government has decided to keep it in Zasavje cannot, of course, be the electrical location of what is left of the Termoelectric Trbovlje. HES has now set up a new company HSE, the Energy Company Trbovlje. The last time we heard from this Zasavska forum was what might have been there. But these are the things we've been listening to in Zasavje for 20 years. Now would actually be the time to say that in this area of the thermoelectric power plant we will build this and that. But these are stories that have been repeated several times. It was said to give ideas about what was actually going to happen there. While these are bad prospects, I hope that something will be done in this area in the future. I appeal to Members when there will be a vote on this law, I am sure, and others are convinced that they have expressed their support that it is good and transparent to allow these hydro power plants to be built on the Central Sava. On the issue of controversy, as I said before, environmental organisations, the first three hydropower plants Suhadol, Trbovlje, Renke from an environmental point of view are not problematic. This was also acknowledged in their letter. 6 out of 9 is in Natura 2000, and these are the higher upstream against Ljubljana. But if the law is adopted, this does not mean that it will now be inconsistent with this legislation and that once the state spatial plans for individual hydropower plants are in place, measures will have to be put in place to protect these animal species, such as this dwarf mentioned. I am optimistic, and I hope that the support of this law will be confirmed tomorrow. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u117	Gradually, Mrs. Janja Sluga. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would really like you to respond to such an implementation by a fellow Hršek who mentions a fellow Member who has not even had a word today. When he directly addresses her, she knows exactly that she cannot answer that question. It has been very clear and repeatedly communicated, which ministry is the one that is guilty of not having made such a reality yet. Since the beginning of the mandate, the Ministry of Environment and Space has been delaying the submission of documents concerning the concession in the Government. That was very clearly communicated. The President of the Government himself personally invited the Minister twice to submit written, prepared documents to the Government, and despite the direct invitation of Minister Desus's Minister, she did not do so. So I ask you kindly to warn me of such deception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Before I give you my word, Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, let me just inform you that five Members and Members of Parliament have actually come to the debate from 29 applicants. That is why I think there was more than one possibility that we could discuss this. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to close the debate unless it's mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar thinks you need to get a word on a procedural proposal. Procedural proposal, Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I would like to draw my own attention to the very inappropriate behaviour of Mrs Shergan and Mr Zorčič. While Member Hršak spoke, they were cutting themselves very inappropriately, we can say, there from their own food, and that in a loud voice, so that we all heard. For this reason, I would ask you to point out such inappropriate conduct for a second time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u121	Thank you for all your views. I suggest you sign up for the debate, there will be a time-sharing if you agree. Okay. Just let me take a step back and read everything that's necessary. All the advertised debaters and debaters you wanted got the floor. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. That's why I'm inviting you to report. The application shall be made. First of all, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u122	Thank you, Chairman. To begin with, let me continue where colleague Janja earlier mentioned Minister Desusa Mrs Irena Majcen. I have before me a draft concession contract concluded by the Republic of Slovenia, represented by the Minister of Environment and Space Irena Majcen, as a concessionary, and Holding the Slovenian Power Plant. Now I would like to ask why the Minister does not wish to sign this contract. We need to talk about two things. One is to consider the proposal for the law of colleague Hršek. During the term of office, particularly intensively in the last year and a half, negotiations are under way to harmonise the latest developments in this project. I'm talking about the first three hydro power plants in the Central Sava, and these are Suhadol, Trbovlje and Renke, which are not controversial. Even with regard to the sultan and these matters, there is no dispute. And they're the cheapest. Isn't that interesting? The concession contracts, Minister Irena Majcen, her department, do not hold what proposed by Mr Hršak, the infrastructure is not a party to this contract. But here's a document that's already been prepared in the government. He's standing. Four papers are ready. The negotiations are still under way. But apparently it's someone else, Desus and Mr Hršek, who's interested in something very different. This law is against local communities. Let me just read the decision of 13 February 2018, namely the Development Council of the Sava region. It is three municipalities: Zagorje, Trbovlje, Hrastnik. The decision is clear. This proposal does not support the law. They want more information and then all individual councils will discuss it and the existing law does not support it. Why? All three congregations, all three local communities, have so far been involved in all the negotiations that took place in the government. That's why an ad hoc bill brings interest somewhere else. First, the law says that it is all ten hydropower plants, Suhadol, Trbovlje, Renke, Renovice, Kresnice, Jevnica, Stock, Šentjakob, Gameljne, Tacen, 50 years we will not have these power plants if we do so. The law is talking about it. Yes, the first three are not controversial about environmentalists. But they are still against Ljubljana, which I have listed, including the Games, Tacna and so on, and these are controversial. Here, however, these things will need to be discussed a little more widely and some other stakeholders will need to be asked. But we're talking about the first three that aren't controversial. The law speaks of all power plants. So we're trying to block it out. That's how you get me to do it. Hydro power plants in Central Savi, continuation of the project. This was made by HSE, d.o.o., Andrej Vizjak does not talk about any law, but points out how this project would continue. It must be signed first. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Time's up. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Did you want the procedure? I'm afraid you can't do the replica. Mr. Igor Zorčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. If I get involved in this debate, why didn't the concession agreement come to an end? I think that all these discussions that were before me, even my colleague Dolinsk, are in place and that the situation is already witnessing in itself where to look for responsibility for this. So the coalition contract is at the Ministry of Environment and Space. The fact is, it's not concluded. The fact is that the President of the Government supports the conclusion of the concession contract, but apparently there is no will at the Ministry. Last but not least, it's showing today. You know, we had two parliamentary laws today. One before that was about the housing problem of young people, and the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment were here, but they are not at this point. I think that this is, in itself, more than eloquent enough and that, in fact, it is necessary to look for answers to the question why it has not moved so far with the concession contract, at the Ministry of Environment and Space. They didn't say anything about it. They didn't say it was a bad solution or anything. Apparently they're waiting from some sort of computer, I don't know, maybe even pre-election on what's going to happen to this law. Our concern, however, is still in this direction that the system could jeopardise the award of the concession already granted in 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u125	Mr Ivan Hršak wishes to do so in a procedural manner. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u126	I've said this before, and apparently I've been overheared on purpose or deliberately that those proposals that did not go through the board of government law enforcement. And reservations to the signing of this treaty are contained in a content that goes beyond the content of the Water Act. And all this was confirmed by the government's law enforcement office. That's why it's not going any further. That's the point. Do not overtake the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space if the government's legislative service for these proposals, which are here, has failed. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u127	Mr. Ivan Hršak, you have unfortunately abused this procedural proposal. You didn't pass it. [[advertising from the hall]] I know, I understand, but I suggest we close the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Thursday, 23 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. Marca, in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts the 18th item of the agenda. We're moving to 29. On the eve of the day, the proposal recommended to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the support of the EU of Payments. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Andrej Čuš. The proposal for a recommendation is at the 52nd session of the 8th session. 3. 2018, treated by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the point of the proposal after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Europeans are supposed to have the best quality of life in relation to other countries around the world. The quality of life is certainly also helped by the height of wages, since it allows people to buy things that improve their standard of living in addition to the necessities of survival. Otherwise, all that is pointed out in the proposal is true. Slovenia has seen excellent economic growth for the fifth year in a row, with one of the highest GDP growth in the European Union. Despite the favourable economic conditions, the growing profits of companies, and the increase in productivity, growth is still not reflected in the higher salaries of workers and workers and the well-being of all citizens and citizens. We have to ask ourselves how we have socially responsible business owners in Slovenia and why the competent ministries do not want to see to it that the whole society is given a good standard of living that economic indicators allow. Let me point out that the financial and economic crisis, which has also turned into a social crisis, has not been caused by workers, nor by pensioners, nor by the public sector, teachers, firefighters, doctors and other health personnel, soldiers and police, nor by small craftsmen and entrepreneurs. It was caused by economic elites associated with certain policies that could not stop appetites for tycoons, bankers and lobbyists in relation to individual policies. Politics then took care of the excessive filling of the bank hole with the bankers, as we found at the New Maribor Credit Bank, again at the expense of ordinary people, including pensioners. It is unacceptable that today's profits are distributed only by the economy and elites, and the burden of the crisis has been borne by ordinary people. Of course, in the Desus Group, we believe that something is wrong in our country, that it is happening, but we have seen and heard capital responses. Unfortunately, on the other hand, there were no appropriate measures by some members of our Government responsible for the economy, finance and work in creating a socially responsible economy, adequate tax policy, decent minimum wages and pensions, as well as seeking social dialogue. I underline the social dialogue and all the negotiations currently under way or under way in the context of the public sector wage system, which I think is on foot, also because of the great fragmentation and unanimity of trade unions. And where are the real-sector unions, is there anything going on? The wage policy and the level of wages per country are very different because of the various factors, including weak unions, and also because wages are relatively high-taxed or contributed to us, while the incomes are the most profitable among the lowest taxed in the EU. Why are profits, assets, rents, financial transactions and other income the most profitable among the lowest taxed in the European Union? It is nice to hear that the average wage in Austria is net EUR 2 000 300, but it is also true that the worker does not get the cost of eating and transporting to work there. PPav thus maintains that our average net salary is only EUR 1000. However, the standard of living costs is approximately the same in both countries. It is also true that the employer's wage contributions for social security are half lower than that paid by the worker for social security. The employer's low contributions are also an anomaly of the pay system. Ambassador Andrej Čuš clearly wishes to draw attention to the problem of low wages in relation to the distribution of wealth in Slovenia and elsewhere in Europe. In the Desus Group, however, we are aware of the differences and consequences of this problem. Unfortunately, we note that the proposed recommendation to the Government, even if adopted, would not affect what would be happening in the area of the pay system. Neither the Government of the Republic of Slovenia nor any other government in the European Union has any influence on the mechanism of citizen participation in the European Union in such initiatives. It is only the citizens who can contribute enough signatures to initiate the process of amending and adopting legal acts at the level of the European Union. Only this can result in the adoption of internal rules and measures in individual Member States. This means that the Desus Group cannot support such recommendations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u129	Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Friends and colleagues, hello! At the outset, we would like to point out that we do not oppose the content of the initiative, but we cannot support the Government on the basis of the opinion of the Rule of Law and the opinion, because this is an initiative that needs the support of citizens at this time. This is a citizens' initiative presented to the European Commission, which must be supported by at least one million eligible signatories from at least one quarter of all Member States. However, it follows from the definition of eligible signatories that he has the right to support the citizens' initiative, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who is old enough to vote in elections to the European Parliament. In May 2017, the Commission placed the initiative on the list of citizens' initiatives and began to run a one-year deadline for the collection of signatures. If the initiative receives sufficient support in May 2018, the Commission has undertaken to take account of the initiative when amending the Employment Guidelines and the European Social Fund in its work on the geographical and professional mobility of workers. The pay union is a European initiative of political parties of the centre, unions and individuals. The objective of the initiative is to reduce economic and wage inequalities between Western and Eastern Member States of the European Union. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service states: "The National Assembly is recommending measures for the work of public authorities, organisations and individuals who perform public services or exercise public powers. From the point of view of the nature of the act under consideration, it should be added that the recommendation does not create legal effects and is therefore not classified as legal but as political acts." End of story. It is a proposal from the government to support the Payment Union initiative. The explanation describes the social economic situation, as reflected by income and wealth in Europe, highlights wage inequality, the normative irregularity of the minimum wage in the European Union or income inequality in Slovenia. On the basis of the content presented in the proposal, the Legislative and Legal Service, in its opinion, notes that the content of the proposal is flawed, as it mainly describes the actual situation on which it is based, or refers to certain facts as reasons for its adoption, and therefore points out that the proposal for a recommendation does not contain proposals for measures for the work of public authorities, organisations and individuals performing public services or exercising public powers, but rather a proposal for support for individual efforts. As stated by the Government in its opinion, the initiative under the mechanism laid down in the basic Treaties of the European Union is an initiative of the citizens of the European Union and in particular requires the support of the citizens of the European Union. Government structures have no role to play. That is why the European Commission, the European Parliament and other institutions of the European Union are not defined for the initiative, nor are individual Member States. Only citizens can do this right now. Therefore, a call is made for them, and a proposal for a recommendation has been adopted in the National Assembly, which, in addition to its content, does not even meet all the elements which the recommendation must contain and would not have a real effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u131	Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. Let me begin with the question: Who would not want to reduce wage differences between individual Member States of the European Union? But this idea is unfortunately in direct contravention of the nature of the European Union. Taking into account its regulation, in the core of the common monetary union with the euro, it is clear that such an initiative is totally utopian and the effects will only be possible if the proposaler is promoted, which is not here anyway. Relations between the euro area countries are strongly competitive relations, where social dumping plays a major role. Since the European Union has taken the reins of fiscal and monetary policy, they can adapt to the loss of competitiveness or to cyclical economic fluctuations through the so-called internal devaluation, i.e. the reduction of labour costs and cuts to the social state. In other words, social dumping or large wage differences are a key component of the European Union. Due to this competitive competition, the European Union can be the world's largest trading partner. Of course, we do not want such a European Union in the Left. However, two details should be kept in mind in such initiatives as the Pay Union. Firstly, the level of wages depends on the ratio of labour to capital. They're determined by the class fight. However, wage differences also depend on the historical development of the economy, as well as some other traditional influences. Another time. The State may determine the minimum wage. In this mandate, we have repeatedly proposed in Levika that the minimum wage should be raised to 700 nets and that it becomes fair to exclude all the allowances from it. Member States still have competence in the social field or in regulating the labour market. In fact, we can start a completely different policy here immediately. And here Slovenia is already far behind. In the Czech Republic, for example, the minimum wage was raised by 17.4% in a year, by 48% in Romania. In Slovenia, too, we raised the minimum wage by more than 20% in 2009 and there was no end of the world. Even Latvia has stopped its extreme neoliberal policies in this area. The minimum wage has been raised to 13.2 %. We had a 4.7% raise this year. So we have the scissors and the canvas at least as regards the minimum wage in our hands of Members and Members, and our proposals, with the exception of one party, have not been supported by anyone in the National Assembly. However, we have heard a great deal about the excessive taxes, especially the taxation of wages. Of course, it is not taxes, but mainly social contributions. However, critics from the right and the middle never say that the common tax burden on wages in Slovenia is on the European average. One question for all advocates of the so-called tax burden. How many people have moved out of Latvia and from the so-called Baltic Tigers in the last decade? It is in these countries that neoliberal tax and other policies have been most extremely introduced in recent decades. Among other things, they have a uniform contribution rate in Latvia. I'll help with the answer. Latvia had 2.4 million inhabitants in 2000, and today it has 1.95 million. In less than two decades, she lost half a million people, leaving 20 percent of the population. In short, these neoliberal policies, introduced by the two right governments and the government of the extreme centre, poor workers and workers and these measures drive young people and others out of our country. As a result of these measures, Slovenia is also the country with the greatest flexibility. Our answer in Levica is very simple: minimum wage of at least €700, hospital also for holiday workers and workers, strengthening the Labour Inspectorate. Three simple steps to start, but the right and the extreme environment cannot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u133	Ms Janja Slug will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The objective of the Pay Union initiative is to eliminate wage imbalances in the European Union and consequently the same payment for equal work becomes one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. The proponent states in his explanation that the socio-economic gap in Europe has been on the rise in recent decades, while the high and growing inequality has damaged the cohesion of our societies. As a result, it is difficult to talk about a single European model and, in response to this initiative, the pay union aims to reduce wage inequalities between EU Member States. The huge wage gap is a fundamental injustice that leads to negotiations on the emigration of the labour force to the West and East and Central Europe to an unsustainable situation. There is no doubt that the initiative is addressing current challenges and it is right to discuss these issues. As a society, we must show an interest in resolving wage inequalities within EU Member States also because not all EU members have yet a statutory minimum wage. This is the first step towards the realization of one of the key principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights in order to ensure adequate minimum wages which, according to national economic and social conditions, enable the needs of workers and their families to be met while ensuring access to employment and motivation to find work. We welcome the fact that wage inequality is addressed as such, but we must also be aware that the picture is wider and that when we talk about economic social cohesion, we need to take into account the broader context. This is mainly taking into account the demographic challenges facing modern societies. In addition, it should be stressed that modern societies are moving into a period of the fourth industrial revolution, which will have a decisive impact on the labour market around the world. The study of the World Economic Forum points to 7.1 million lost jobs, and in this context countries will have to find solutions or responses to the challenges posed by the Fourth Industrial Revolution in a timely manner. At this point, however, I would also like to highlight the data from the European Semester on wage inequality in Slovenia. In Slovenia, wage inequality is among the lowest in the European Union. In Slovenia we also have a relatively low gender employment gap. However, it should also be stressed that the initiative under the mechanism laid down in the basic Treaties of the European Union is an initiative of the citizens of the European Union and therefore requires the support of citizens in the first place. The mechanism for citizens' participation in policy development is based on the support of one million EU citizens from at least a quarter of the Member States, which is a prerequisite for initiating the amendment of the European Union's legal acts. Therefore, government structures have no role to play in view of the current situation, as the signatures to support the initiative are being collected by May 2018. The minimum number of votes in Slovenia is 6 000. To date, a thousand 412 Slovenians voted in favour of the initiative. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we support the elimination of wage inequality, and in particular the principle of equal pay for equal work. However, given that the commitment to take account of the initiative in the event of a sufficient number of votes raised at EU level and not at the level of the Republic of Slovenia is, of course, an issue that we must ask ourselves, for what purpose the Government must determine to the initiative under consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude the 29th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 30. On the eve of the day, the proposal recommended to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Andrej Čuš. At its 52nd meeting, on 8 March 2018, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons to be the working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the point of the proposal after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. She has the floor as the first Group of Social Democrats for her, Mrs Marija Bachič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u136	Once again, presidents, thank you very much for your words and welcome all present. Today, we will repeat what we have already done twice in this mandate, and that is that this proposal for a recommendation raises significantly more important questions about the organisation, involvement and functioning of our society than may at first appear in a text that speaks only of the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council. It is likely that the applicant has not yet considered the importance of redefining industrial relations in a society that has long been based not only on classical relations between factory workers, between the office capitalist and the castle authorities. Young people can sit like this today and do so on all three sides represented. In the Economic and Social Council they can be young entrepreneurs and thus employers, they can be young employees and thus those who represent them, or they can even be union representatives themselves, and they can be elected representatives of the government. In an ideal situation, therefore, there would be a proposal where young people have only one place in the Economic and Social Council, even a step back. In our view, therefore, such proposals do not understand this intergenerational component, nor do they understand the basic purpose of establishing and operating the Economic and Social Council. It is therefore in the interest of young people to be represented on all three sides, not only on one side. To hear the interest of young entrepreneurs as well as the interest of young employees, as well as those who do not have jobs, who receive fine forms of work or who are still struggling to enter the labour market. We cannot and must not try to disrupt key solidarity and cooperation between groups that are actually pursuing very similar, if not the same objectives. Thus both the Youth Council of Slovenia and the Association of Retired Associations strive for a sustainable pension system that will allow everyone a decent pension in the long term. We anticipate that all three parties are also making a fair and equal effort to pay for a decent job. Given the growing importance of civil society and the legitimacy of the wider social consensus it brings, it is expected that civil society will be increasingly involved in social partnership in the future. The Economic and Social Council has also changed its rules of operation, which stipulate that representatives of different interest groups and individual experts, as well as youth representatives, may also be invited to each meeting of the Economic and Social Council. Rejecting the proposal does not therefore mean that young people are not supported in the Economic and Social Council, but rather means understanding the possibility of sitting on all three sides, on the employers' side, on the workers' side and also on the government's side.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u137	Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman. Exactly a year ago, we considered the exact same proposal by Mr Andrej Couch. In Levica, I remain in the position that the problem for young people is not that they are not included in the Economic and Social Council. The problem for young people is that they are not honestly and dignifiedly integrated into the labour market and thus into a wider society. They are not included in the distribution of social wealth, they do not have access to safe, stable jobs, even though they exist. Youths are pushed to a chasm, making it impossible to plan for the future. Youths are forced by the ideology of entrepreneurship and flexibility. Such expectations, however, translate into poverty, uncertainty, dependence, and unpredictability in the lives of young people. Young people are not included in society in a way that respects their knowledge and work in order to receive a decent payment and security that would enable a normal, stable, worth living. The problem with young people is housing. An inaccessible apartment keeps them dependent on their parents, making it impossible for them to be independent. The problem of young people is project employment, work through espies, part-time and voluntary work, and other forms of leisure work that drains young people, does not include them in working groups, taking them creative energy that could be directed towards improving society, to progress. When we empower young people economically and socially, when we provide them with suitable, decent and safe jobs, when we create an environment where young people will not have to rush from one job to another, when we create conditions that young people will not have to live hand in hand when they can afford their own lives, then this will also prove to be an improved political and civil participation. Therefore, the problem for young people is not that they do not have a representative in the ESF. One member of a government negotiating group under the age of 30 cannot legally represent all young people in Slovenia. Let's stop pretending that young people are indivisible stakeholders. They're not. We have as young as older representatives of such and different social groups and interest associations. We have young right-wings, we have young left-wings, then young propagandists of church morality, young capitalists, young workers, young greens, young neoliberals, young entrepreneurs, young socialists, and more. In short, there are as many representatives among young people as there are in the society of stakeholders and conflict situations. Young people need to engage in politics on the basis of their political views, based on their interests. Even if we attach a fictitious uniform interest to all young people, it is questionable whether this hypothetical interest of young people would actually represent such a member. As a member of the government, I would represent the government. The ESF is also not a body that represents the interests of all averages. In the Economic and Social Council, the interests of employers, i.e. capital, the interests of workers and the interests of the Government, i.e. politics or public interest theory, are represented. Currently, the language on the scale of representation between work and capital in the current composition of the ESF is strongly anti-capitalised. Such representation has its effects in the policies of belt tightening, reducing the scope of public services, increasing the exaggeration and liberalisation of the labour market, cuts to the social state and in the social and tax policies that target the weakest, while rewarding the richest in the country. For this reason, we believe that the membership of so-called young people is not essential or necessary or does not contribute in any way to improving the sub-representation of work in social dialogue, as is done in the ESF. In Levika, we oppose the populist proposal made by Ambassador Andrej Couch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u139	Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is the third time we have considered the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government concerning the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council, tabled by Mr Andrej Čuš. As for the first and second time, when the debate was on this subject, I will stress that in 2014, on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, we unanimously adopted a decision imposing on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the proposed extension of the Economic and Social Council with representatives of young people If the social partners did not agree, the Government should itself seek the opportunity to involve young people in the Economic and Social Council. This decision is still not realistic and, given the circumstances, everything shows that it will not. This will be another of the many things the next government will have to do. It's sad. Nevertheless, the purpose of the recommendation that is before us today is to support the unconnected Members' Group. By the way, everything can be done if it wants to. Where there is will, there is a way, they say. And that's how it is. With a fellow MP, Mag. Alenko Bratušek took matters into our own hands and amended laws already ago regulating health and pension insurance in the work where they determine membership in the assembly or the world of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Pension Insurance of Slovenia and succeeded. This is how young people today take the floor in decisions concerning their future and young people's representatives were able to attend for the first time in the second half of February as a member of the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. All too often we hear that young people are our future and that the world stands on them. Are those our words honest, too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u141	Ms Anita Koleša will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Mr Andrej Čuš to the Government makes a recommendation regarding the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council, arguing that young people are not directly involved in social dialogue and, as a result, no one defends their interests and rights. The proposal for a recommendation has been tabled in the legislative procedure for the third time in this mandate. At the meeting of the home committee, the Members of the MP Group of the Modern Centre's recommendation were once again rejected because the proposal is identical to those of the two we discussed last year. And our arguments are, logically, identical. In doing so, I stress that in the Modern Centre Party we strongly support the active involvement of young people in society, as we are well aware of the important role they play in society, especially in shaping its future. In order to make it easier for young people to understand why we voted against the recommendation that the Government appoint a youth representative as members of the Economic and Social Council to re-present our arguments, The Economic and Social Council is, by its very nature, a space for industrial relations, where negotiations between trade unions, workers' representatives and the Government are taking place in the context of social dialogue. The Economic and Social Council is therefore a tripartite body in which representatives of all three sides are equally represented. The rules of action of the Council allow, therefore, for young, older and other stakeholders to be present at meetings addressing important intergenerational issues. However, as the Legislative and Legal Service has already warned in its opinions, it is not clear exactly what the proposer wishes to achieve with a recommendation. Was it his intention to represent young people as a member of the world as one of the government’s representatives in the world, or was it his purpose to change the composition of the world in such a way as to make young people an equal partner in social dialogue? Young people as a social group are not homogeneous and have different interests. The question of how could all these diverse interests and views be represented within the Economic and Social Council, of course, remain. Within the ESF, social dialogue is taking place, which is an important value for us, and we attach great importance to the agreements reached with the social partners on important issues. It is therefore crucial that the social partners reach an agreement on important issues in the field of economic and social policy. We all know that such arrangements cannot be reached overnight. Coordination and approximation take a lot of effort and time. By allowing young people full membership in the Economic and Social Council, this should also enable other social groups. It is simply difficult to imagine how social dialogue would be achieved, or even more important, how long it would take for all social groups involved in the ESF to reach agreement on important issues that must be based on the consent of all social partners. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware that dialogue with civil society is important in coordinating attitudes and decision-making, regardless of which social group it is, but in this case a different solution or cooperation should be considered and not necessarily on the involvement of civil society through full or associate membership in the Economic and Social Council. Obviously, this is not an option for a proposaler who is not even that respectful of Members and obviously not the young people he is referring to, so that he will at least be present at this meeting at this point of the agenda. It's sad!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u143	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u144	Thank you for saying so, President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support a proposal that we have already voted on by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and has unfortunately been voted on in a way that young people will not get their representative in the Economic and Social Council This is a red thread throughout the entire mandate of the Government of Mir Cerar, which is not only a lost opportunity in general, but especially for young people, nothing has been done. Thus, within three days this will be the third proposal to be voted against. First, yesterday you took away the status of a non-governmental organization from the Youth Council of Slovenia, and tomorrow you will have two votes directly as regards young people. One is the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party to address the housing problem of young people and the other is to involve young people in the Economic and Social Council. If anything is sad, it is sad that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not follow the decisions taken by the committees of this National Assembly. The National Assembly is over the government. The National Assembly is the one who loves the government that elects the Prime Minister. If the National Assembly orders something to the government, then the government should do it. And I don't understand how a committee can vote for a measure or something to be imposed on the Government after the Government has not done so, and in this case one of the Members does so, but it is voted in a different way than was voted on when the committee decision was voted on. We are missing an excellent opportunity to involve young people in active decision-making on important social issues. We often talk about the apathy of young people, that political participation among young people is a major problem, but young people are rightly asking themselves why we should go to elections, why we should decide anything at all, but if we cannot actually decide because we are not seen, we are not heard, and above all we are not heard. Even if they're ever young, they're heard. With the exception of one draft law prepared by the Student Organisation of Slovenia and tabled by one of the Members and was later adopted, he also summarized some of the solutions that had already been proposed but had not been voted on, then in this law they were somehow corrected, and no law was adopted that would actually bring something to the young people. I don't speak in a financial sense. The fact that the Youth Council is a non-governmental organisation, that young people have their own representative in the Economic and Social Council, ladies and gentlemen, will not break any dialogue, will not undermine any pay system, and above all this will have no financial implications. And that's what's most important. There is not one valid argument that I could buy in order not to vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Obviously, it will take years, or a few more years, to actually include young people. It is also interesting that, on the one hand, the ruling party is speaking or its candidate for president has been talking about how to give young people electoral rights at 16 years of age, and the matter is much more complex than to involve a young person in the Economic and Social Council. The Economic and Social Council is talking about the future. It identifies measures concerning the future not only of the medium population, not only of pensioners, especially of young people who will go through all stages of life, from the beginning of work to the middle of retirement. I think that, therefore, we should have the opportunity to take all the measures taken by the Government in Slovenia, whether left or right, to accept that they are also defined and to say their own. Not with pear messages, not with press releases, which is, of course, legal, legitimate and also right, but to say so in a decision-making body or in an authority where there is room for it. The Economic and Social Council is certainly such a space and is such an organ. We support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u145	The word is also given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice welcome to all those present who have endured this final debate. When the student falls twice on the exam, and also for the third time repeats the same mistakes, I believe that as a teacher alone she would not have a good opinion of him, and I would probably seriously board him. We expect Members and Members to change positions just as we do today, and we will confirm tomorrow or tomorrow something that is being submitted after the failure of the first, second, third, attempt literally to force, with the position of most of the legislative body being negative, it is mildly said that I am not saying any more inappropriately. Today, for the third time, we are in a hurry around the same point and content. Clearly, this time too, there will be no positive epilogue. Nevertheless, allow me to repeat in the third instance the position of the Desus Group on the proposal that young people become part of the Economic and Social Council. The Economic and Social Council is, like in other countries, designed as a three-partite body with a uniform representation of three stakeholders. This is the government or if you want authorities, workers' representatives and employers' representatives. In the context of the formulation of opinions and decision-making, this formal tripartite composition may be complemented by a fourth component, as there are also various non-governmental organisations and interest associations that have the opportunity to participate in public debates and other ways to co-form legislative proposals. Of course, there are young people among them. To this end, we have established something, let me put it this way, youth organizations. These are the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, the Youth Council of Slovenia, the Student Organization of Slovenia. All these stakeholders can also contribute through the Economic and Social Council to the resolution of various problems and legislative texts, as they can already be invited to participate by the Economic and Social Council. Furthermore, in the Desus Group, we said that the logical consequence of the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council would also be the membership of older representatives. Our client advocates intergenerational respect and cooperation. In fact, we are a party that has in its programme and efforts the well-being of all generations. From here, our Desus password for all generations. Also among Desus' membership are people from all generations, from youth to students to pensioners. We know that young people with their knowledge and life - energy and older populations with their knowledge, experiences, and life - wisdom can be an excellent complement. Therefore, in these recommendations, we were also struck by the fact that the applicant was not so consistent that in his recommendation to involve young people in the Economic and Social Council, he tried to include even older people, although it is known that the Slovenian Youth Council and the Student Organisation of Slovenia have called on the Government and the social partners to join the Economic and Social Council of both generations. Under point 4, let me repeat once again that in our Desus Group, despite the fact that he carries the word "retired" in the name, we never excluded young people. They're young, as we say, and so are our members. We have always, as well as representatives of other civil initiatives, listened and tried to take their ideas, proposals, comments into account when adopting legislation. And so it will be in the future. In view of the fact that, in fact, it has been repeated since the previous two readings of this Recommendation, I should like to conclude once again that the proposal by the Member of the Council in our opinion is not suitable for further consideration, and we therefore agree with the decision taken by the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-39.ana.u147	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. This concludes the 30th item of the agenda. I'm adjourning the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. At the same time, I inform you that a joint meeting of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space will be held in a large salon in 15 minutes.
