ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franc Trček, Mrs Mateja Udovč from 17.30 p.m., Mr Gregor Židan from 7.30 p.m. and Mr Igor Zorčič to 13 p.m. I salute all present politely! We're moving on to 24. Period of the day, that is to say the proposal of a candidate for a minister without resources suitable for development, strategic projects and cohesion. On 28 November 2018, the President of the Government of Marjan Šarec proposed to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 112(1) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that he appoint Dr Iztok Purič as the Minister without the Ministry responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Marjan Sarc, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! You have before you the decision on the new Minister for Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion of Dr. Iztok Puric. He has a challenging task ahead of him. I would be in front of every candidate, regardless of name, and this is a sign of progress in drawing on European funds, although I must say that the funds for this year have been resolved, this is where progress has been made. Slovenia must once and for all wake up from these dreams of how Europe will solve all the problems or finance various projects, and we ourselves have not always been the most skilled to make the most of all the money available to us. If we're going anywhere, then when we're pulling, we're going to go all the way to the last one. I also had experience at the level of local self-government. Therefore, I repeat, the statistics drawn on must be reversed, because the data are inexcusable. At the end of last year, Slovenia was significantly lagging behind after the share of the total use of the current financial framework between the last five countries and after four years in view of the previous financial perspective. Therefore, the successful use of European funds must be a priority for the minister, not least the Government's priority. I'm not hiding that my expectations for the new minister are high. I am aware of the comments made on the account of the operation and integration of information systems, but above all, this is more about the competence of people than the system itself. These are the latest data. The first review of the situation is now being prepared, an action plan on future steps as well. Now is the time for action. It will be necessary to focus first on the elimination of the gap between the payments already made from the State budget and the requests for reimbursement from the European Treasury, and then it will be necessary to accelerate the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy. I believe that all existing knowledge, experience and leadership skills will help the candidate. I also followed the choices of the Party of Alenka Bratušek in view of the assurances given to me by Iztok Purič, namely, that he will work hard, all the work at the Ministry will be glass or running. As I understand from the candidate's presentation to the parent boards, he realizes that he will not run out of tasks, he will also bet on teamwork and he will not brag until the results have been achieved. I therefore propose, honourable Members and Members, that you give him an opportunity by election. It also says that European resources are essential for development. Mr. Puritch, I wish you a lot of results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself at a joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Union Affairs on 3 December 2018 and responded to questions raised by the members and members of the two Committees. You have received the Joint Report and the opinion of the Committees. It follows from the latter that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. The Joint Report of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Union Affairs will be presented by Mr Gregor Perič, President of the Committee on the Economy and member of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you for your word! Mr President, the Council of Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on the Economy and the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union as the competent bodies has prepared a report, namely the President of the Government, Marjan Sarec, on 28 November 2018, to the President of the National Assembly of Mags. He forwarded the proposal to the candidate for a minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, in which he proposed that the State Council for Ministers be appointed by Dr Iztok Purič. On 3 December, Dr Iztok Purič presented himself to the members and members of both committees and answered their questions. In his opening presentation, the candidate presented his current academic career path, highlighting his long-standing experience in human resources services, where he stressed the motivation of employees as a key element of the performance of each organisation or activity. In particular, he highlighted his employment in the Public Economics Institute of Brdo, where, among other things, as a long-standing director, he contributed to one of the greatest achievements of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, namely to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2008. He agreed with his candidacy because he believes that with his experience, both research and work in internal organisational processes and management, he will contribute to better and more efficient management of European cohesion policy in Slovenia. The Minister's candidate also referred to his awareness of the issue of cohesion funds by representatives of local self-government, where relations and views differ from national level. It has identified its priorities in the following points: the e-MA information system, which must follow all the requirements of European cohesion policy, the preparation of measures to remove obstacles that prevent effective pumping and reduction of damage that can result from the slow response of the SVRK, the functioning of the SVRK as an effective service, which can be achieved through effective organisation, motivated co-workers and modern information technology. The SVRK should function as an effective coordinator between stakeholders in the implementation of cohesion policy, a programme framework for a new financial perspective, where all, coalition, opposition, the National Assembly and the Government will together have to determine the direction of cohesion policy in the future. He further stressed that European cohesion funds are almost the only development funds in Slovenia and that we need to make full use of them. The candidate believes that this programming period, like the previous one, will be successfully completed as one of the most successful countries in drawing on cohesion funds. In doing so, he highlighted as a key element the team spirit and knowledge in the SVRK, which will focus on the objectives set. It estimates that it can and can contribute to improving the state of cohesion policy in Slovenia through its experience. It also highlighted the removal of obstacles to the functioning of the information system and all factors that slow down the use of European cohesion funds. The candidate stressed that the role of the SVRK is seen as a co-ordinator among all stakeholders in the implementation of cohesion policy, including ministries, the National Assembly, local communities, regional development agencies and universities, with a commitment to the same objective and constructive cooperation as a precondition for the successful achievement of the objective. The Committee on the Economy, by 8 votes and 3 against, and by 8 votes against, the Committee on European Union Affairs, adopted by 8 votes to, and 4 votes to, the opinion that the presentation of Dr. Iztok Purič as a candidate for a Minister without a Director responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you so much for the word. Dear Members, Members, President of the Government, Minister's Team, all of you, welcome! Two months have passed, and it has already been decided that one of the ministers must resign. Of course, we understand the reason and agree with the fact that Mr Bandelli's communication for a person acting as Minister was, of course, totally inappropriate. However, his way of communicating, especially through social networks, was known before his appointment, and that did not seem problematic to Mr Sharpe at that time. Today we have an exchange on the agenda of the Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. Although it is a non-resource minister, this area is particularly important due to the fact that it is a minister covering the area, which, of course, also includes the drawing of European funds. Especially with the fact that pumping in the current financial perspective is extremely poor, as we have recently discussed at an extraordinary meeting here in the National Assembly. Slovenia is eligible for European cohesion policy funding of €3.1 billion in 2014-2020. Of this to date, we have absorbed only 15% of the funds. You can point out other numbers here, you can point out how many contracts have been signed, but anyway, the fact is only one thing, we can only talk about exhausted funds when we actually get them back into the Slovenian budget of the European Union. And this has to date been extremely small from the current financial perspective. We also hear many times the sentence that the financial perspective does not end in 2020, that we have an additional 3 years at our disposal. Of course, that is true, but it must also be realized that those treaties that have already been signed do not have until 2023. And for a lot of projects, the hands are starting to run out. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are, of course, really worried about the loss of possible EUR 143 million of European funds. I don't know. Can you imagine 143 million? It's supposed to be an information system. Although we have heard otherwise today, it is somehow assured that this will not happen, that the reason is not only in the information system, but also in the skills of people. However, about the responsibility, why it actually happened, we have not heard anything until today. Why has nothing been done in the information system to date? Cerara's government, despite many promises here, has done absolutely nothing in this area. Today, when we have, I can't say otherwise than just an extended version of the previous government, of course, because of this fact, this is an extremely and justifiable concern. As we have recently learned from the media, the report received by the Prime Minister of the Government suggests that the public responsible at the Cohesion Ministry have been misleading with numbers on the effectiveness of the drawdown of funds, as well as not taking into account the warnings of the Minister of Finance and Audit Houses. It has also been learned from the media that those responsible for possibly losing these € 143 million and that we have such a catastrophically poor European resource flow in this financial perspective that these people are employed in the General Secretariat of the Sharč government. Mr President, will you take action on this? For Cerar's government, it was only more than obvious that we received the challenge of the development of Slovenia in 2050, it cost us half a million euros, and what we Slovenians did – that we will be truly happy in 2050! Yes, indeed, if not the other, those who have received these half million euros for this document will be happy. Mr Iztok Purič, a candidate for Minister, is certainly not an expert in drawing on funds, and he has not convinced us in his presentation to the Committee on European Affairs and also to the Committee on the Economy. His presentation was a stalemate; the answers to the questions raised were extremely general. He is aware of the problems with the information system, he sees this as one of the most difficult tasks, but respected, this is a task that should have been done and, however, for this task is no longer a long time. At the so-called hearing, the candidate for a minister stressed the importance of personal relations, the importance of the motivation of employees within the department, which is of course extremely important, there is no doubt about this, in particular in view of the past inaction of individual employees, who also have a possible loss of European funds. However, the future minister is no longer aware of the importance of cross-cutting coordination and, of course, the attitude to this topic by other sources. It is true that in this area, if any, the entire government team must act as one. While European funds are indeed under the auspices of the Government's Development and Cohesion Service, this cannot possibly be a matter of one ministry. We really hope that this will become a priority for the whole government and that the government will also be able to reach this inter-departmental agreement. In this area, in the past government, which we know is an enlarged government, we have an enlarged government today, there have been many problems in this area. If we do not act quickly and with concrete action, we do not promise to change this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Cohesion policy is the main investment policy of the EU, and for Slovenia, last but not least, it is the main source of investment that we have either at national or local level – here I think we are all united. The funds are aimed at creating new jobs, increasing competitiveness, sustainable development and, of course, improving the quality of life of citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we are constantly trying to improve this area and this situation, so we are warning of Slovenia's failure to draw on European funds through both parliamentary questions and by citing emergency meetings and also extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. We are aware that European funds for the country and for the local communities are the only development funds available to us. This is precisely why we should be extremely active in this area, if any. Finally, these funds can also make a significant contribution to reducing the excessive differences between regions in Slovenia. The main purpose of these European funds is to reduce the development gap, and it is therefore important that we benefit from European funds for this purpose and in these areas. We have not yet been successful in Slovenia in the current financial perspective. Because of all of this, of course, it is extremely important who is the person who will run this department. Unfortunately, I must say that the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have not convinced Mr Purič and therefore does not have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you for your position, Madam Ambassador. Dr Darij Krajčič on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! Mr Iztok Purič is a candidate for the Minister without a staff member under the quota of the Party Alenka Bratušek. He presented himself on competent working bodies, which is on the Committee on European Union Affairs and on the Committee on the Economy on 3 December this year. He highlighted years of experience in human resources services, where his work was based on the motivation of employees. He said that the long-standing management of the Public Economics Institute of Brdo also faced him with the very successful presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2008. In his presentation he showed that he understood the importance of the service, that is, the SVRK, for the development and financial image of Slovenia. Those of us who have already done this job in our careers, we usually call it "swipe". I believe that this will actually become an SVRK out of cricket under his leadership. It is aware of the problems Slovenia has in drawing on European cohesion policy funds, particularly those related to delays. He is aware of one of the key problems, this is the effective functioning of the information system, which is called e-MA, but in the previous perspective they have been called something different. In addition to the current cohesion policy for Slovenia, the candidate has shown that the future – in the new financial framework for the period 2021-2027, where we are in the midst of the most intense negotiations – is very important. In its concluding part, Dr Purič has taken key measures which, in our view, represent the right path towards improving the effectiveness of the implementation of current cohesion policy and provide a good basis for a new financial perspective. At the proposal of the National Assembly, the government adopted a strategy to accelerate the absorption of European cohesion policy funds. The candidate has not yet been informed of the contents of the application before the hearing on the parent’s working bodies. However, we believe that it will be an appropriate basis for his work. In the National Assembly, we will consider the document in January next year and then closely monitor its implementation. In the Marjan Šarc list, we believe that the coalition partner, Party Alenka Bratušek, has chosen the best possible candidate, who has also been willing to accept this challenge, in the proposal of the Minister without a portfolio responsible for the development of strategic projects and cohesion. An extremely demanding resource, which is under the supervision of both coalition partners and the opposition, will indeed be a real challenge for the minister; a challenge also in the substantive sense, at least ongoing, but even more so. Unlike in the past, it is much more based on the so-called soft content. Slovenia also has a number of problems in this regard, as it has not yet adapted to this new fact. The preparation of soft content is significantly more difficult than hard investment projects. These are also two essential substantive reasons, not technical reasons, for having problems. The efficiency of the core will be relatively able to be monitored, as the indicators are simple, numerical, in fact accounting, accounting. In addition to accounting monitoring, more important is the content for which this only developmental money will be spent. At the end of the perspective, Slovenia must also be more competitive, more developed and more prosperous and have no difference between more developed European regions. According to the List of Marjan Šarc, he must have a candidate for the Minister of Excellent Management Quality and must be well aware of the philosophy and objectives of cohesion policy. It is a highly horizontal policy that interferes with a number of other sources by its operation. The Party List of Marjan Šarc will support the candidate for Minister in the faith that he will know all the challenges of the service he takes over, accept and solve for the good of Slovenia. In doing so, of course, we are also counting on the constructive functioning of the candidate for Minister in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Mr Meira Hot on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The European Cohesion Fund is a topic that is not on the agenda of the plenary sessions of the National Assembly. The fact that European funds for development and funding for strategic projects in this Chamber are discussed for the second time in a good month is a departure from this practice. On the one hand, it is a welcome change because the resources we draw from the European budget are an important source of funding for projects that help create conditions for better lives for people in local communities and for faster and more equitable development of the whole country. It is therefore a topic which must be high on the list of our priorities. However, we cannot be satisfied that we are paying more attention to this topic due to the difficulties of returning to the Slovenian budget for projects already approved and, in general, the slow drawdown of European funds and the resignation of the Minister without the resources responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. The candidate for the new Minister, Dr Iztok Purič, is so difficult, with expectations of both politics and the public about the necessary changes and the accelerations in the absorption of European funds. In fact, there is very little time to get acquainted with the new function and the situation in which it is responsible. At the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 9 November 2018, after a discussion in which Minister Bandelli also participated, we adopted a proposal for a recommendation that the Government prepare within 30 days a plan to accelerate the absorption of European cohesion policy funds and present it to the National Assembly. The second, equally urgent and equally difficult task is to ensure that the pending one is transmitted to the European Commission by the end of the year. [[4-second cut-off]] We hope and in the interests of the countries, the local communities, all those working on the projects, and the citizens and citizens who must benefit from them in order to be able to talk about the successful use of European funds, we sincerely want the candidate for a minister to succeed. During his presentation to the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Union Affairs, Dr Purič also outlined a number of other priority challenges that he will have to face. These challenges concern both the more efficient work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and European cohesion policy, as well as the coordination of the operation of other sources and other stakeholders in the implementation of cohesion policy. In addition to the existing financial perspective, the challenge is already the future perspective for the period beyond 2020. The inevitable fact is that both the height and the structure of the funds available to Slovenia will change. The European Commission also proposes that the time during which countries could access unused work in a given year of funding should be reduced from the next three to the next two years. These changes will require more careful project planning, stakeholder integration and, last but not least, appropriate technical support, which has already proved to be an unexpected major problem. We would like to draw attention to them now, because we cannot be reassured by the fact that, in the middle of the previous mandate, we have repeatedly pointed out the difficulties in implementing cohesion policy, and despite other assurances, it has proved to be even greater than it was supposed to be. All of these challenges show that there is no education or comparable work experience to create an ideal candidate or candidate for the Minister for Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion. We believe that it is more important for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to receive operational leadership as soon as possible for the development and European cohesion policy. In a broader sense, however, the Government must ensure a clear vision for the further development of our country and ensure its effective implementation through the use of all the means and instruments available to us from our membership in the European Union. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will unanimously support the proposal to appoint Dr. Iztok Purič as Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion for all these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Gregor Perič on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you again for your word. In the SMC Group of Members, we will support Dr. Iztok Purič as a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. As we know, Party Alenka Bratušek proposed to Prime Minister Marjan Šarc on Wednesday, 28 November 2018 as the candidate for the new cohesion minister, who will replace Mark Bandelli, Iztok Purič. The Prime Minister agrees with his candidacy, and the majority of Members and Members agreed with his candidacy at the joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on European Union Affairs. On this occasion, Dr Purič presented his first actions and fundamental objectives in the area of development and cohesion policy. Otherwise, Iztok Purič, who was a doctor of science in the field of organizational sciences, led the Public Economics Institute Brdo for 12 years, leading a general staff service in the companies Exotherm and Žito. We therefore hope that he will successfully carry out the challenging tasks of the cohesion minister, with diligence and responsibility and on the basis of his leadership skills and other experience. We believe that the work will begin immediately and that Mr Purič will use his knowledge and skills in the areas of management, management of staff and the proper management of budgetary resources also in the context of the successful use of cohesion funds. For these reasons, we will support Dr. Iztok Purič's candidacy for the Minister responsible for Development and Cohesion in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Natasa Sukič, you have a position on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Honorable Council of Ministers, respectable and respected! Since the beginning of the Minister's candidacy without a director responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, the debate has focused on the problems of drawing on European funds and problems with the information system of the Government Development Service and European Cohesion Policy. Ministerial candidate Iztok Purič ensured at the joint meeting of the Committee on Economic and European Affairs that the two problems between the priorities of his mandate will be resolved. But we expected a little more from the minister's candidate in Levica. Of course, we all want more European funds and a functional information system, but we also expected a more detailed vision and proposals for concrete measures to address the fundamental problems facing Slovenia in the area of development and cohesion policy. In Levica we have been pointing out for a long time the unsustainable development differences in Slovenia. In view of the geographical trends in development and underdevelopment, Slovenia is a micro-cosm of the European Union: it is divided into a centre and a periphery. Developmental differences are reflected in higher levels of poverty and social exclusion in sub-developed areas of the periphery, in particular in the Lower Posava region and in the Pomur region. The periphery consists of economically affected areas that have accelerated deindustrialisation in recent years or decades. Most economic activities in Slovenia are carried out in the centre and the periphery consists of places away from major economic centres. These places are rarely inhabited, because of poor transport infrastructure they are poorly connected and sometimes there are no adequate telecommunications connections. In Zasavje and Pomurje, for example, deindustrialisation coincided with depopulation and a rapid increase in the proportion of the old population with the highest levels of risk of poverty. These regions are also characterised by comparatively low levels of higher education. The division of the centre and the periphery therefore reflects not only developmental but also major social differences. Data for 2017 show that the level of risk of poverty was highest in the Posavina statistical region, where it amounted to 18.5%. The average annual income available in Eastern Slovenia was much lower than in Western Slovenia. In central Slovenia, it amounts to around EUR 9 000 900 and in the pomur statistical region it is only EUR 8 000 400. The level of risk of social exclusion was highest in the Posavina and Podravska statistical region, which was more than 21% in both. Therefore, geographically conditioned development differences also reflect a number of social problems that require immediate action, and this should also be a serious national development strategy of the Slovenian economy, which Slovenia unfortunately cannot overcome. In fact, there is no regional policy in Slovenia. Slovenia has been satisfied for years with the European development objective and the use of European cohesion funds, which shows a great deal of passiveness and conformism of domestic policy. The consequences of this passiveity and conformism are two; the Slovenian economy remains on the outskirts of the European Union, where, through export management, the production of low value-added semi-products takes over the position of subcontractor of more developed industrial countries and centres and, in order to prevent national development and regional policy, the division into the centre and periphery is also reproduced on the domestic soil. At the meeting of the Economic and European Affairs Committees, the Minister's candidate has shown some understanding of these problems, which is why we will not oppose them, but he has not made clear visions and concrete proposals for their resolution and we cannot support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mrs Natasha, I'm sorry, Mrs Masha Kociper on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Again, I apologize for the renaming.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u16	I'm not as sensitive to the right excuse as some. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, respectable colleagues! Dear Council of Ministers! The item that we are considering today, which is currently on the agenda, has the title of the proposal for a candidate for a minister with no resources, proper development, strategic projects and cohesion. And the candidate we will elect today will lead the government's service for development and cohesion. It could be concluded from such an address that it is a minor government service dealing with minor details, but the truth is quite different. It is a matter of law, a large ministry with more than 200 employees and a very important area. When Alenka Bratušek was entrusted with leading this ministry, we knew that there was a great responsibility before us, as it has been repeatedly stressed, practically the only development resources of this country. What we didn't know was that when we arrived at the Ministry, we would be facing so many open, burning and very urgent problems. Among other things, the drawdown of around 150 million euros from Europe is also under question. 150 million euros is really a lot of money, and these projects are supposed to be financed by the Slovenian budget, and for the time being we cannot ask the European Commission for money due to the irregular recording of drawing. If this problem has actually been resolved in the meantime, we can all be truly happy together. Regardless of the accumulated problems that occurred long before we took over the station, our team with the minister immediately rolled up their sleeves and went to work to get the pump started as soon as possible and also to increase the percentage of the current 15%. What happened was what happened, and today we're talking about a new candidate. Given that much has already been said about his references and his presentation, it may not be repeated in this part, but I would say something else. Indeed, this area is highly technicalally difficult, and this has been said several times today, and as rightly stressed by the Member of the Social Democrats, there are no cohesion and development experts in Slovenia that could be drawn out of their pockets in such a case. Therefore, we do not think that candidates for such demanding resources are in line. In this respect, we can be very grateful – and our client is, of course, speaking for us – for Dr Purič’s response to our invitation and accepting this challenging challenge. Mr Purič, as it is said, is not an expert in cohesion and development, nor in fund-raising, but he is a great expert in the management of staff and other sciences in the field of organisational science. And that's exactly what we think is very important here. There must be someone there who is aware of the values of the personnel, who are the only ones who know this difficult area that can organize and motivate them. He must have the will and desire to change things for the better, and Dr. Puritch has it all. It also has long-standing knowledge of the management of large systems, and we are confident that it will be used for the benefit of all of us. And so, on behalf of our client, I ask you to give him a chance. Still, I'd like to say one more thing in the end. The drawing-up of funds and development projects financed by this resource cannot, in any case, be only a matter and a party's responsibility, but rather the responsibility of the whole government and all other stakeholders involved, including local communities and all others. Only with our collective strength will we be able to do what is the greatest benefit that we have from the European Union, that is, to benefit and benefit our citizens from the resources available to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Franc Jurša, you have a position on behalf of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. A warm welcome to the ministerial assembly, including to fellow Members of Parliament, Members of this Chamber! We've got a first shift of the ministerial team ahead of us. At the end of last month, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Marjan Sarec, presented a proposal for a new candidate for a minister responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. According to the opinion of the Prime Minister, Dr. Istok Purič is a suitable candidate. In the eyes of the lay and professional public, the area of European cohesion funds is extremely underexploited, as, according to many statements, both in the media and in the professional public, pumping takes place very slowly or too little. Despite some successful projects that Slovenia has managed to obtain, it is possible to know that we do not have a coherent cohesion policy in the light of the balance between the use of funds in both Slovenian regions, Eastern and Western. In fact, the gap between them is very large or large. The additional difficulty in successful drawing is still due to excessive red tape and problems with the functionality of the information system. The application of projects for grants from cohesion funds has thus become a true science fiction, where various agencies that care about the correctness and attractiveness of applications have lost their hands in the face of dizzying earnings. In the future, we must all pursue the full use of development resources and create a new financial perspective, since these are almost the only development funds in the country. The latter was also pointed out by the candidate for Minister. This implies that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's Development and European Cohesion Policy Service should act as a reliable and effective coordinator of stakeholders in the implementation of cohesion policy. This, however, can be achieved through the right direction and by pursuing the objectives set, in particular through mutual cooperation and knowledge. Will and readiness alone are too little. In order to achieve this, we need, at the head of such a vital resource, a wise man with experience and vision. In view of the presentation of the candidate for Minister Dr Iztok Purič at the meeting of the competent working bodies in the National Assembly and in view of his views on the solution to the problem, we express our support for the candidate in the hope that he will successfully lead the most important service to draw on European cohesion funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded, honourable Members and Members, by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. You're the first to have the word "magic." Marco Pogačnik. But get ready, Mr. Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for the floor. It must certainly be said that this is one of the most important areas at a given time. The fact is that the Slovenian budget needs funds available to Slovenia, Slovenia has about 3 billion resources, and it has been sad to note that so far this task has not been done properly by both the previous government and the current government. It wasn't actually done. We are lagging behind with projects to be reported in Brussels. I am convinced that with serious work, with commitment, in particular with the participation of all ministerial teams, the entire ministerial team – because the fact is that the areas need to be complemented, both on the one hand and on the other – I am sure that we can get these two billion more European funds and these two billion European funds can also allow for the further development of Slovenia. I am sure that we can come in with serious work, but unfortunately here in view of this coalition's approach to European funds, we can sometimes imagine that this will not be the case. The fact is that about two months of government action has already taken place to replace the Minister himself. I am of the opinion that, above all, this area is immediately behind the Ministry of Finance, I believe that candidate Iztok Purič will have to cooperate primarily with the Minister of Finance and everyone else. Now, above all, what I see is what should be done here. In particular, simplify procedures and stop bureaucrats. Here I feel that there are many things to be done and that all the things that the Court of Auditors has readied in its revision are being corrected. I expect from the candidate, probably from today onwards, the new minister, to take the work more seriously than any of his other predecessors before.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Franz Kramar, your word. But get ready, mags. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u22	President, thank you very much. Honorable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Development and cohesion is, in my opinion, one fundamental principle that should be set as a priority for all stakeholders in each country, and I think, above all, that these are the only funds from Europe that can greatly contribute to the development of municipalities throughout the country. In the past, this has been the case, although the previous perspective has been relaxed in the basic statistical regions and the municipalities have been able to participate in European funds there, and I can say that there has been a great deal of progress during that period. Well, then this last perspective came, in which the criteria for the allocation of funds changed substantially, I estimate that the country did so, changed the criteria and sharpened them to such an extent that it could only participate in cohesion funds in Ljubljana City Municipality, all the other municipalities did not meet these conditions, and this is not justified. We have two regions, east and west, which, in my opinion, is not the most fair. The fact is that Ljubljana belongs to the Western region, that Ljubljana is the farthest-developed municipality in Slovenia and with this addition is actually the Western region in a subordinate position compared to the Eastern. I believe that the Eastern region must remain as it is, and also participate in the funds envisaged for the East, but I think it would be reasonable to exclude the Municipality of Ljubljana as a single region. And here's one of the tasks that the newly appointed minister is going to be, I hope he does, and he's going to be a match for them. Once again, I would like to expect the Minister, despite the fact that he is coming from our party, to simplify the criteria for the allocation of European funds. Such bureaucracy, as it has been in the past, and especially such a hair loss in the tender itself and in the contracts themselves, because there were no dots, no commas, and I don't know what else, it doesn't go anywhere. It is necessary to simplify the system, allowing municipalities to participate according to criteria which must be equivalent for the entire country and which need to be adhered to in the future. I'm sure Dr. Puritch will follow. It's true, he's got a lot of work to do. This is one of the most demanding ministries in the country, and I do not underestimate the others, but the fact is that it can help develop the whole Republic of Slovenia, because by drawing on European funds they also bring development. This is what we all want together, according to my assessment in Slovenia. I wish Dr Puric a great deal of success and a great deal of desire to finally move forward in this area in terms of drawing on development and cohesion funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. But get ready, Mr. Boris Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u24	Good-bye to all of you. At least one point is where we all agree today: the ministry, the city we are talking about, is extremely important. This is the only real investment that is available from the European Union. It is 4 billion or more, and it is certainly something that needs to be treated with special care, because, if nothing else, it dictates the principle of liability to citizens and citizens. We should pay special attention to this from day one. Unfortunately, the fact that not the previous government, in fact the previously recycled government, has not been a success until now. On the contrary, this is where the backlogs were the biggest. The proposal before us today is somewhat unusual in this respect. On the one hand, I am personally pleased that someone from Gorenjska, from Kranj has been proposed. On the other hand, it is about a man who has been in retirement for a long time; it is said that he has lost actual contact with all those where he should have the most developed at this point even connections. [[…]] I wonder what is behind which accounts to be returned, but certainly such a proposal reflects the terrible human resources drought that this government and this coalition have. Above all, such a proposal, honourable Prime Minister of the Government, is irresponsible to citizens and citizens because it is such a sensitive place. He could have been a successful candidate in this area a long time ago, or in an area that had been associated with it, but now he has been retired for a long time and this reactivation is, to say the least, unusual. If only an ideal interlocutor was sought for Mr Junker – Junker is leaving; thank God he is leaving! Certainly here is the question of what should lead the coalition and the President of the Government in proposing a candidate for a minister who will perform the developmental most responsible function at crucial times when things were not good back and when it is necessary to make up for lost time. Where is your responsibility to the people, Mr. President of the Government? With such proposals, you certainly do not confirm this responsibility. I am firmly convinced that with some effort we could also find significantly more in this area of the entangled candidate, which would then make it easier and more effective to obtain funds. I just hope that at least something works for him too, I have no doubt that he will make an effort to do so, and that he will not forget about Gorenjska, where we both come from, because unfortunately, the rule we have seen several times before is that, when candidates from Gorenjska leave for the executive branch, they simply forget about Gorenjska. I hope it's an honorable exception.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Get Mr. Franci Kepa ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u26	Dear representatives or ministers, distinguished Government, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Today we will decide on the election of a candidate for a Minister without a director responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mr Iztok Purič. There's been a lot of talk, there's been some criticism, there's some praise, there's some promising news, there's some old stuff we already know. Personally, I must say that I am aware that this is one of the most important ministries, which you are aware of, many or all of them. We know that this ministry is the one that enables us, citizens and citizens, to live a better life, a better life, a better development and thus a better, better Slovenia, because we can acquire many European funds and, if this is not the case, of course, we must spend our money on things that could be financed by Europe, where we also pay quite a lot of our resources. Then we talk about the various amendments to the laws, the various minorities, the small sums that would be good for people, especially for small people, for those who do not have them, and so on; but we do not get out of Europe there, and then we are where we are. I would not want to be too critical, nor would I like to give any bad signals to the future minister, who, I believe, in terms of presenting the views of individual parliamentary groups, will also receive support in the National Assembly. However, at the outset, it was very well stressed by one parliamentary group that the Minister from the Alenka Bratušek quota was coming. I don't think it's that important, because every time we talk about it or hear about it from other people, it doesn't matter where it comes from, which political option it belongs to, but it's more important whether it's an expert or not, whether it's in the field or not; I think it's much more important than where it comes from. At the hearing of the Minister's candidate on the committee responsible for the economy and the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, I asked him some specific questions that, I must say, I did not get satisfactory answers. His answers were more than slow, and from those responses, I did not see any particular visions that something would be much better in the area of European funding. I must say that Mr Bandelli was much better cut off at the hearing, he was much more persuasive, and he also had very concrete answers, from which I could understand that only the sun might shine on this ministry or government development service, strategic projects, cohesion and so on. But unfortunately, because of some other things, this minister had to leave. But I believe, at least my belief is that I would do this job much better than the proposed candidate, at least after all that I could hear in the presentation and what I could read in the media, even though I have to say that I don't believe every medium and every record, but even though you give it all together, you get some concrete picture. I also asked the candidate at the hearing if he had ever participated in any European project in the tender, in the acquisition of funds, in the event that he had participated, in the number of times he worked and in the amount of funds they had acquired. Well, he didn't give me an answer, which made it clear to me that he probably never worked too hard on it, which I'm also a little worried about, even though I hear from some Members that it's more important that the manager, that he's an organiser, that he's a good leader, but I think he needs to know very much about all these things that he's going to take over later. I also asked him about hidden errors, if he might have presented something that he did not want to hear or if something was lying on his soul, but he quickly mentioned some of the problems and problems he had in the past, but I will not now. The main and essential thing is that when he does this difficult work, he will have to do a number of things at this ministry or at this government service, because there are quite a few problems that have occurred there at the time of Minister Srkoljeva's ministry and until now. Above all, it seems very important to me that this bureaucracy and the complex procedures that are necessary or that all those who would like to apply for any European funding projects are in fact so complicated and complicated that they are often neither found nor able to apply properly and are also with the means. I think that this government service should actually also come to the aid of all those who would like to acquire these funds; it is said, in particular to the congregations, not that we are looking for more dots, commas and so on. I will never forget the case, including our local, Lithium case, when we were in the municipality of Lithuania at 7 million euros in European funding for building a home for older citizens, which is a state project. I'll never forget that. I believe there will be a great deal of effort here. That I won't be too long. This chaos on the information system of the government service will urgently need to be eliminated. Then it will also have to be done in the field, which is what Minister Bandelli had worked out in great detail at the time, and now I have not heard it. It will also be necessary to ensure that those people who have done nothing in this area so far will not do important work, both within the government and elsewhere. I don't think such people deserve any positions in public administration if they haven't done the right thing or if they haven't done what they're supposed to do. The e-MA and ISAR information systems know that they have entered ISAR instead of in e-MA, these are some of the details that bring great things behind them. I think it's really necessary to really get in hand here and watch what a person does and why he goes to work and why he's paid. This government service also made a vision by 2050, which was very expensive. I think some information says that even criminals are involved in this vision, or they will, but I'm not going to talk about it. I mean, projects like this, some visions by 2050, we're in a state like this, but we don't even have the problems and problems of 1950. I mean, it's all a little bit out of hand. [[…]] Now who's to blame, who's not to blame, I'm not to blame. I hope that this minister will make sure that later we will never listen to who is to blame, who is not to blame, who has done, who has not done his job, and that things will be settled, as we all expect. It was also said by those who would support the candidate that he must work for the good of the country, the municipalities, the local community, that sleeves should be rolled. Sounds good, but if it's actually done, we'll probably see something soon. This year’s millions, which are going to blow up or not to be won, are indeed a disaster. I hope this gets out of hand. If the minister can't do his job, if he can't do his job, if he doesn't know how to do it, then he should go ask which Eastern country. Many of them are very successful at this and will get examples of good practices there, and we will finally come to their level once again to draw what we can from Europe. Therefore, once again, let us really take matters seriously, work – as it should – and draw on European resources, make the most of everything possible, and take care of the development of the country, the regions, not just Ljubljana, for this centre. I'm nothing if they have enough, but let's look around the rest of the country, in our underdeveloped regions, in the countryside: there's no infrastructure like it should be, there's no fences, there's no rehabilitation of degraded areas, and so on. In short, there is a lot to do and money to do in the European budget lies a lot, and let us draw on it, let us do our best to make this happen. I hope that these promises of the candidate and the President of the Government and the entire Government will come across fertile soils and that we will also have some of this, that it will not be just a matter of speaking and we will be sitting here again in two, three months' time and choosing a new minister. I hope this doesn't happen, because this is going to be a disaster for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has been given by a member of France Kepa, and he must prepare himself for the Mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to the ministers and to all present! As the predecessors have already said, it is a major problem to draw on cohesion funds. These funds, however, are one of the key to our country, to the congregations. Up to now, only 15% of these funds have been exhausted, and there are only two years left. This is very little time and so far we are far from the worst in drawing on all these perspectives. Whether the problem of bureaucracy or the problem of computer science is not excuses, this should be done by the government now that it has taken place and the previous government should act. And these pumps should be much better than they are. The municipalities are expecting this money, and the municipalities are very dependent on this money. In future prospects, smaller municipalities should be closer to drawing criteria. Now we are closer to large congregations, smaller congregations need to unite to meet these criteria. For example, this sewage system of two thousand population units is an example. Today we confirm the proposed Minister. We had a hearing on our committee. The Minister himself said he had no experience in this area. I don't know why a man is proposed without experience, but time is very short. Here we should propose a man who really has experience in this field, a really very good expert. We should draw the adjutants, because only two years is the time for most of the funds to be spent. And we're playing here and we're pulling someone out of where I don't know where, maybe he was an expert in some other areas, but he said he didn't have any experience in this area. But there's no time to learn. What's he going to learn now for one year, then we'll only have another six months to draw on that funding?Oh, my God! As has been said, the former Minister was from the economy and had more experience in this area. What was the reason he got suspended? He was probably not optimal either, but he made a greater impression on me at the hearing than the proposed minister. I hope that the joint team will still be able to draw on these resources in this perspective, but for the future it would be much better for you to do so sooner, more wisely and more prudently, not to wait forever for the end, or it will be exhausted, and perhaps it would be better for us to draw on it a year earlier, but rather to have a year of sunbathing on the balcony and look at a better perspective and draw on the money sooner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much. There have been some changes, so it will now be Ambassador Daniel Krivec, and Masha Kociper will prepare herself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I did not expect to be on my turn so quickly, but it is obvious that this minister enjoys very much the support of the coalition, which he strongly advocates, that no one seems to have any arguments that he would have expressed in support of this minister. I must also say that I am very skeptical about the candidacy of Dr. Iztok Purič, who will take over the department, for which you all find it very important at this time. In the previous term, there has been a great deal of emphasis on the fact that things do not work out in this area as expected in the National Assembly, but, above all, as was the expectation among the local communities that are somehow the key consumers of this money coming from European sources. Given that you are probably all Members of the parliamentary group meeting with local communities, with their representatives, with development agencies, you probably all had enough information on how things are going on in this area. Despite all the warnings in the National Assembly addressed to the previous government, the previous ministerial team, the minister who led it, things have not really changed. Moreover, in the end, we now find that many of us from this department have literally deceived us with data. As it is said, whoever met with the level of local communities and development agencies knew that this information was incorrect or wrong and that it was misleading, but despite warnings, despite the meetings of the parent committees and also the meetings of the National Assembly that addressed the subject, their work had not changed. And now you're putting on this place a gentleman who you took from the retirement phase, which means that you're devouring a job for some young capable expert who could get it in some appropriate way, and you're giving a man who in some way would be even more understandable if he came from some area of this area, from some really public administration that would be dealing with the area of drawing on European funds that would have some experience, maybe from a wider local self-government that would work in some development agencies, wherever it might be possible to gain experience from that title. [[…]] Or, on the other hand, to carry out some projects through European funds. However, not someone who was literally the director of a public institution in some watt that did not deal practically with any connection to the environment, but was primarily responsible for drawing on certain funds that were allocated through the budget lines. It never worked on the market, it had no need to worry about any wider development. Even those who were employed there were, in fact, acquired through some normal calls, not subjected to any particular pressure that they had to do something further. And now, in a way, you're putting someone who's a pensioner who's already disconnected from one of them, I'd say a work rhythm and you're putting it in some area where, as you can see for yourself, everything is wrong; from computer science to work relations, to the performance of virtually all the tasks that this department should perform, and you expect it to settle as soon as possible. We were all convinced that the previous minister, who had at least some experience as a representative of local communities as mayor; he was involved in drawing European funds; he knew where the obstacles were; he knew where the problems had been; and yet, within three months, he was virtually unable to move anything. And now you're going into, in fact, an even worse solution that's going to cause gray hair to the Prime Minister, and probably to someone else. In this way, I fear that the use of European funds will not be accelerated, but it will, in some way, stop because it is difficult for me to imagine that someone who is currently a pensioner knows a range of problems that are urgent to address in this department. As I say, the previous minister at least looked like he knew these things and that he was going to do it in some way and he didn't make it. From this point of view, I am very concerned about further steps that will be taken by a specific minister who is likely to be elected later in this national assembly, although, as I can see, there is no strong desire to defend him or at least to push his way with some good wishes. Most of those who have been advertised so far have been in the direction that this may be a problem in particular and that the choice is rather wrong than good. Thus, it is not good for this minister, even from this point of view, that he talked most of the time at the hearing, that he would learn about everything else, that he had the will to act, but he showed no knowledge of this department, nor any great desire to change anything. So I hope you know what you're going to confirm and that you're also aware of the responsibility that you're going to have in the next two or three months when we're probably talking again in the National Assembly about a new minister who's supposed to take care of the situation in this department.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The text is given by Member Masha Kociper, followed by Susana Beautiful Šimenka as the last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, President! This debate is coming to an end, and perhaps it would take just a few minutes to respond to a few key points. We have just heard that the coalition is not very busy reading a new candidate for minister. Until that moment, I didn't even know that when you appointed a minister, you had to defend him with madness and defend him. I think that all the parties to the coalition in their positions have expressed their clear and very clear support for candidate Puric. The representatives of the parties spoke, and at this stage I do not think I need any additional cheering, at least here on this side of the hall we are not used to working this way. That is how we have heard the representatives of the position most of the time in this debate. There were some very correct discussions, a little less. I would say so; of course it is possible to judge foreign candidates, but I can only repeat once again that it is a shame that some have not had the opportunity to propose their candidates for ministers at all. So I would ask that at this stage you leave an opportunity for those of us who have formed a coalition to propose people who seem appropriate to us. The resource we are talking about is no doubt a very demanding resort. And when we talk about human resources malnutrition, I will repeat the following: there are not many experts in this country, there are neither special schools nor special colleges, nor special special specialisations dealing with European funds and development, as we generally call this area. If you're talking about finding a man with a rich experience in this area, as was said, then you're actually talking about hiring someone from this ministry; hiring a minister, of course. However, the policy and political governance of the country does not work in this way. Others, too, have not always — and this has not been a condition — worked by people who were express experts in this area; even in the past, when the government was run by others, so did they. Our client takes over this area for the first time, has no experience with it and cannot be responsible for the problems that have occurred there in the past. Certainly it is not true that nothing has been done in these three months, much has been done, as far as three months can be done. Now we've come up with a situation where the client had to offer another candidate. And once again, I will say what I will say several times in the National Assembly; if you think that people in this country are in line for such difficult functions, ministerial positions, you are wrong. It is the responsibility of each party to find a good candidate who will not refuse such an offer. Because those who, with European funds, their calls and so on, are serving large sums of money, this today can be a big deal, of course they will not respond to such a call. I would like to thank Mr Purič once again, who could continue his retirement and live in peace to accept this challenge and decide to help the country. People who hope — we need those in our country! I am afraid that if we are already so critical of each candidate in advance, such good candidates who could work successfully will really report less and less. In the end, it may be just professors who know they have a job ahead of them after the end of their term of office. And I don't mind the professors saying we understand each other, but we probably want to have a wider selection of candidates for ministers. I thank the opposition for making constructive suggestions on what can be done and how. I reject those who are already in advance, without giving the candidate the opportunity, are critical, some even rude, but I suggest you trust this government and this minister who is currently running the country, and then we will see how it goes. However, you yourself said that not only the coalition, but the opposition would be very careful to keep an eye on this department, which we are all aware of, but we only hope that they will not be able to interfere with the extraordinary meeting so that they will not be able to do what they are responsible for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word of Member Susana Lepi Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I have been following the views of all the parliamentary groups, and I was particularly interested in the position of coalition parties, and I must say that it was mostly exposed to the fact that this is the minister of the quota of Alenka Bratušek, which of course we respect, you are in a coalition, but you are in a certain arrangement, but in some ways we can also explain it in such a way that we are being fenced on the other hand, because if this minister is not okay, because it is a minister who belongs to the Alenka Bratušek Party by quota, and therefore we are in some way heating up from him. Of course, that is not what we want, for, as it were, where we were united in this particular area. It is so true, it is an area where both the opposition and the coalition are united, it is extremely important that we have a capable man here and in the end, that, of course, we will draw all the resources that we as a country can draw upon. It was pointed out that this is an extremely demanding resource. Here, too, I think we all fully agree, but yesterday I happened to go to the government's website and watch, I don't know when the President of the Government is listed, and then what I consider to be, the Vice-President of the Government, the Vice-President of the Government, the Vice-President of the Government, who we have, which is extremely large, but unfortunately, that this city belongs to a person who somehow covers European funds, cohesion, which unfortunately is not; but given the complexity of the department, given that there is, if there is, really important inter-sector coordination here, we could say, because this person must be Vice-President of the Government. But unfortunately that's not the case. These are ministers from other departments, unfortunately. I hope that now, although it has been pointed out that the priority of this government is this area, I think that one way would have highlighted it in particular. As it is said, we are extremely weak in drawing, we will not have extraordinary meetings at extraordinary meetings if the situation improves significantly in the short term. It is necessary to know, however, that in the last month we have had so-called dead races in this area, but one month has passed from the resignation today to the appointment of a new minister and some delays in this area we cannot really afford. Last but not least, we know that we can lose € 143 million very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which I could get the word of Prime Minister Marjan Sarec, but I do not see the Prime Minister here. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time for discussion has not yet passed, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss it further under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I see a desire to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign in when I fire. Now, if he also wants to discuss the Prime Minister Marjan Sarec, please report by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. Four are reported, each one gets five minutes. First of all, it is Ambassador Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, I'd like to hear a few sentences I've heard from the President of the Government. He said – because here we have already said that this is an extremely difficult and very important area, because it is the only development money for our country. Among other things, the President of the Government said, we have reviewed the situation, we have made an action plan, so we have ready. I am confident, as Prime Minister of the Government, that Mr candidate for Minister will work as a hostage. And the fourth thing that Mr President of the Government has pointed out to Mr Puric is that he wants a lot of results. These are the sentences spoken today by the Prime Minister of the Government. And that, in given circumstances, when we have practically absorbed 15% of European funds from 2014 to this point; when it is not known, we do not have the right records, we do not even know how much money we are losing. In such given circumstances, we listen to the Prime Minister of the Government to defend the Minister's candidate in this way! Today we have heard from the debaters that the ministerial candidate has virtually no experience in this area. Practically no experience! And in given circumstances, when we are faced with such an important challenge as the acquisition of European funds, which are the only development resources in the state budget, we put and propose such a person in this position! Today a lot of parliamentary groups have said a very important thing here. They said that the quota for Alenka Bratušek is the minister. So they've said a lot about it. They said a lot of things about it. I mean, when it comes to such an important issue, when it comes to the important issue of the development of Slovenia, because without the means of additional resources from the European budget, we practically cannot expect any development of the Republic of Slovenia. And then someone says that this candidate from the Alenka Bratušek quotas is whatever – and then I continue, regardless of the appropriate skills, regardless of whether he has the appropriate experience to hit the table in these given circumstances and say: "Look, all that has happened in this area in the SVRK is to be cut!". But only one who knows this area well enough can do so. In given circumstances, when these funds should be drawn up by 2020, plus those years in which European funds can still be drawn, we put and propose such people in such a position. I think that there should not be a coalition issue here, but a question of how to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, the interests of our citizens and citizens. And it's irrelevant on such an important issue, it's irrelevant what quota it comes from. But obviously there is a key interest in this coalition to satisfy the quotas of individual parliamentary groups or individual government members, and it is not important to ask what quality the candidate will take. This is unacceptable and unacceptable to me as both a Member and a citizen. In the first place, we should seek a person with competence, with quality, with all that he needs if we are to improve the situation in this area. But what we've been getting Members of Parliament lately, and what we're hearing, this report, which has been published publicly, how this story works in drawing on European funds, and I think it tells us clearly enough that we can't really afford any more kicks at this point. Everything we do now in this way and with such arguments that the President of the Government has given us, why I support the Minister – I will say again: because it is a recycled government that is based on four years, because we should practically have these things completely clear and clear, they are now doing a review of the situation after four years! Then is the action plan ready? Since 2014, this action plan should be finalized if we really want to be good to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! It wasn't, and now it's done. President of the Government [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u37	Dude, time's up. Thank you very much. The following is the word of Member Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u38	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear representative, distinguished representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe that Mr. Candidate is listening to us as well. We in Novi Slovenija did not specifically define ourselves, we do not know Purič. Whoever takes this extremely important and responsible place is the question and issue of the Prime Minister of the Government and the coalition, our votes are irrelevant, the gentleman needs the custom of the majority and will today become Minister. But I'd rather focus on the content itself. What gentlemen are waiting for, here we want to help him as much as possible, we have some experience in this area, some of our experience we have already wanted the previous Minister responsible for development and cohesion to intervene, and she has given us a smooth rejection, and now it is clear that we were still right. Where were we right? We have said the right time – I think in the second year of the previous mandate – that the Government should, however, change the Operational Programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020. As this operational programme, which Slovenia has written, the Slovenian government has adopted and the European Commission has only signed on 16 December 2014 and the Commissioner has told us when she was here on a visit – Commissioner responsible for cohesion – that, of course, this is our document so that we can change it. The secretary then said, oh, that's one year of dead running. Yeah? Now we've got four years of dead pumping. That's what I'm trying to warn you. It's a little embarrassing that somehow we call this minister a "resortless minister." This minister has almost all the resources. He's not in charge, but I also agree, it would be good for him to be Vice-President of the Government. If this Minister does not have the maximum support of the President of the Government, at least as much as his Minister of Finance has, there will be no results. I want a lot of results for him, like the President of the Government. That's all we expect! I'd like to put the following to the future minister's heart. He is the Minister for Development and Cohesion. First of all, it's the development of this country. And I would like to tell him that I expect him to finally and once coherent regional development. Today we've heard the data here, now I'm going to highlight Pomurje to you, from there I'm coming, and I know the situation that people live in. Thank God – but this is such a weirder, black thank you, I would say – thank God it is near Austria. Austria rescues us, solves the existing problems of our premurk or pomur families. Pika! Of course, none of the Slovenian governments would want to admit this until now, because if, if, if, then, we were to change the legislation, we would express to these people in some way the recognition that they are not moving out, tax residents are staying here. And here's the emphasis on tax residents. You know this problem that's just dragging around and it doesn't want to be solved. And we drive people away, we drive people away from this country! And as the speaker was told, the countryside, specifically in this case of Pomurje, is empty. The wall is empty. If you're Slovenian in Prekmur, no one's helping you. Pika. That's what I'm behind. However, I am pleased that, just when Alenka Bratušek was in power, I was the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, opposition of course, but I had excellent members on this committee and we were able to adopt a unanimous decision that we are committed to the Government that every quarter of the Government comes to the Committee on European Union Affairs and reports on the implementation of the operational programme or European cohesion policy. I am pleased that this decision respects, because, of course, it has not yet been revoked, including this government. Through these quarterly reports, of course, we will monitor the work of the Minister. I hope he listens to us, too. I hope he will also understand why we have made two cohesion regions in Slovenia, Eastern and Western. However, I regret that the Government has not adopted two operational programmes for each cohesion region separately. That's why money flows from the east to the west. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next one gets the word, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u40	Madam President, once again, thank you for your word. Before that, I have already discussed, but I will point out some very important things that I think are very important in drawing on European funds and somehow giving the Minister-designate an additional energy, assistance and government this hope after the most successful draw, as also mentioned by the Prime Minister, Mr Sarec, who also wishes to do so. However, I hope that he wishes to be honest and that citizens and citizens and citizens throughout the country will also have something to do with these wishes. We recently in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when we saw this poor use of European funds, also called an extraordinary meeting on this subject, and we also discussed this for a long time and a wide discussion in this House. Of course, we were all Members and Members of Parliament involved in the debate, all of which is of course concerned, and it is also the same, and I think it is very appropriate that we have raised this issue. It is also true that the new mandate has been given by the new government and that the new government may have a different approach to solving these complex problems that have accumulated. For in this perspective 2014-2020, as we have already heard, we have absorbed around 15% of the European funds; it is said from the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, which is aimed at sustainable development and connectivity in the Member States. For this purpose, Slovenia has a funding perspective of just over 3 billion – 3 billion 312 million. And we've spent 15% of our resources. They've gained as much as we would, and they belong to us as 3 billion 200. I mean, that's really scary data, and I think it's right that we've warned you about that, and we're warning you about that. I am pleased that the government is also aware of this and that the coalition is aware of it, including Members and Members of Parliament, that we are aware of it. However, I am concerned that the proposed candidate, Minister Purič, will not be able to take a successful path towards obtaining these funds. I hope that he will make a team, a team of real experts, if it is not himself, which he also admitted, because, as I mentioned earlier in the previous debate, the reference or reference for a candidate was more to the fact that it comes from the Alenka Bratušek quota than to the fact that he was involved in obtaining European funds, projects and so on. If he needs help, he can get it – before we heard it – in New Slovenia. I'm saying he can get it with us. If he comes to ask questions, we will be happy to advise him, we have a lot of knowledge and he will be happy to receive help, because once again, I stress, this area is very important for all of us, for all Slovenes, Slovenes, citizens, citizens, especially citizens and citizens. If we want to follow the path of development, if we want to achieve, for once in Slovenia, those developed countries that we are constantly watching progress and we are lagging behind, and that we will not be one of the five countries after the worst results of drawing on European funds as we have ever been. I really want it to start to work in this area with quality, with all the commitment, without any kind of saying, in saying so, any nonsense, irregularities, and that, indeed, also by the President of the Government and all the Vice-Presidents, there is also a real right to control the work of this Minister without a department and the whole government service dealing with such important matters as obtaining a European. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word of Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Chairman. First of all in response to colleague Maša Kociper – indeed, the Slovenian Democratic Party is not a government party. It did not form a government, but we are the strongest party in this national assembly and also the most successful party in the last state elections. So our word means something and our programme and our arguments to citizens and citizens in this Slovenia are the most trusted. Whoever forms the coalition is then just an object of overplay and who, of course, will have more or less, but let's leave it now. We'd better do what's in front of us. The fact is that in the area that we are most important in this country, this is the drawing of European funds, if we were to be more successful here, certainly in some of the bills - including those proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party - we should not be dealing with where we take money from, because we might be able to solve something with European funds and then we could also find other reserves or money for those laws that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, either in New Slovenia or in the other opposition party, but that is not the case. That the resort was unsuccessful, that the minister was unsuccessful, that is not what we say in the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's what the Prime Minister said. He wrote that the candidate was unsuccessful, that he did not do what was agreed and that he did not do things in time. This is not what we are saying in the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's what your Prime Minister said to the government and thus admitted that the human resources move was one of the most important – if not perhaps the most important – momentary failure. Human resources policy was a blow over. But it's not the candidate himself or the minister who's still here. That's why it's actually the Prime Minister's fault, because he's the one who ends up saying yes, and he's the one who's suitable for a minister. This is where the big minus to the Prime Minister goes first. Last but not least, we're in the hundreds of days of the government's operation, and we're just setting up state secretaries. This means that even the organisation is not carried out in individual ministries, in order to start working at all. I seriously wonder what would have happened if the opposition had not proposed a law, because I think we would have nothing to do in this National Assembly. That's sad. You know, there's a few hundred days of peace, and there's something about whether there's any good marriages coming up or there's work going on, and we're just setting up ministries. I'm not going to judge a new candidate for minister. I don't know him enough. It is a fact that his work so far does not show that he could walk here very confidently in this area, given the work he has done so far. I'd really rather have someone who, at least a little bit, knows this area, have some experience with it, no matter where it comes from. I don't care what quota it's from. It has been said that ministers do not grow in trees and that such a frame is difficult to obtain. Depends on how big a client you are and how people trust you. Those who trust will also receive a good human resources structure because they will want to do a function. Where they're a little insecure, harder, and where they don't believe, of course you won't get them at all. I hope that this time the President of the Government has somehow done this appointment more with a shaking hand; a more shaking hand for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Actually, it's hard to keep listening to how there's no money, and on the other hand, we're leaving money here that we can successfully pump. Hand to heart, you know, enough listening: 100 days, wait, system solutions! Get it started as soon as you can! Activate where it's most important and let's start working for this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no replica. The debate is closed. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a candidate for a minister today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 11th item of the agenda, this is to the first reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wine. We continue with the general debate on the proposal for a law. Before the conclusion of the debate, we have two other panellists, Mr Boris Doblekar and Mr Ivanušo. First he gets the word, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. And it quickly switched from Minister of Cohesion to wine. Yesterday we devoted a great deal of time to this issue, or to this topic, when we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party the adoption of some minor amendments to the Wine Act and it was quite a long, broad debate. I must say that we are also very interesting and that we can also learn from this and that this will also benefit us in the future. As proponents, as our fellow Member Jean Mahnic presented this amendment or these minor amendments to this law, we have in fact covered only the smallest vineyards; those that are actually the smallest with those few aris dealing with wine growing, vineyards and usually in some hard-to-reach areas throughout Slovenia. They're not big farmers, and we didn't want to do any harm with this change of law, and we wouldn't have done it. So I think it's very important that we go against these smallest vine growers, these amateur vine growers, the wine growers who have expressed the desire for this change so that they can also sell wine, that is to say, unboiled. It has been said that this bottle - cutting process and the conditions for you to even bottle wine and sell it on the market or in restaurants entail a lot of costs. That was a major emphasis. The main emphasis of yesterday's long debate late in the night was also that vineyards were leaving, that there were fewer planted reeds and more and more cultivated terrain, where vineyards were once where the vine, where it worked, sweated, and where something had also been drunk and had a nice time. This is also of great concern because we know that farms are also failing – a farm and a half a day falls in Slovenia, which is worrying, frightening. We have always been, or you, or whatever — to say nothing wrong — full of how we must work for a small farmer, how we will work, how we will write laws, how we will be good to small farmers, small farmers, small farmers, little food growers, I do not know what to do. In short, if that's what we're saying, then let's just do it, not leave it all to words. We know that this previous Wine Act was written largely. We have no objection to these great producers, that there may be no mistake against the great vineyarders, against the quality of wine we have no objection to this. This law, written by these great producers, cooperatives, associations, at the same time with inspectors, is very interesting. Indeed, they reached some consensus, some general consensus, and they wrote some law — I don’t know how a fox would write a law on chickens. But they have actually achieved – and so is – and the law is fine. But here these small vineyards are exempt and let's help them – there are no budgetary implications, we have also clearly written that down. Let us help these small vineyards to continue working on these small vineyards, so that life will be at these small gardens, not that now the walls are like some weekends, for a rest, which we like to do to give people as much comfort as possible, comfort to be fine. We appreciate the work, the work, the effort and help these micro, the smallest wine growers to come into their own account and what kind of a liter of wine they can sell.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The text was requested by the representative of the proposer, or proposed by Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you, Vice President. I would just like to repeat the question raised by the Secretary of State yesterday, before the time or hours before which we had a specific debate on Tuesday have expired. To: How many vineyards have fallen since Mrs Tanja Strniša is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture? Is that 2,000, or is that 3,000, or is that 4,000? I want to know how many vineyards have failed since you've been Secretary of State. While some say the penalties are appropriate. See, even with €11,000, 250 can be punished by a smaller producer. Eleven thousand 250 euros! That's about 9,000 or, say, 8,000 liters of wine. Now tell me, which of the smaller producers of our marriages, which has thousands of 500 to 2,000 vines there, who of the 2,000 vines came 8 or 9 thousand litres of wine, but may also be punished by such punishment under this law. The second thing you said was that this law means that innkeepers can sell bad quality wine. Someone tell me the inn which, according to you, would sell wine of poor quality that contains, say, bexer elite; such a inn itself is quite stupid if it sells such wine because its traffic will fall. And this law does not endanger any of the great, recognized and established winemakers. Yesterday, colleague Šušmelj mentioned the wine-growing environment of Goriška Brda, certainly a top location, top winemakers – not Kristančič, not Simčič, not Kabaju Morel, no one takes this law. No one. Because someone with a thousand and 500 vines simply cannot compete with someone who has 30, 40, 50 or more. The quality of the wine will not be reduced as well. Since non-quality wines containing errors are not sold by innkeepers. But if we do, we know what that means for traffic. It is not in anyone’s interest to buy bad wine from the gardeners, let alone sell it further. Once again, my main question, Madam Secretary of State, according to your statements yesterday, is how you are preparing solutions, and I am interested in how many vineyards have failed since you are the Secretary of State, and I am interested in what these solutions are and when they will come.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Secretary of State would like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u48	Dear Members and Members! We are continuing yesterday's debate with fresh brains and with the same questions. Allow me first indeed the answer, Mr Mahnic, to your question. When you ask me what the state of movement of vineyards is, I can say that the surfaces are slightly changing, namely the areas that are the following according to the register of vineyards, the data are the following. In 2010, we had 16 thousand 230 hectares of vineyards and in 2017 according to the Statistical Office 15 thousand 839 hectares. But when we talk about the number of farms that have vineyards – I don't know, I understood yesterday that you are asking about vineyards, and today you also mentioned the number of vineyards – the number of vineyards or those that have vineyards, farms is decreasing all the time and it was 26 thousand 328 in 2010 and 23 thousand 41 in 2018. But this decline is far back and there has been a much greater reduction in the number of vineyards in the period before this; it is said that between 2000 and 2010 the number of vineyards has decreased by 9 000 and this decrease is significantly higher. Since the data were different yesterday, let me say that one of the areas that were registered in the register and also with amendments to the wine law of 2013 we took steps to have more vineyards registered in the register, let me remind you, yesterday you yourself said that all vineyards must be registered in a register that has more than 5 acres of vineyards, not the smallest one up to 5 acres. But satellite data on the use indicate larger numbers. This data shows that we had 22 000 hectares and that this number is, according to satellite images of use, 18 000 567 hectares in 2018. But once again, the data on those vineyards which are registered in the register show a smaller reduction, namely a reduction of 2% from 2010 to 2018. However, other information is worrying and I say it. We, in the last decade or in the last period, have failed to achieve the renewal of vineyards at such a level as to mean normal renewal and amortisation of vineyards, although we make a yearly contribution from the European envelope – we have an annual €5 million allocated for the restructuring of vineyards and for the promotion of wine in third markets. For the time being, there is sufficient resources to rebuild these vineyards. In particular, for small vineyards, I can say that the group, within the framework of the Slovenian winegrowers and winemakers' associations, has prepared a proposal for measures. We are now working together on the application of these measures or on the implementation of these measures. Such more important measures for the future under preparation would allow farmers, small vine growers or even wine growers, wine growers who are also registered as wine growers, to process grapes from other farms as part of the complementary activity. In fact, the current Wine Act restricts the production of wine from grapes to wine in the framework of this basic agricultural activity only if they are natural persons. Anyone who wants to convert wine from other wine growers must do so under the Wine Act within the scope of espionage or part of it. And that's one thing we're going to propose in the context of a change of law. That's a change we're fond of. This is what we will propose at the Ministry, and we hope that this change will also be adopted. The second measure is to propose that the limits of the range of vineyards that must be held by someone in order to qualify for this European support for the renovation of vineyards, for the restructuring of vineyards, be reduced, in particular in areas where we have a fragmented structure. This border is now 80 acres of total vineyard areas, a general border in areas with large fragmentation such as, say, Dolenjska, Bela krajina, Prekmurje, and this border is lower than 60 acres. It is suggested that, although these limits are now being set, wine growers are once or years ago in line with the wine sector, but, given the situation in these areas, too few are being restored, given this, it is proposed that this limit should be reduced. Vinegrowers have proposed a 30 ar limit, and there must be a balance between this limit being stimulating and overcoming this problem of fragmentation. I recall once again that the average size of the vineyard in Slovenia is 51 acres and that over 80% of the vineyards are smaller, below this average value. Possessive fragmentation is a major problem, a structural problem of wine-growing and also an important reason why it is leaving. An additional problem is the spatial problem, which we are also very much discussing with wine growers as well as the mayors. In fact, the current system, when many municipalities in their municipal spatial plans allow the basement to be built even in very small areas of vineyards, for example, some municipalities have this limit of 15 acres or lately At the Ministry we do not even allow such a low limit, but we propose a border of 30 ar, but, each of us can probably imagine a situation where each small vineyard has its own building, then bringing these vineyards into larger complexes is virtually very difficult. [[…]] Not only this, but the density of the buildings in this way changes the wine-growing nature of this area and kicks out basic production, wine-growing production with some tourism or with the settlements of weekends. This creates a conflict that is not desirable and degrades the vineyard area, and vineyards, including small ones, do not support such an approach. As a result, we also decided to address the congregations together, so that these boundaries for the construction of the cellars and the buildings would be higher so that our classic vineyard areas would not change into residential areas. In addition to these new measures, I say that 78 % of the vineyards of restricted areas receiving support have been introduced into the new direct payments for vineyards during this programming period. Although in the past the wine sector has given up this and this part that goes into direct payments has been retained as its envelope, we have subsequently given it to them with the consent of other sectors and that they are entitled to environmental measures if they choose to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The following debater has the floor, Mr Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u50	That's a nice greeting, all together, President-in-Office, everyone else present! Yesterday we really discussed this law, and I believe that the concentration has already fallen at this late hour, but still, I have some concerns or when there were some debaters, I would say: Mr Horvat is excellently illustrated the situation that will occur in the future under that tower in Lendava around the mountains or the vineyards that are there, and of course what will happen in the future around the cutting of vineyards and, consequently, also the emptiness of the landscape and whatever future recovery. They're also talking about wine, about wine sold. I say it's nice if you sell the wine, and the best wine is that mowed wine — the one you get paid for. In the past, many wine growers have never received a paid price — including grapes or wine. When I talked about our province around Ormož, that we see already here some vineyard cut, of course in the future it will also grow, however, I also talked about the changed landscape, our beautiful wineland, but then there was little laughter on my left side on the speaker stage, what will happen in the future when this cheap land may be picked up by foreigners and we will be without this land and we will be winemakers. I may have misspoked yesterday, after 13 hours of discussion I spoke “public”; of course I was wrong. I'm also sorry if anyone noticed that, but anyway, it's a sad story. I don't know why that laugh was. I would just like to remind Madam Secretary of State that, when this law is being established, I am sure that these small vineyards we are talking about have not been questioned. These are the small ones, those with a few hundred reeds or a thousand to two thousand reeds — just as he dictates. Surely these were not for these great punishments written in the law. I'm sure they weren't even present. No one asked them. That's my opinion. However, there were those interest groups that appear in these wine stories, which are those interest groups, and business entities that may not have a single cane planted still make wine policy in Slovenia. Again, I asked the Ormoška basement today, what your opinion on this wine is, I got one piece of information, because it's okay to fix the law, but we still have a hundred of those who sell wine, in their own words, in black. And there's a hundred of them in Goriski Brda, but, say, in Dolenjska and that's 300,000 litres of wine. And if we give it two, three, that's barely -- how many euros? Very little! Yesterday, Mr Breznik said in the debate that we have 15 million wines sold on the grey market. So these numbers can't possibly go together, even though you say that this law is good, which is now in existence. Otherwise, we have inspection services, and I do not know why such differences and initiatives after complementary activities from these interest groups would be further refined by these small farmers or producers of wine and grapes. That's what I was gonna say. And then I believe that our landscapes will really be healed if that happens. That's it. Mr Korazzi – although I no longer see him today, he was just here – is such an advocate of the Halo Mountains and the Halo soil. He always speaks and advocates the infestation of the Halo soil, but yesterday when he said he felt that they did not support it. That's amazing. I can't understand that I'm hearing this from his mouth, and I'd recommend that he don't go to Haloze for two months, because if someone recognizes him there, a little thing lies down, some other two farmers pull him out of the inn, and I don't know what can happen to him – so this superman shirt doesn't help him today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor, so first I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much! Allow me, honourable Members, once again to reiterate that these changes in the law, which are now challenged by the new proposal, have indeed been prepared in the working group, which included all groups of winegrowers, from large cellars to family professional winegrowers and to small winegrowers. It was repeatedly mentioned in the debate that no one asked small vineyards. We have very large vineyards, I said number before – 25 thousand. Indeed, not everyone has been asked, just look, we as the ministry have to consider who represents them; and they are represented by the Association of Vinegar Associations. If I come out of my territory, we have 33 vineyard societies in Dolenjska and they have a connection and this relationship is a member of Vinisa. As an organisation representing small vineyards, we have asked for an opinion – then, in 2013 and now that we have a proposal to change these changes. I read their opinion yesterday. They believe that order on the market is also for the benefit of these small vineyards and do not support these changes in the law because they fear that in this way it will be possible to re-freeze the flow of unoriginally loaded wine in inn restaurants in order to increase the risk of possible abuse with cheap wine from anywhere else. We respect their views and therefore I say to them that we all have a responsible view of the changes that are being proposed. And with regard to the complementary activity. As honourable Members, you certainly know that anyone who processes any of the agricultural crops can do so only in the form of complementary activity or as part of it. Wine is an exception when someone can process their grapes as a farmer, as a natural person, and now we only allow it to be allowed foreign grapes, from other grape growers to be processed in the framework of complementary activities, so that they do not need to have it because of this espionage, and they have laid it down and we go to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Jean Madnick.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you, Vice President. That is why we have proposed this law. Madam Secretary of State, if I am not mistaken, you have run for office in the Novo mesto 2 constituency – right? It is said that there are many of these small vineyardmakers, in Šentjernej, Žužemberk, Mirni Peci, Dolenjski Toplice, Škocjan, and I think there are two or three municipalities in this district, including part of the New City. Too bad, probably — even if you were not elected — you did not walk much in the field where those farmers, who assure us, would tell you a lot about this law. And if we listened and heeded and defended it, we might be sitting there today with Mr. German and Mr. Prednik. But this law does not take any of the ones you listed, it is said to be the great ones who advocate large vineyards, and by the way, we also defend them, because we know that Slovenia depends primarily on them, because they are established vineyards who export their wine to the world and thereby promote Slovenia. And believe me, if there were at least a handful of doubts that this bill would endanger our top Slovenian wine brands in any way, then we would not have submitted this law to me. I'm going to repeat the story I told yesterday. We have two colleagues. One has a tavern, the other has a vineyard, like 2,000 vines. And they agree, this inn tells him that, what do I know, 100 liters of a certain kind of wine per month if he can sell it to him. And what does this one have to do? The whole procedure. Let's say that the bottle, the whole process that is needed, the filtration, the addition of cleaners, you can ask a variety of wine assessor, will tell you that when you start this process, the quality of wine is not the same as when you say wine in inox tanks. It must carry out the whole process, by bottled, by marking, by labeling, and so on. Now, let's see, right in these areas, Madam Secretary of State, where you have run for office, where you are also inclined to up to 30%, it is somehow calculated that the entire contribution to the letter of wine costs between 2.70 euros and 3 euros. Let's add a few more ten cents, or let's say it's up to the euro, as much as it costs in the process of being bottled, and then the letter comes in — how much? Two euros, if you buy from someone, let's say two and a half euros. To buy you wine, to flash you, to mark everything properly, and so on. Where's the profit here? Another thing is, if you're fluttering 50,000 liters of wine or more than you're flashing it a thousand liters or a thousand 200s, if someone with this inn decides to sell him 100 liters of wine every month, because it's not allowed to rinfuza anymore. And this inn wouldn't buy wine from him with a zigzag, a bexer, or some other mistake when you say that wine will be sold in poor quality. But the guests have a free pass. He can buy it from Simčič or Kabai Morel, but the question is, who's going to be drinking this top-notch wine in some inn. Who's gonna buy it? In Ljubljana, in hotels, in restaurants, that's no problem. As a result, we also wrote that the inn can be purchased from a winegrower who is in the same wineland or country. I wouldn't sell that kind of wine to Gorenjska or from Prekmur to Dolenjska or vice versa, I wouldn't. However, those who already have standards in place in accordance with the law currently in force would not lower those standards, nor should they be required or required by the law, but this would be preposterous in particular. Talking about the quality of wine getting worse because of this change is not true. There is little bad wine in Slovenia. Of course, someone who wants to play the system can play it today. Like I said yesterday, he buys 100 bottles of wine from someone, and then he can still buy a rinfuza with him, and they keep pouring in those 100 bottles because he has the papers, but we know that with these – what do they call them? – chronic stoppers, screws, but you can seal the bottle again. And this is done — even because of such laws as this one. Once again, it is not the intention of any of the vine growers to be harmed; it is only the purpose that after the next four years, if you last four years, you will not say here that there are as many as 1,000 vineyards less. That's all there is to it. But we know how the landscape grows. Then you come out with a proposal to increase the limit on how many acres of vineyards someone must have to set up a building. If I heard correctly, you had it, you sold it, somewhere near Rigel. Someone wants it, someone wants to buy it, someone sells it — and it happens all the time. Then you can limit down there in Slovenia, and you can also ask your Croatian colleagues to limit in Croatia's Istria what kind of plot someone has to buy so that the cottage can be set down. That's not how it works. Let the people have their free will! You have to prescribe every single thing for them. I also want to know if it is true that you are preparing a change that will limit these small vineyards the amount of starch they can buy per year. Because that's another blow! Because what are you doing now?Oh, my God! What you yourself have said is that you will invite the congregations to increase the limit on how many acres you must have so that you can build a wall. That means what? There won't be any new ones. Someone who would like to buy there had, what I know, 100, 200 vines, so much that they have something for themselves – not everyone goes to sea, someone goes to Dolenjska in a building or somewhere else. With the second step, if this is true, you will first prevent new walls from forming and it is true that what is more beautiful than sown valley snacks when you have those vineyards, vines, when you have a beautiful building by the wall? [[…]] It's a rich cultural landscape, not that it destroys it. Ask the tourists who come by, ask the people who drive down the lower highway, foreigners, how they admire those lower walls. This has grown somewhere in your heads to say the landscape — it is not true. We would like to prevent this, and in the second step, we would like more small vineyards to fail if you keep changing the rules or determining how much starch a small vine grower can buy per year. But we know what it's like to have these vineyards, then there's an American cross-section, the Ministry prepares action, warnings, courses and so on every year. Make sure that the vineyards do not grow so that they do not fail, nor will it take so much of these lectures and everything about the American crumb.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you very much. You have been given the floor by all the debaters you wanted, but because the time set for the debate remains, I ask you whether you want to discuss the matter further under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Because yes, let me just read the warning. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposalr, Mr Jan Mahnic and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Now I'm opening the application. Please sign up. We've got quite a few interviewees on the table. Each will have 4 minutes and 40 seconds to discuss. First of all, she gets the word, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. This law, which is now in force, only proves how a bureaucratic system we have in this country. In fact, all those healthy farmers' minds are literally gone, nothing's going on anymore, it looks like if we don't order everything to the smallest detail, people don't work anymore, but it's not true. It is precisely because we have already collected everything that there are no more laws of life and, of course, people are looking for ways to survive in this system at all. The secretary of state said that when they adopted this law, they spoke to all stakeholders. I'm sorry, well, little vine growers didn't even know that such a law was being passed. If some societies, some associations, and so on were involved here, it does not mean that those small ones were involved. And only then did they face this law when the matter was adopted and when they saw what it meant in reality. Once again, it is not that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are in any way suppressing the initiative or impeding the operation of large vineyards, not at all, how we support them. Last but not least, not only are these great processors, who certainly also bring some jobs, but the name Slovenia is transferred and distributed elsewhere in the world because of its quality and quality. But right now we're talking about small vineyards. Earlier, colleague Jean mentioned the constituency, where I was elected, but you know, when I spoke to the people on the ground, they said our agricultural policy was completely flawed. It is not just in the field of wine-growing, but elsewhere. This measure, which we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is nothing more than helping those smaller ones not to give up their jobs, not to lose hope, and to allow them to sell what is left of their production. It was said, “Those who have cooperated in this law say that we will avoid some irregularities and possible violations and what is bad.” Why do we always adopt laws in this country, thinking that all people think bad? I told you yesterday, those who want to be some kind of scoundrel will find a way to speculate again and drive things past a system, those who do well and we make it impossible for them to work with such laws. And that's no use to anyone. As I have said, more than non-life laws, we must adopt more repressive legislation. And that's bad. I claim that there were no more speculators before this law came into effect than today, only other ways were found. But it is true that on the other hand we have made it impossible for those who have so far been able to sell some of those drops to the guesthouses, and it is true, but the guests always decide who they would buy from, what they would buy and what quality they would buy. We're just different here. You want to completely liberalise the system in this country, and we want to leave something to citizens and citizens. Finally, they create this country, they create it to make it work, and not least they pay taxes. Much has been said by the Secretary of State, and I thank her for that. But there is something else, I say quite simply in the end, I am working on this agricultural committee, and we don't really see the Minister at all. He's always sending State Secretarys, and that's how it is today, and that's another reflection of the attitude towards the National Assembly, and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u58	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Valuable secretary of state with co-worker, esteemed colleague and colleagues! The second day we are discussing this proposal, the amendments to the Wine Act. I said a few things myself yesterday, of course about Slovenian vineyards, about Slovenian wine, where there is a lot of positive or very positive, and on some segmental ones that we talked about last night, and today, this is the rest of the point, much negative. Through this debate, yesterday and today, Madam Secretary of State, we note that you have been in the Ministry since 2013. I must say, I hear from your colleagues and colleagues that you are a very working person in this ministry, and I hear this all the time. Many times – and it is not said that I have to agree with all the laws, and it is not said that I am always right, but – many of the non-life laws we have met since 2013 which are probably also due to seeing, I have talked about Haloza myself yesterday, a lot of abandoned vineyards. I also said yesterday that 1.5 farms stop farming daily in the Republic of Slovenia. I would have one suggestion, because sometimes I think I am a bit stupid when we adopt one legislation, I think that the neighbouring Austria is not that far away, but I think that if we take each of the Members, if we take them, I don't know, three opposition members of the coalition village, a respected secretary of state, with what kind of co-workers, with what kind of co-workers, would we go to Austria once or twice, whether we're stupid or in Austria the second climate, another habit of people, or have some other customs or customs, work? When we adopt one legislation that we do not go to look at now there is no border, and we make a photocopy of this agricultural logic that I believe they have in neighbouring Austria, we translate into Slovenian legislation. [[…]] When we prescribe the sentence, I will at least mention the vine grower who has 1000 vines, some wine stays with him at home, some probably for neighbors, relatives, and some of it may be sold, so that he can reimburses himself for that expensive sprinkler, and 6500 euro fines — how many years and how many liters of wine must he process to pay that fine? I mean, if there's any farmers logic here, respected colleagues on my right, then maybe there's something wrong with me if it's a farmer's logic. This morning, before I went to Ljubljana for coffee, I was met by a winegrower. He calculated last night when he listened to us that because, I think, 900 or up to 1000 vines, he has to work with all the costs and that he has to work all year – I think we all know, some of our colleagues also have vineyards at home, how much you work with 1000 vines, how much work it is, but also, of course, if he sells as much as we do, then I will not misinterpret that I will mix foreigners, give for one month for one who comes from Syria. He doesn't have 2 000 euros left, as much as it costs someone to enter Slovenia for the first time. I don't think there's any country of logic here either. And when I talk about these illogical laws, about the fact that we adopted, I don't know, in the previous term -- this is also connected to the walls -- that someone has to get a house number to do a facade, and we can move foreigners to an object without everything, it's an illogical law that we gave someone who drove a moped with an auxiliary bicycle flying at an average speed of 15 kilometers per hour. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your time is up. Mr Andrej Šushmelj has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u60	Madam President, thank you for your word. I'd like to start with the Slovenian river. Let's pour ourselves some pure wine. I think that's what the current legislation is about. The debate mentioned a number of problems, various, some related, some not. One of the problems was the collapse of farms. I find it hard to believe that farms are falling because of wine or because of existing wine legislation, if we are witnessing elsewhere that farms are growing because of regulated legislation. Wine growers buy vineyards, spread. Here we see an phenomenon that is also known in other areas. At first glance, wine growing may not have anything to do with cattle, but, say, a hundred years ago, a typical Slovenian farm had a cow or two. Today this is no longer the case, and the number of farms with cattle is decreasing and the average number of cattle per farm is increasing. It's the same with wine. Yeah, I agree, I'm sorry. Small producers are getting less and less paid for a certain amount of wine production. Larger sellers and producers can, of course, serve with very competitive wine and very competitive price, because this is due to quantitative production. It was mentioned that this was an additional offer. I would not agree with that, but I would like to make another comparison with one another, the brewery. Let's see what's been going on for the last ten years. Slovenia notes the growth and success of micro-beerware, a micro-beerware industry that represents a purely added value. These beers are produced in small quantities, but typically at a higher price, and according to my perception, none of these micro-beers fall to the point of not being proud to mark their beer and sell it under their own brand. So here's the price difference, here's the added value. This is not an added value to protect against this existing legislation. The value added cannot be the wine of suspicious origin. So once again, let us keep the existing legislation so that we can pour ourselves some pure wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your word. Today we have essentially a debate on the success of Slovenian agricultural policy in general and over the longer term. Earlier, in response to a question asked by counterpart Mahnic, it was said that 9 000 farms had been destroyed within ten years. Now I ask the Government whether the measures proposed by you are aimed at preserving Slovenian farms, Slovenian villages, to preserve Slovenian property and cultural landscape, or whether they are measures that go in the opposite direction. If the processing of agricultural areas leaves, if smaller production of meat, wine and so on is closed, then these measures are probably not going in the right direction. If Slovenian agricultural policy were law, at least in the area of wine we would have 100% self-sustainment. Madam Secretary of State, we don't have one. If we have to import 14 million litres of wine, that is as much as the approximately largest Slovenian cellar has, then we are doing benefits to others. We buy uncontrolled wine or maybe controlled, I don't know, from Macedonia or anywhere else, partly merchants, and partly cellars, and from this work it looks like Slovenian wine. But you do everything to wipe out all those who try to do anything in the Slovenian countryside, produce and so on and so on. You give them all kinds of cashiers, ballots, high penalties, and so on. With this Slovenian agricultural policy you have abolished and destroyed small slaughterhouses in the countryside, there are no slaughterhouses in Koroška. You impose penalties for slaughter and transport in forests without a carrier or document, and the penalties are enormous. Even in this case, when it comes to the production of wine, the penalties are enormous, i.e. for minor producers. You know, you have not taken measures to improve the situation in the Slovenian countryside and in the field of Slovenian agriculture, but you are taking radical measures to radically destroy the Slovenian countryside. For radical destruction. And trends are negative. All those who have been vegetating on Slovenian agricultural policy at the Ministry of Agriculture for so long should leave because you are unsuccessful. You're a failure! Your former Minister, Mr Židan, as Secretary of State and others there, who is shaping the fate of the Slovenian countryside, is unsuccessful. Every company that has such trends is closed down, it is impossible to recover because in the long term these things are going in the wrong direction and there are no results. This is exactly what is happening in agriculture, because by means of systemic obstacles, you are causing the deterioration and deterrence of people from farming at all. That's nonsense. That's what you do. If you say that this is a healthy agricultural policy, then it is likely that another test should be introduced anywhere before any law is put into the legislative process. There's no competition for a small winegrower. Small producers – and I'm among them, I've got a few acres of vineyards there – we're not competing with any of them. Even if we were selling, we're not competing with anyone. But if you're going abroad, they're all over the place bragging about home-grown wine in a local inn. And you, on the one hand, are promoting self-sustainment and green production and, I don't know, spending in schools, and on the other hand you're destroying it; you're doing the same thing. In fact, the measures are confused, on the one hand you are forcing, say, zidonica tourism, and on the other hand, these same producers with restrictions, measures and penalties are being destroyed. This is an impossible situation. To propose such a state institution, such measures, is insane. And the measures and penalties and these things are all disproportionate and will not succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kepa has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to the secretaries. I welcome everyone else. We must take all measures to have this beautiful area treated, arranged, so that young heirs will decide to process these beautiful hills where the wine dropper is produced. If the area does not continue to be treated, it will become empty and infested. Economic buildings, building blocks, will also start to collapse, as no more facilities will be needed to store this September drop. The areas will eventually become foresty and unrecognizable. We already have enough forest in Slovenia, already 60% in Slovenia is infested, which is very good for air, but 30% of the area has grown in 100 years. In Dolenjska, however, the facilities are much used because they are still the most accessible to young people, but they leave vineyards and the facilities are still used, thank God. If conditions and financial accessibility were available, they would probably decide to extend the processing process. This measure would, in particular, help the smallest to sell unboiled wine to the nearest inn. The price of wine is already completely on the ground, despite the quality of the produce. It is precisely these measures that would help those smallest vine growers to obtain some of the necessary resources more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting also to Mrs Strniš's secretary! Dear Members, honourable Members! I had to stop by because I'm actually coming from places where the hills are infested. If we are talking about wine here today, when there is actually some kind of proposal coming, this desire comes from people who care about what Slovenia we want, what our hills will have. 5 kilometers from Ptuj, where I live, is planted on Grajenščák, it is planted in Kicar. Now, I'm going to say a little bit more, but the one who says he's Halojan, and it's about raising the cadastral income, and for that farmer, he can't sell something, he's lying. This moment I'm going to say that we're infested because if you ask these vineyards, they're going to tell you it's not worth it, the vineyard isn't worth it, it's not worth it. Tell me what to do on this one-Hector hill. What's in it for me if I don't want a vineyard? From the title, when we talk about proposals, it is necessary because someone brought something from the countryside, some reasons why they would actually allow these people to sell their wine more easily, and then it is said that this has already been rejected. Okay, it was rejected, but did you go to these mountains, did you go to these vineyards, or did you ask these little people, what's worth, and how do you make it worth it? If we raise cadastral incomes, if we don't let a person sell something at various events, at birthday parties, at sports events, we can't sell anything, which isn't run like a big brand, then it doesn't go together. We have the same subsidies in agriculture in the valleys of large farms as we have in the hills, where almost everything has to be processed manually. Well, someone can read something, read it, but if they don't understand it and understand it, then it really doesn't make sense to debate here. I'm going to say again, please, that in our marriages we are more vital, that we have a sense of what our country will be. We also like to walk through, I don't know, higher areas and all our hills in Styria from Ptuj to Lendava, on the other side of the Slovenian mountains, Lenart and so on are expanded. This feast cannot make us proud Slovenians if we look at the Austrians, who already have vineyards over 1500, and the Swiss, who have completely every hill worked. Then let's do something, tell me if it doesn't apply, what's worth it. Perhaps this is a good question for the new Minister as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that again. A number of new issues were mentioned in the debate. A small amendment to the Wine Act by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is actually going against these smallest winemakers or wine growers, should be reiterated that this change does not endanger large winemakers, large wine growers, nor at least by stating the reason for unfair competition. How much wine is imported, we have heard this, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State again, which I respect very much, and I also know that he is very well aware of different areas, at least where I have contact with her, I would like to ask the Secretary of State again, exactly how much wine we import, why we import so much and whether this wine is comparable to the quality of domestic wine. We have a country wine, we have mentioned all the varieties, and we know that all our wine growers produce good wine, quality wine, including smaller wine growers, who are members of wine growers who need to be commended for their work. We, too, in Lithuania or in Šmartnem near Lithuania, have the company Štuc, which is an excellent society, which is also included in the Lower Relationship and so on. In short, everyone is trying, but with this small change of law, we really want to help these smallest vineyards, to have some of this work and their work, and that vineyards will not be abandoned and raised, but will be restored, and that people will have some will to work and that they will at least be rewarded for their work so that they can partially pay the costs they have to bear. Austria was mentioned, a fine example. In addition, Austria is on the shadow side of the Alps and Slovenia is on the sunny side of the Alps. Thus, the production of wine or vineyards should be much better for us than for them, but it is the other way around. In short, it has also been said, and once again, tax rebates, various restrictions [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thus, cadastral income and all these are only obstacles to wine growers and farmers. That's why there's more and more of that going down. Let's go to them, as I said in the previous debate, full of mouths are for small farmers, for small vineyards, for a small man, and let's give them, for fuck's sake, help them. I know that you, both in the coalition and in the government, have the same desire. Let's actually go across the street, take a look at the field, go to these people who work, let's give ourselves some work. I have worked enormously in vineyards, in farms, also in many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, Let us also from experience draw something and be lifelike, do something with a healthy farmer’s cleverness. We use this term quite often and it comes from the area we are currently talking about, from agricultural work, from agriculture, from food production, from domestic food, from domestic wine. Let's not import so much foreign wine, let's not help big producers all over Europe, but let's suppress ours. We can't do this anymore. Large shopping malls have also grown in our country, and small friendly shops in the countryside have gone and gone. That's why we didn't do anything. And they're gone, and people would need them, even older, disabled, those who don't have transportation, little people again, and so on. So there have been quite a few cases with us that are out of place. Even those penalties that we have heard about before are true, these are very high penalties. These provisions are already in law here, if these inspectors can think of to list them at least half, I'll give them to the children of wine or for a litre, no. If he can list this, how many of these I mean, you can't even read it, let alone think of it. [[…]] Let's make this a little bit more generalized, simpler, more friendly and help farmers and vineyards, even the smaller ones that we are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The fact that the coalition and the government oppose the law suggests that they care little the devil about the Slovenian man. You're thinking about Ljubljana, you're thinking about some things in here, and you're forgetting about the people who beat this Ljubljana. As it turns out, we would like to establish the wine commissioners, which is nice and right, but we also need to take care of those small ones who barely survive and have those few litres or 100 liters of wine to help them survive in this country that does not care about people. The destruction of vineyards, the destruction of vineyards, the cultivation is great – and what will happen to it? Simply, the foreigners will come, the Austrians can't wait to pick up everything together and put it all together into one of the big vineyards, and we'll just be workers, entrepreneurs, or as they call it, in their vineyards. They used to be winemakers who lived by the vineyard and worked, the gentleman came, gave the command, the servants worked. Our government wants to do something like this with our people. You're saying you'll stop the sale of bad wine. Don't talk to me about it! Go to Ljubljana around here and order a cook, you will get water with Italian powder mixed in – and this is great, Jankovic will clap, everyone will pay for what, and after three glasses of that wine only to go to the toilet, then either above or below. I mean, but you don't care! [[…]] You don't care. As for the import of wine – yes, we import and destroy our small vineyards. And then you give some terrible punishment to the growers, and why don't we just get these growers to square it up, and then you have peace forever? In the next step, let Slovenian songs be banned, such as: “One hill I will buy, I will plant vines, ” and give it another way: I will cut vines, and I will sell a hill. [[…]] Because this is where it all goes together, and this government is doing it, of course, as far as the previous Cerar government, where agricultural policy was a total dysaster, as the young people say today, we used to call it shit. And what's going on? Our inn is empty. Let's say we take the case at the Austrian border. On that side is Weinstraße and there they can pour their wine at home, flattened, without any markings, even food can serve there without anything, have no tax receipts or anything like that. On our side it's all closed and empty, even on the roads you're having trouble meeting someone other than some cop who can stop you from blowing. In Austria, they stop you at the corner, but they say: "Beware, there is a dangerous road, and go home." And you don't have to pay the fine. I speak from experience, please, my dear lady. And we have tax receipts. Here I show you, these are the leaves I got about three weeks ago in Berlin. Without a tax box in the center of Berlin, when I went for a drink, I was so beautifully written on a brick that I had to pay, and the matter was resolved. With us, I don't know, we'd like to close up, pick up, and take pictures of the Slovenian spires, but that wasn't paid. You have brought this country so far! Then another brief comment on the comparison of wine production and production, production of beer. This shows that the man who said it has no idea about the thing. For wine you need a vineyard, you need a vine, you need a beer – it can also be boiled with appliances in the garage. In short, it is sad that our country does not care about people and does not support this law, which in at least one small segment improves the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Now the Secretary of State has the floor. Tanya Strnisha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Each winegrower and winemaker can sell open wine in their cellar, called unoriginally stuffed wine, each. As is the case, honourable Member, in Austria, also with us. On the wine roads, or if there is no wine road, in its wall, in its basement, every sale can be made and nothing changes with the law that has been in force since 2013 or with your law. There is also the highest added value. Without the tax register – I am indeed a secretary of state for some time and, of course, I also have a historical memory, in the mandate of the previous government, we have abolished the limit in the Income Act, which previously laid down the code to which the vineyard farmer can be taxed after the cadastral income and from where to keep the books. Tax registers are not required for wine growers. They must have tax collectors who have other crops than vineyards. Once again, the bottled wine means that it is originally closed in a bottle or bottle, and that, even if your law is passed, it will be considered that such wine must go to the analysis and that, if not on the label, it must have a document, where the information on that wine will be, and that therefore there is no essential difference in the meaning of the producer's obligation, only the packaging must be closed. And when you mention Austria, our professional services checked in Austria. Their professional services have said that they do not have these problems in Austria, as they do not have the transport of unboiled or unoriginally stuffed wine. Even you, honourable Members, in your proposal for a law, when you mention the case of Austria, have nothing to do with how they have unoriginally stuffed wine. I am interested, indeed, in whether we went here differently or harder than Austria, but above all, look, with all the responsibility and in particular with respect for the views of our winegrowers, I speak and present here the opinion of the Government. And I must address the subject of punishment as a matter of urgency. I believe that there was a mistake in your law already in 2016 and now, and that is why I did not expose it, but you have reduced the penalties, especially for natural persons, but not for small producers of a natural person where you have proposed the same penalties. I believe it's a lapsus and an amendment to fix it. Because you predicted for natural persons if large producers are fines of thousands of 100 to thousands of 300; if medium, from 850 to 700, they are higher than for large ones; and for small, between 650 and 6 thousand 500. You didn't propose a reduction of punishment here either, but I believe, once again, I believe it was a lapsus. And that's why I haven't been able to point that out. Once again, I say that the penalties, such as those laid down in the applicable law, were halved by the amendment of the Committee at the previous reading – as I remember it, yes, it was adopted in 2013. And at the time, these penalties were half lower, with this amendment now in force half lower than those proposed by the growers. We have imposed the same penalties and the system of penalties is as the growers proposed at the time. And also, it's just an observation and information, cooked wine is a product of wine and it doesn't fall under this law. However, there is no limit to the loading of unoriginally loaded wine for must. It is said that the must is regulated by law, but this restriction does not apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic, as the last speaker, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u74	Well, that's the least of your problems as far as punishment is concerned. Let the law go forward, put it out in the second reading if you want, but the fact that it will still only be the original packaging, and correct with the amendment what is involved, and it will be exactly what you have now proposed. Mr. Shushmelj spoke about beer and these micro-beers, what success they had, what prosperity. One thing is what colleague Jelinčič mentioned, what is the difference between wine and beer production, and nothing bad about those who are involved in brewing. It is these micro-believers that are certainly our pride and bear the name of Slovenia in the world, but let us be clear – what has this country done for brewery? Do you know Bevo's brewery? Someone wanted to open a brewery on our side of the border, and because he was so busy getting a water concession that they didn't want to give him, he went to the Austrian Radgona, there was a few miles across the border, he immediately got a concession, he set up a great brewery, a Slovenian, and today he's collecting the world's prizes for this beer, for Tak, for Kramah and so on. It's a great brewery. I've been up to visit twice before, we've been with hunters, we've been with the Slovenian Democratic Party Municipal Committee twice, and we've both learned about the problems that were involved in Slovenia and why they opened the brewery there. There is nothing different about winemaking with such bureaucratic measures and failure to act. And exactly what Comrade Tanko said, have been there for five years, no results. When we talked about this yesterday, and when we talk about it today, three additional farms have collapsed, 1.5 farms have collapsed in the Republic of Slovenia, and you are still there. Give me one result to show you, Madam Secretary of State, without calling the President of the largest wine-growing association in Slovenia to write an opinion. We can go to the field and ask these little vineyards. We can go to the big ones, but we support the big ones, and we support the small ones. But you just want to – I don't know whose interest, I don't know what's behind – do nothing to keep small vineyards safe. And as I said yesterday, and I will repeat, while for one boutique tourism of five stars, like the Republic of Slovenia promotes that he goes to the Portorož Hotel Palace and orders a butter for what I know, 120 euros, is for someone, an Englishman – I know them myself, colleagues – boutique tourism to sit in London on EasyJet, fly to Ljubljana, rent a car, go to Dolenjska, rent a wall for four days and be with company there. They go swimming in Dolenjske Toplice or in Šmarješke Toplice, take some hike along the Slakov and Pavčko trails, try some homemade salami, homemade crops and so on. For someone, it's boutique five-star tourism. But apparently you recognize boutique tourism of five stars only where people leave a few thousand euros, and someone who comes, but if there are more who leave money to those little ones who have something else to do with it, you don't care. As long as Slovenia has such a strategy, then several thousand more vineyards, not farms, but several thousand more vineyards will fail in the next four years, because obviously the measures you have presented today or better said them will not go in the right direction. Unless it's really your goal, what do I know, some consortiums that will buy grapes from small vineyards or then turn it into a letter there for 60, 70 cents, that's it. And everyone will finish the story. They'll have those 200, 300 liters a year for themselves, and that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on the amendment of the legislation on gassilence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 24 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! First, there's something essential. Before you come to this Chamber by the coalition Members and speak in your position about how the Slovenian Democratic Party is re- tabled by this law, let me just remind you that we have already tabled this law in the previous term and it has been confirmed in the first reading. He was also confirmed by the votes of Mr Tomaž Gantar, Primož Hainz, Franca Jurša, Benedict Kopmayer, Marjane Kotnik Poropat, Marija Antonije Kovacič, Marinka Levičar, Uroša Pikla and Peter Wilphan. In short, the Desus Group has supported this law that we have here today. Also some Members of the Modern Centre Party. But what happened? Since the Prime Minister resigned, this law did not come to a second reading, where we said in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we were ready to accept further amendments. This law, which we have now proposed, is not exactly because we have already followed one of the comments from the previous term of office, namely Article 3, we wrote: “The State shall provide voluntary operational firefighters with funding for additional health insurance and, for each day, for the implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting, additional pension insurance.” Here we have changed that instead of “and for every day the public fire service” we have put “implementation of operational fire operations”, which is a narrower term. It is operational because the public fire service is all, it is also readiness, they are fire drills and so on, it is written in the Fire Service Regulation. In Slovenia we have been listening to the last two or three mandates of the Slovenian governments in recent years as to how the status of a voluntary firefighter will be regulated. Unfortunately, we do not come to the use of the words we listen to. Over the past four years, we have listened to how coordination at the last stage and how Members of Parliament will get a law on the table to settle the matter. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you who is preparing a change in the law, change and regulation of the status of a voluntary firefighter, which can be regulated by several articles, four years and perhaps another year more and possibly another year more. Someone who takes this issue seriously, makes a working group, has to be settled in six months. Because it's not about changing the whole law. And because this is not and is not, and despite the sessions of the Defence Committee that we had in the previous term, and despite the questions we sent last year, we proposed a special law after December 2017, where the things we gave to those firefighters at the time of the intervention law were put into that intervention law and addressed it separately as a proposal for the Fireextinguishment Act. The remark, which was one of the main ones, is that for the financing of each day of the implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting, we have taken into account, replaced in relation to the public fire service, we have briefly gone into the narrower part that it is really only operational, not everything. It remains: “The status of an operational volunteer firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter, which stimulates the employment of firefighters by reducing insurance premiums and tax reliefs for the employer.” And in Article 2, we propose a new 3rd and 4th points, "providing means to secure operational firefighters" and "providing means for preventive health checks of operational firefighters". The law, as I have already said, was in a slightly amended form, and this amended form refers to the main comments that were adopted in the first reading in the previous term. In the second reading, we would also follow with our amendments some of the nomotechnical corrections that are necessary, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wrote, and in this case we are also prepared to follow that in our country you have to make every step and every single thing you need to prescribe, because otherwise you do not know what it is. In short, we are proposing a law that was adopted in the previous term in the first reading and no second reading has occurred as a result of the resignation of the Prime Minister. However, it will be interesting to see one of the parliamentary groups, which, at that time two months before the elections, supported this law, how it will now vote on a proposal which, in view of the discussions that were held at that time, is also acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. In order to introduce the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Milos Biszak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u78	Dear Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Firefighting in our country is the foundation of rescue services in the face of the many natural and other disasters we face. Without fire-fighting, we cannot practically imagine a system of protection against natural and other disasters, so the Government is committed to improving the situation in the field of fire-fighting. In this context, the Government will, in a short time, submit a proposal to supplement the Firearms Act, which will deal more appropriately and in a comparable way with other uniformed professions, regulate a permanent allowance for professional firefighters, since the proposal for a law in the previous term has not been considered. The Ministry of Defence also prepares the starting points for the new Firearms Act. With regard to the law under consideration today, however, the Government considers that the proposed Act on the Complements of the Firearms Act is so substantive and nominally weak that it cannot be supported. Let me briefly explain that position. We believe that the proposal for a law in the main does not follow the principle of certainty. As already in the first proposed solution relating to the addition of Article 4(5) of the applicable Firearms Act, it is not clear at all which premiums secured should be reduced for employers, nor would any tax relief be granted to them. It is also not clear from the proposed solution whether the proposed solution relates only to new jobs or to existing jobs. A similar assessment of the indeterminability of the proposed solutions is also applicable to the completion of Article 26 of the applicable Firearms Act, which makes it unclear what health insurance is to be provided to voluntary firefighters by the State, either in addition or in addition. A reasonable equal question is also raised with regard to the provision of pension insurance, whether it is compulsory supplementary pension insurance or supplementary pension insurance. In terms of the substantive assessment of the proposed solutions, it should be clarified that certain status issues, including protection in the exercise of protection and resolution duties, are already covered by the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, even when firefighters are involved in the Fires Act. Thus, the law already provides that the costs of health, disability and pension insurance and the rights set out in the preceding paragraphs of this Article shall be borne by the State or by the local community if the person is not insured on another basis. The law has already provided for the Protection and Rescue Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to provide for operational volunteer firefighters and other rescue workers who, on the basis of national and regional protection and rescue plans, can be deployed from less vulnerable areas to the area affected by the accident and to take over the costs of health checks in the implementation of training programmes for particularly difficult rescue tasks. Firefighters' insurance is also governed by the Firearms Act, which already provides that operational firefighters must be insured in the event of death, permanent loss of general working ability and temporary incapacity to work caused by an accident of fire and rescue and other operational tasks of firefighting or exercise, during schooling or training. Professional firefighters already have the right to recognise the insurance period by increasing or compulsory supplementary pension insurance in accordance with the general rules. Voluntary firefighters' insurance is governed by the Firearms Act. Under the law, the Ministry implements provisions on the insurance of firefighters, both professional and voluntary. For this purpose, the Ministry of Defence shall have a contract of insurance for insured persons, including operational firefighters and other paramedics, which may be sent from less vulnerable areas to the area affected by the accident. In total, 800 persons are insured in such a case. Taking that into account, the State has already ensured certain rights of operational firefighters subject to the law in question, including their financing. It follows from the Law on protection against natural and other disasters that, in the event of a natural or other accident, forces and resources of local communities are first used, only in cases where the large extent of the accident or threat of force and resources of the local community are not sufficient, the State shall ensure the use of force and resources from a wider area, including the financing of firefighting tasks. The proposed addition of Article 8(1) of the Firearms Act, whereby the State should also provide funds for the insurance of operational firefighters and means for the preventive health checks of operational firefighters in the event of such accidents, derogate from this justification and such arrangements constitute only a transfer of obligations from municipalities to the country and, consequently, leads to the maintenance of a public fire service, which of course we do not want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. The first is Mr Franc Jurša, on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you, Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! About a year ago, professional firefighters alerted us to unregulated conditions and wage anomalies. The government then responded to the statement's forecast by proposing an expert agreement on wage regulation or personal income. The Agreement was signed on both sides. The government then adopted a proposal for a law supplementing the Fires Act in March this year and sent it to the National Assembly for consideration. The law is intended to regulate the right to obtain a permanent allowance. On the same day as the Government has adopted the above-mentioned proposal for a law, a law has been tabled by the Members with the same content and by the same motioners as it is now, we are dealing with this today. What happened to both the laws, both the government and the Member of Parliament, which were filed at the beginning of the year, we all know well. The fate of both laws followed the fate of the previous Congress of the Republic of Slovenia. The consideration of laws has been completed, and we are now dealing with the same issue again. Let me begin by saying that we have very well organised firefighting. We have good trained operative firefighters, and they are well taken care of both at national and local level. I know this from my own experience, because I have been engaged in firefighting for over 50 years, voluntarily, but sometimes also professionally, but not as a pure firefighter. When you're connected to firefighters, you know what they need for their work. I come from an area where firefighting is highly developed. Northeastern Slovenia has its own fire company in almost every village, even in small ones, where there are forty house numbers. It's a tradition, and thank God it is. As we sometimes do not understand the importance of the goods we have, unfortunately, the role of our firefighters is only conscious of natural and other disasters. When that happens, they're very important. Their ministry is a mission that threatens their lives to save another life. Of course, they do not just save human lives, including animals, movables, and property. We can be proud of the data that the number of volunteer firefighters in Slovenia is increasing every year, but not decreasing. I would like to point out that in the Desus Group we always support proposals to improve the situation in the field of firefighting, but we are aware that the absence of voluntary firefighters from work poses such a problem for the employer as well as, of course, for operational firefighters. It is therefore stated in the law in force that the compensation for absence from work shall be reimbursed for operational firefighters to their employers by the municipality or the competent national authority. Insurance and preventive health checks for operational firefighters are also provided. The current regulation also provides that professional firefighters shall have the right to recognise the insurance period by increasing or compulsory supplementary pension insurance in accordance with the general rules. It must be said, however, that not all issues relating to the situation of firefighters are regulated only in the Firearms Act, but also in the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. This law provides, for example, that the costs of health, disability and pension insurance shall be borne by the State or by the local community, unless, of course, the person is insured on a different basis. The Authority of the Republic of Slovenia shall also provide for the protection and rescue of operational volunteer firefighters and other rescue workers who may be deployed from less vulnerable areas to the area affected by the accident on the basis of national regional protection and rescue plans. In view of the above, we can find that we already have a fairly well-managed fire extinguishers status, but of course some improvements or upgrades are still needed in certain segments. In view of the Government's emphasis on the importance of firefighting as a humanitarian activity in the public interest, in the Desus Group, we expect to receive as soon as possible a proposal on the parliamentary bench for a comprehensive renewal of this service in the new Firearms Act, which is already in preparation. Although the proposaler had earlier mentioned that this has not been on the bench for four years, the latest information I received from the Slovenian Administration for Protection and Resolution, that they are preparing matters and that the organisation of a professional fire service is also very important here. Otherwise, the Government is expected to receive this year's draft law, which will also include a permanent allowance in accordance with the strike agreement for firefighters. With regard to the bill, however, I must say that there are some shortcomings, or some solutions, in the proposed law are vague, but also inconclusive, non-systematic. We also miss an assessment of the financial implications that would burden the country or the local community. Yes, money is a holy ruler, and that is something to think about. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the importance of the fire service and agree with the proponents that we must further improve their status and ensure better working conditions for them. I think we all agree on this in this room, but it is important how we do this. In our Group of Members, we are not quite sure that this proposal is appropriate, so we will decide on support at the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jani Ivanuš has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you very much again. Nice greeting, Madam Vice President, everyone else is here! We have before us a proposal for a law on additions to the Firearms Act. People in general expect firefighters to always help us. In fact, our firefighters are always ready to come to our aid, even when it is not so urgent, even when it is not even a task that should be judged by firefighters. We are happy to meet firefighters on firemen's pleasures and at the pre-election time when our calendars come. In an accident, you meet a friend, and when we need help, we often turn to firefighters. Firefighters always help us unconditionally, even though people’s expectations for firefighters are sometimes too high. Firefighters are also just people who sacrifice their free time and their health to help others. It is therefore right to support firefighting, in particular voluntary firefighting, not only by saying thank you, but specifically by giving them more resources from the state budget. This is also a real expression of gratitude for their sacrificial work. At the end of 2017, the firefighter organization in Slovenia counted 162 thousand 575 members, according to some data about 50,000 operational firefighters were expected in Slovenia. The cost of supplementary health insurance is around EUR 30 per month, which would cost the financing of supplementary health insurance for operational firefighters about EUR 1.5 million per month. It is more difficult to assess the financial implications of additional pension insurance for each day of the implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting. The calculation depends on the number and extent of catastrophic events. In recent years, we have especially remembered weather conditions, floods, acorns, winds, and their consequences have been resolved and will continue for quite some time. Taking into account all the non-economic expenditure our budget has, it seems that the expenditure of investing in offshore firefighting drops to the state budget, but at the same time a grateful benefit for operational firefighters, we will therefore support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position for the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u84	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the firefighter's position is, despite the many promises made by the State to regulate the status of both professional and voluntary firefighters, far from the desired goal and, in particular, far from being desired by the firefighters. We are also aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party of the importance of the operation of firefighting in our society, especially when we need them, that these should be natural traps, fires, traffic accidents, the protection of our assets against fire and could also be listed. In particular, I would like to point out that firefighters and firefighters are the ones who are sacrificingly concerned that even in our most difficult moments, what is most precious is safe, and that is the life of people. Therefore, everyone in politics should be aware that we are obliged to listen with utmost care to firefighters and firefighters, to hear them, to help them when it comes to regulating their status, to alert us to technical deficiencies, to alert us to poor and used equipment and so on. However, it usually ends in words. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have therefore drawn up a proposal for a law on additions to the Firearms Act, which follows exactly those changes that, if it is given a green light today to continue the parliamentary procedure, will support the operation of the fire service. The draft law complements the status of an operational firefighter, which provides that the status of an operational volunteer firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter, which stimulates the employment of firefighters by reducing insurance premiums for the employer and by providing tax reliefs. It is determined that due to the nature of the part of firefighters who are always first and risk their lives in order to help others, they provide funds for the insurance of operational firefighters and also means for preventive health checks of operational firefighters. The draft law also provides that the Republic of Slovenia shall provide voluntary operational firefighters with financing of additional health insurance and, for each day, with additional pension insurance for the implementation of the operational tasks of firefighting. I ask all parliamentary parties in this composition: Is what we wrote in the law too much? Do any of the Members and Members of the coalition parties hope to say that we are asking too much in the Slovenian Democratic Party for operational firefighters? I am convinced that all of us sitting in this hall are well aware of our responsibilities to firefighters and firefighters, especially when we return to our congregations and firefighters, to their general assemblies, where they like to ask us what we have done to improve firefighting in our society in general. That is why I ask and call upon all of you, fellow Members and Members, to do what our conscience and responsibility dictates, and to support this bill today.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The following will present Mr Jože Lenart's position on behalf of the Marjan Sarca Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u86	Dear President, Honourable Secretary, colleague and colleague! The proposal to amend the law seeks to improve the social situation of operational firefighters and to encourage the employment of operational volunteer firefighters among employers. The proposal concerns the reduction of insurance premiums and tax reliefs in employers who employ voluntary firefighters. It also proposes to provide additional health insurance and supplementary pension insurance for each day of the execution of the voluntary firefighter’s field duties. The existing Firearms Act treats rights and duties separately for professional firefighters and voluntary firefighters. The proposal itself notes that the principle of writing clear and comprehensible rules, which are key to ensuring the legal security of the entities to which the rules apply, is being violated. The proposal does not show which insurance premiums are to be reduced to the employer, the uncertainty relates to tax reliefs and who is to receive them. The applicant did not clearly define the status of an operational volunteer firefighter in terms of employment and unemployment. There is no clear definition of health insurance and pension insurance. We must stress that the Ministry of Defence is preparing a comprehensive revision of the Firearms Act, which will include the contents that form part of this proposal from the Group of Members. It is therefore not appropriate to support this proposal at this stage, since the proposal does not provide all solutions to this important area. We further wish to highlight some important facts of firefighting in Slovenia, which is an important factor and a fundamental pillar of our system of protection against natural and other disasters. This leads us to a fundamental approach and a recast of the Firearms Act. Thus, the importance of firefighting in Slovenia is increasing. Voluntary fire companies bring together over 150,000 members, more than 45,000 operative firefighters, including a circus of 30% and a circus of 25% of young people, and each year they perform a circus of 12 thousand interventions. Their tasks range from putting out fires to intervention in natural and other disasters. Most of the society is financed by local communities, Circus 80 million, part of the country, Circus 5.5 million. Voluntary firefighting has a 150-year tradition in Slovenia. However, the task of fire companies is much more than just to put out and rescue fires. In them, people found social support and solidarity, unselfish help in every accident. Through fire companies, members have shown belonging to the Slovenian people and the existence of this consciousness. Today, in many places firefighting companies are the ones that bring together and connect citizens in activities and activities, in addition to the area of protection against fires in cultural and other fields, and we are also joining in on their website. In the field of voluntary firefighting, Slovenia belongs to the very top of the world. Slovenian firefighting is the basic pillar of our system of protection against natural and other disasters. There is no such force in our country that so many people will come to our aid in such a short time. The firefighter organisation is also the most important and most numerous general rescue service in the system of protection against natural and other disasters and an important factor in ensuring national security in this area, they warn in relation. For Slovenia, this is the optimal solution in combination with voluntary firefighting with professional units. At the Ministry of Defence, however, they also attach great importance to the field of firefighting. During the previous term of office, the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters for the period 2016-2022 was adopted by the National Assembly. This programme once again exposes the status of firefighters or voluntary rescue workers. In the field of firefighting, the new national programme places greater emphasis on preventive action to ensure a higher level of fire safety in local communities, the acquisition of heavy firefighting techniques, in particular fire extinguishers, the maintenance of fire protection and rescue equipment updates and the equalization of firefighting and other rescue services in municipalities with poor material capabilities, the further development of psychological assistance for rescue workers, the promotion of the organisation, monitoring and training of first-aid teams in firefighting units, the increased attention to the joint training of members of the various structures included in the protection and resolution system, and the promotion of the development of training and other capacities developed by municipalities or individual rescue services, in particular those organised by non-governmental organisations, in this regard, the regional fire brigades for the purpose of developing procedures. Finally, I would like to add another good example of life. This year I was at a celebration in Libelich. Libelics are known for plebiscite and in 1922, they are connected back to their homeland. Four years from now, they'll be celebrating the 100th anniversary of this decision. There they were from a few proud villages with the seat of a congregation that reached up to Zvabek, a nearby congregation in Austria, and down to Měžica with 3 inn and 2 shops, with wooden merchants who were packing wood with rafts on Drava. Our ancestors ’ concern and love for the breastplate, and with the stings of the creation of goods, were united into a single goal — how to resist the red rooster with the joint strength. To this end, a voluntary fire company was established in March 1891. They started modestly, built a small tool and bought an old hand-gun from the Pliber fire company in Austria. In 1912, they bought a new, sophisticated hand-held syringe, which served until 1938 and is still useful today. This particular syringe is part of plebiscite history. After her decommissioning, she was taken from Libelič by firefighters from the neighboring Austrian village of Potoče. In June 1923, members of the firefighters' company from Libelič performed an illegal action when Libelič again belonged to Slovenia and drove the syringe back across the border to Libelič at night. This gave rise to conditions for the resuscitation of firefighting in Libelić. How did one of the citizens see this action? "That night we were gathered about 20. The whole Libellis were on their feet. They used to cook sausages all over the houses, and they used to burn us in the crust. On the border that day, we were guarded by favored border guards, and we agreed that they would not trouble us. The whole action took place with such an urgency that I still don't understand it today. With the wagon we pulled ourselves, we snuck across the border into the neighboring village of Potoče, like in a trance we broke into a firehouse, our lock had already been cut in front of us, and it was already spraying on the wagon. Then we were wood, wood, and suddenly we were in the middle of Libelič. Then joy, such joy, and, of course, salvation. This was at the same time a crown of hot plebiscite adventure.« Firehouse Libeliča today: 120 members are organised in a voluntary fire company, together with a young man, they have their own firehouse, their own water tanks, a tool fire truck and a fire truck. They have good neighbourly relations with neighbouring firefighters in the region and across the border. The members of the voluntary firefighters' team, Libeliča, won the 1st place in the national competition 19. 6. 2010
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The next position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. On 15 November, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group re tabled a proposal for a law supplementing the Fire Action Act and provided some pre-new propaganda programme. It withdrew a bill already tabled in March this year and its treatment ended with the termination of the mandate of the previous Assembly. That the purpose of the bill is only promotion, shows the fact that today we are having a general debate on the identical proposal of the law at the request of the SDS. This is further highlighted by the proposals for solutions contained in them. The substance of the proposal is to change the definition of the status of an operative firefighter by extending to the relationship between the employer and the firefighter. The employment of voluntary firefighters is to be promoted by reducing insurance premiums and tax reliefs to employers, and the State is also to provide additional pension insurance to the voluntary operational firefighter for each day of the fire service. As pointed out in the Government's opinion, such a change in the definition of operational firefighter status is entirely inappropriate. The values of voluntary firefighting care for persons of very different occupations and jobs, unemployed persons, as well as students and self-employed persons, so many volunteer firefighters and firefighters would be excluded from the proposed solution. It is not even clear from the bill which premiums are supposed to be the subject of a reduction, while the facilitations for employers are generally and indeterminate. However, the lack of seriousness of the proposal is best borne in mind by an assessment of the financial implications which the applicant does not even try to make. In doing so, we must draw attention to another infamous merit of the SDS. It was precisely because of the bill we are discussing today that it was impossible to adopt a supplement to the Firearms Act, which would bring about an agreement between the Government and the trade fire syndicates on a permanent allowance that would make the position of professional firefighters comparable to that of other authorised officials. If a law had been passed by the Ministry of Defence under the leadership of then Minister Andreja Katič, they would have been from 1. 1. 2018 Firefighters are also eligible for the calculation of the resulting difference, and thus, thanks to the SDS, the agreement has remained unrealised and a thousand 200 professional firefighters have not been added. Social Democrats will always support good solutions, not only for firefighters and firefighters, but also for others involved in the protection and rescue system, to ensure better working conditions, better equipment and other measures that promote unselfish and self-sacrifice for the benefit of society as a whole. In this light, we welcome the Government's intention to table a bill this year that will finally give professional firefighters an agreed permanent allowance, and we will engage constructively in the debate on a new proposal for a Firearms Act prepared by the Government, which must go towards improving the status and rights of both professional and voluntary firefighters. In our view, however, the SDS proposal is not suitable for further consideration due to poorly prepared and lacking solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u90	The proposal for an Act supplementing the Fires Act, submitted by the SDS Group of Members, provides that the status of an operational volunteer firefighter should be regulated as a relationship between the employer and the firefighter in such a way as to reduce the insurance premiums for the employer who employs firefighters and be eligible for tax reliefs. The State would also provide funds to provide for operational firefighters and funds for their preventive health checks and would cover additional health insurance for voluntary operational firefighters and pay them additional pension insurance for each day of the implementation of operational tasks. Let me first point out that in the SMC Group, we are constantly working to improve the situation in the field of firefighting as important humanitarian activities in the public interest, including the improvement of the status and rights of both professional and voluntary firefighters. However, improvements in the situation in the field of firefighting will not be achieved through such draft laws, which are not merely inadequate in substance and nomotechnically, but completely empty and cannot be supported. We must note that the bill has been written extremely superficially, that it is prepared without the precise justification of the substantive solutions and without a more precise definition of the beneficiaries, and without the definition of the content of the rights to be allocated to them. Such a proposal is not nearly enough to meet the criteria of clarity and certainty of the rules. If we look more closely at the first proposed solution, it is not at all clear which premiums are insured for employers who employ firefighters to reduce, nor would their tax reliefs be, whether the proposed solution relates only to new jobs or also to existing and still existing ones. Finally, it should be added that the regulation of tax content under non-tax laws is generally not permissible, since the tax treatment of taxable persons in terms of clarity, transparency, legal certainty and equal treatment of taxable persons in similar situations can only be governed by laws governing individual types of taxation. However, it is also crucial to take account of fair and effective taxation when regulating taxes, which means that individual tax proposals need to be viewed in a comprehensive manner, not only in terms of one measure, one group or one area. The proposed solution for the completion of Article 26 of the Firearms Act is also inconclusive, since it does not clearly indicate which health insurance is to be provided to voluntary firefighters, either in addition or in addition. A reasonable equal question is also raised with regard to pension insurance. The proposal cannot even determine whether all volunteer firefighters would be entitled to additional rights, i.e. around 150 000 in the Republic of Slovenia, or only those with a certain number of interventions carried out and whether the proposal for a law relates to new or existing employment. In addition, the applicant did not try to assess the financial implications of the proposed law, but frankly points out that the financial consequences of the new rights are currently difficult to make, but the funds are provided. We believe that this is not enough and that the solutions proposed should be so clear and precise as to allow for an appropriate assessment of the financial implications. For all these reasons, of course, we will vote in the parliamentary group against the fact that the bill is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Koražija will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Voluntary firefighting has a long tradition in Slovenia and is still the foundation of fire safety. Based on values, humanity, solidarity and mutual assistance. In particular in rural areas, voluntary firefighters also play an important social role and offer assistance to people not only in the event of fires and natural disasters, but also in other crises. Thus, voluntary firefighting proves that people, like us often want to convince liberals, individuals and individuals who are motivated only by their own benefits and maximization of these benefits at the expense of their fellow human beings, but we are primarily social and solidarity beings, born of solidarity. Solidarity wants to choke itself in capitalism with the ideology of the constant struggle against everything. Therefore, it seems unacceptable to us in Levica that the SDS, with the proposal of the Firearms Act that we are considering today, wants to reduce the status of an operational volunteer firefighter to, quote, “the relationship between the employer and the firefighter”. Such a law is directed against all voluntary firefighters in Slovenia, and for purely principled reasons in Levica we cannot vote against it except before we can even reach concrete legal solutions. The status of a voluntary firefighter is not, cannot and must not be, the relationship between a worker and a employer based on the exploitation of work and the acquisition of excessive value created by workers and workers, in this case firefighters and firefighters. The SDS proposes that employers who employ firefighters be reduced in insurance premiums and granted tax reliefs. Workers and workers, who are also volunteer firefighters, will not benefit from this measure in any material way except to be more employable. However, they will have concrete material benefits for employers who, by adopting this proposal, would also reduce their labour costs and increase their profits. In addition to the reduced budget premiums, as proposed by the SDS, the insurance premiums for firefighters and firefighters would then be equal to those they are already paying. In other words, higher profits at the expense of reducing labour costs would be paid directly from the State budget. From a budget that also pays for all social transfers, education, health care and so on. And that is not all, at the expense of lower tax benefits for employers, also proposed by the SDS with this law, this budget would continue to be poor and the money for social transfers would be even less. In short, at the expense of the associated higher profits of employers, the SDS would deplete the state budget and consequently social transfers, education and health care financed directly from this budget. The adoption of this law would have negative effects on all those who need help in this country, because we know that they would not agree to lower military spending in the SDS. And at their expense, private capital would be used. These are the concrete material effects of this law. Effects that would be at the expense of reduced insurance premiums and income allowances for employers where persons who are both volunteer firefighters and firefighters are already employed. The proposed law is therefore diametrically opposed to the values of solidarity and mutual assistance on which voluntary firefighting is based. After careful consideration, this law would probably not be supported by any voluntary firefighter or firefighter who voluntarily decided to sacrifice their lives in order to help others and who truly believe in the values we speak of. The supposed higher employability of non-employable volunteer firefighters and firefighters remains at the level of the pious wishes of the applicants. In particular, in the light of the fact that employability is affected in particular by knowledge, skills and other competences, not by how much the employer saves on a worker for tax benefits based on membership in a voluntary firefighting society. To conclude, it is not self-evident that fires, floods, or other disasteres will come to the rescue of firefighters who fearlessly rescue people and their property. This is due to a long tradition of firefighting based on voluntary, unpaid work. And this is often used by this country to push down the wages of firefighters and to have a relatively small professional firefighter service compared to other European countries. We have already warned about this in the past mandate in Levika and have demanded higher salaries for firefighters and firefighters. At one of the urgent meetings of the Defence Committee in the previous term, we also voted on the conclusions that we have proposed in Levica, by which the Government Committee ordered the abolition of salary anomalies for the activity of professional firefighting. And these conclusions were also realized at the beginning of this year. There is a significant difference between us and the SDS. We believe that firefighters and firefighters must also be properly rewarded for their work, and the SDS believes that their employers must be properly rewarded for their work. We will vote against the bill in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Reberšek will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u94	Dear Vice-President, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! Whoever you ask today is the answer to palms, who are always the first to offer assistance in all kinds of natural and other disasters. Firefighters, whether voluntary or professional, are the first at the scene of an accident, often risking their lives to save the lives of others. And if you ask which of the uniformed professions – police officers, members of the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army, firefighters – should be best rewarded for the work done, the answer is the same. In Novi Slovenija, we have already pointed out in the mandate of Alenka Bratušek and Mira Cerar that unfair and unacceptable moves have been put on the edge by firefighters and firefighters. In 2013, in the process of adopting the real estate tax law, we proposed to exempt all protection and rescue facilities from the compulsory taxation, which is called firehouses. In 2016, we proposed a new Law on tax clearance of accounts which would exempt voluntary firefighting companies, which as humanitarian societies are largely financed by voluntary contributions and donations from legal and natural persons, as debtors under this law. Firefighters are actually under-rewarded, they could even say they are neglected, and the government only promises to improve their status. This occurs most often in the event of major natural and environmental disasters, where they do not hesitate to do the most difficult and life - threatening work. Remember the fire in Kemis, Vrhnika, when the state repaid them for their sacrificial work — with promises. In Nova Slovenija we welcome today's proposal for concrete solutions that provide additional health and pension insurance and preventive checks. The solutions are welcome for employers whose state will reduce insurance premiums and provide them with tax reliefs and operational firefighters will have the right to preventive health checks and additional health insurance, and for each day the public fire service will also have the right to supplementary pension insurance. Nevertheless, we believe that the integrated regulation of this status and the enforcement of incentive solutions for both voluntary firefighters and other volunteers in the protection and rescue system, as well as for their employers, would be welcome, so that we will not only preserve but even strengthen the motivation of citizens to engage and operate in such voluntary organisations and societies. In Novi Slovenija we advocate a special additional 0.05% tax relief from the income of legal persons taxed on the amount of cash payments intended exclusively for donations to voluntary and professional firefighting companies and other organisations operating in the protection and rescue system. We also propose tax reliefs for employers who employ members of voluntary organisations operating in the protection and rescue system. At the same time, the State must, taking into account the actual needs, guide and support the development of the various voluntary organisations and societies in the field of protection and rescue, as well as their most balanced presence throughout the country. The bill is very welcome, but we will need to find an appropriate and appropriate regulation of the status not only for firefighters, but for all groups operating in the area of stitching and rescue, mountain rescuers, cavemen, divers, guides of service dogs. Their status is also not properly regulated, even though voluntary firefighters operate through societies and do not have paid contributions to health and pension and disability insurance. In the light of the above, in New Slovenia we will support the proposal to supplement the Firearms Act. I'm a fireman myself, and I know very well how hearty they are and they carry their lives in the palm of their hand for others. With a fireman’s greeting: “Help!”
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The position of the Party's Group will be presented by Andrej Šushmelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have yet another proposal for a law that we like in substance. Among other things, the applicants cited a number of qualities that mark firefighters, and we cannot challenge them here, and we fully agree with them. The area in which firefighters are active is a diverse, self-sacrificing concern for the safety of citizens and citizens, from extinguishing and rescue in fires to intervention in natural, car and other accidents. We all appreciate them, but we probably all have little knowledge of what extreme limits firefighters can resort to and what they must expose themselves to in order to protect us when it is most difficult. It is right that their work is properly recognized and their profession is respected and appreciated. The bill seeks to provide voluntary firefighters with certain rights they currently do not have. The applicants note that despite the country's many promises to regulate the status of professional and voluntary firefighters, the situation of the firefighter is still not regulated as the firefighters deserve. That's what he holds and we agree. Among other things, the government has already taken up the Fire Act in its previous reference. With the change planned, it tried to arrange a permanent allowance for firefighters more appropriately and comparable to other uniformed professions. At the same time, the Ministry of Defence was preparing a comprehensive law supplement, which was in line with a number of stakeholders. Unfortunately, the mandate ended before the proposal even came to the National Assembly. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we hope that the Ministry of Defence will continue where it ended before, and that we will soon get the proposals into consideration, and then the changes will be able to get their place in the legislation and really come to life. Let's get back to the previous call of the National Assembly. The Slovenian Democratic Party had already tabled a proposal with the same content, and even though it had successfully passed the first reading, we must not forget that the Government had already called it substantive and nomotechnically too weak. They have indeed perfected it a little, but it is difficult to shake the impression that someone who is so eager and eager to make it possible for firefighters to live a better life and to get what is theirs, would try harder and roll up their sleeves and remove their material and nomological shortcomings. Thus, for example, the applicant has not unified the original concept of operating in the proposal, a voluntary operational firefighter, and thus can still read to cities about an operational firefighter which covers a much broader field and cities to an acquittal operational firefighter. But that's the least of it. Many of the other problematic aspects raised by the Government remained firmly anchored in the bill. In doing so, we can rightly ask ourselves whether the fundamental motive here is indeed the concern for the welfare of firefighters with the amended law, or whether it is simply that the laws are being applied with a view to obtaining political points, and in fact the final round is less important. It is impossible to see that the situation in the field of firefighting really needs improvement. We have also repeatedly stressed in the Alenka Bratušek Party that there is a need to raise the profession at local level and to encourage volunteering even more. That is why we do not list these proposed changes as completely inappropriate but we believe that it is right for the Government to consider them. After all, the regulation of this area is at least what firefighters with their self-sacrifice, their constant willingness and dedication deserve. It is therefore right that the proposal should be prepared in greater depth and should address the broader issue. As the Ministry of Defence has done in the previous mandate, all stakeholders should be included in the drafting process of the bill and the proposal should be aligned with them. We will be happy to support such a comprehensive novel in the Alenka Bratusek Party. For today's bill, however, we can only find that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law, but first the representative of the proposaler, Mr Jan Mahnic, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you, Vice President. It's really amazing what excuses everything has to be heard here so you don't support the marriage. I firmly believe that if Slovenian athletes were looking for such excuses for each of their failures, then Ilka Štuhec and Jan Kranjec today would not win the first places each in their category. And congratulations! As far as your views are concerned, Mr Secretary of State, I can tell you that this is some kind of hypocrisy. I recall the previous term when we tabled a proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has come forward, for the first time in history since this Parliament has adopted laws, student mafias. In short, we have proposed that the money that comes from the concession fee and goes to a certain extent to the Student Organisation of Slovenia be redistributed; that the percentage remains for the Student Organisation, a certain percentage is for scholarships, a certain percentage for student homes and a certain percentage for student clubs of local communities. What was the obvious then, especially a Member who is no longer here today, Mitje Horvata? He said: “Let me know where you got these percentages. On what grounds did you come up with these percentages? Why such a division?« When we made the point, it was not right, the question was: “What did you come up with the number to make it so concrete?” Then let us introduce a law like this – for the first time, it has been adopted, but the government has unfortunately resigned – which we put into the first reading precisely because, on the basis of the debate that appears here, it is possible, both on the one hand and on the other, to submit amendments, and we write only “provide the means of securing operational firefighters” and “provide the means for preventive health checks of operational firefighters”, in particular here that “the status of an operational volunteer firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter with which the employment of firefighters is stimulated by reducing the employer's insurance premiums and having tax exemptions”. In short, there is a broad concept when, on the basis of a second reading discussion, you can specify how much insurance premiums are being reduced and what tax benefits employers have. Now we're not specific enough. So when we come up with certain and specific numbers and put them into law, you ask us where you got these numbers, and these numbers could be different, and when we don't put the numbers in, just because they're obviously different opinions, in this case how much they're allowed premiums and what kind of tax reliefs they're making, we're not very specific. But in this case, I have to give at least a little commendation to the government in view of the position I have read. Rarely does it ever happen that the government makes an effort and at least something substantive is found in the bill, although it is also in here, I think, the word concerning the systematic regulation of this problem. Such a performance as you have had, Mr Bizjak, when you have entered exactly when you know that this is the fruit of a conversation before later adoption – since you are the Secretary of State and have been employed by the Ministry of Defence for more than four years, you will not sell me that you have not been able to prepare any changes to the law in four years. Even when we're talking about a supplement that's supposed to go for professional firefighters. But also with the addition to professional firefighters, as Mr Bevk previously said in the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors, have you come — when? Marca. And it is not true, it is not true that that law was not adopted because of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as Mr Bevk has deceived, but because ours was put in the same day, but before. Our marriage was adopted at first reading, he went to second reading, but we know what happened when the government resigned. All legislative procedures were then terminated. The coalition had a two-thirds majority with Levi, and if you really wanted that bill to be adopted at the time, you would have collected signatures, a law prepared by the Ministry of Defence would have been put to an extraordinary meeting, you could have signed for an extraordinary session immediately and the law would have been adopted. After the government had fallen after the legislative process of all the laws tabled had been completed, the parliamentary signatures could immediately convene a meeting of the committee and then a meeting of Parliament and that law would be adopted. My question, Mr Bizjak, is, and for Mr Bevik later, because he will also apply to the debate why you did not do so. Because you could because you had the whole April and the whole May time. However, this is a matter of fourteen days, a maximum of fourteen days of business to remove it within a few days. Do you also feel that you have not prepared that proposal sufficiently and that you have not submitted it and that you are making a convenient reply to the Slovenian Democratic Party? Desus' position – as Mr Jurša said – is difficult to comment because I will see what the vote will be. But it seems fair to me that if you are [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, then you'll tell me whether you support it or not. I agree with the good part of your point of view, the only thing I can say is that if you vote against it, it would seem really strange to me, given that the law that is the same as we tabled it, is that the correction that goes in a better direction was supported by March. What was the obvious about the fire service back then? That it's too wide a poem and that we should narrow it down. Of course, it all relates to the rules of fire service. We then, unlike now, proposed something else when we said that for "every day of the public fire service" and now writes "operational tasks". This is Article 4 of the Fire Service Rules, which states: “Operative tasks of fire or fire-fighting tasks include fire-fighting and fire-fighting in the event of accidents, environmental and industrial accidents, protection and rescue of persons, property, environment and cultural heritage in the event of natural and other accidents, fire-fighting and other general life-saving tasks, including preventive and operational protection tasks against fire.” What was recorded then? At that time it was written “for every day of the public fire service”, which is defined in Article 61 of this Regulation, which states: “The basic form of cooperation of firefighters’ organisations is the organisation of the public fire service in the municipality. The scope and the manner in which the public service is organised and carried out in the municipality shall be determined by the municipality in accordance with the Firearms Act, the criteria for the organisation and equipment of firefighting units and the municipal plan for protection and rescue. The act on the organisation of the public fire service must set out the fire brigades and their tasks and the operational areas for which the individual unit is responsible. A central fire-fighting unit shall be determined according to the category of fire-extinguishing units. The operation of a public fire service in the municipality, in accordance with the decision of the competent municipal authority or the act organising the public fire service, shall be organised and coordinated by the fire brigade of the municipality.” In short, in this law, as opposed to the previous one, we specify precisely on the basis of the rules on the fire service and refer to Article 4, which clearly speaks of what the tasks of operational firefighting are. Earlier, it was asked what the breakup of Alenka Bratušek’s emissary group would be or what the breakup would be more or less known. Do you have any idea what this session would be like if the opposition parties didn't make proposals for laws, whatever you call them? Now it's December, you call it a Christmas present, if you put it in May or April, it'd probably be a first-may gift or a Easter present, if it were during summer vacations, it would be a holiday present, in short, you can find excuses as much as you want. But what would be the disunity of this session without these laws? I think we'd have finished yesterday. Tell me, how many legal proposals are there by the government or the ruling coalition at this meeting? The case would be closed. Or today, because then on Friday we probably wouldn't start the session on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, we could put all the points under the roof. But perhaps we who bring you on the tray will reject the laws, and then you will save some ad hoc in the last few months before the elections or when it is approximately clear when the elections will be, or in four years or earlier. That's how we saw it in the previous term. And then, in the previous term, because of this very Firearms Act, which we proposed, he went to a second treatment. I recall that the Desus Group made it clear at that time that some solutions seemed acceptable to it, some should be corrected and leave the possibility for this to be rectified in another reading. Well, from then on, one solution or one option has been fixed by us, just on the basis of what it was then, I think, just a colleague of Janja Sluga was saying when she said what this public fire department was all about, to pay for then fire drills, all education, all of it, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was a broad notion. [[Incomprehensible]] That is why we have written only for the operational tasks set out in the Fire Service Regulation. And all those numbers you say are missing — that's just a matter of agreement. However, it was said or sent by the Firefighters Association of Slovenia that on average voluntary firefighters perform operational tasks for around 8 million 830 thousand working hours, meaning that each operational firefighter performs 147 working hours per year for operational tasks in firefighting. This came to us today from the Firehouse Association of Slovenia because we asked them for information. And yet another thing, such a statement on the proposal of the law, in substance, nomotechnically, we have also heard that the problem of providing finance or not being defined – turn to Mr Jewish and contact the services of the National Assembly, why he then placed the law on the agenda of the December session. Because if all of this is true, then such a law should not come into consideration at all, because it does not meet the criteria that are clearly defined, what it must be like and what a proposal the Member Group or Member submits that the matter can be dealt with at all at the meeting. Vice President, right? And you could simply say that what the Government says is true, all that you have pointed out by some representatives of the parliamentary groups is true; or you would have said earlier that because of this and this the law is not even appropriate to be considered at a meeting of the National Assembly. But since the law was stipulated that the agenda had been confirmed, we could have called on Friday when we confirmed the agenda, and we would have said that the law was inappropriate and the item could have been removed from the agenda. But it's not because he's gone through all the criteria that you've obviously discovered or more or less followed the government's view. Mr Bizjak, please tell me, for the first time, when everything you have regulated in the law, which you now blame us for not having been adopted, I have denied it, because you could have adopted that law in three, four, five days after the government has fallen and all the legislative procedures in this Parliament have ended. When can we expect this? And when can we expect arrangements for the status of voluntary fire? I don't know if it was last year, whether it was two years ago, or even this year, when we were in previous contact with the Defence Committee in Sezana, but then they said two or three things that should have been changed in law that would have been very helpful in civil protection, and in particular would have prevented fires in Crassus. Something touched organizations, some cameras or surveillance, and a third matter related to Slovenian railways. And then it was said that this is a thing with a novel if we say that now we want to solve this problem, we can fix it in two, three months. How long has it been since then? And I would understand if it were the Ministry of Finance, but, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Defence. What is the Ministry of Defence responsible for? For the Defence Act, the Fires Act, the Act governing the payment system or professional relationship in the Slovenian Army, the Military Duty Act and the Act adopted, the Act on Critical Infrastructure. You can add, if I've missed one, maybe one or two more, but there is virtually no government ministry in charge of such a narrow area, as far as the laws are concerned. And in four years there was nothing, Mr Bizjak, except for the reckoning with senior Slovenian military officers who were not associated with the Social Democrats. That was on your side and on your side, Minister, and I'm not going into this field right now. But the Firearms Act, which does not require all the innovation, would have the Ministry of Defence with all its machinery, along with the URSZR, which warns of these things. For two years, Mr Booth said: "We are at the end, we are at the end, and we will invest." I don't understand how you can't do it in four years or now tell me how long it will take you to agree on a few articles in this mandate, because there is no need to change the whole Firearms Act, to regulate the status, to give some stimulation to employers, to also manage what you tell us that is now only about employed operative firefighters, but also about students, students, unemployed, all of them. [[…]] What bonuses are to be determined, what benefits are to be fixed and so on? And this is not for employers, as a colleague from Left used to say, where they see this evil capital everywhere. If you look at this, on the one hand, it is really a question of why employers should be encouraged to hire firefighters, because it should be in the interest of every employer in a healthy farm to have as many firefighters as possible in their company, who control a lot of knowledge, not just extinguishing, but also first aid, and so on. Every employer, I believe, is in the best interest. But if we give incentives everywhere, let's give them here, just for those who are already employed, as for those who will. Mr Bizjak, how many months, you will take years in this mandate to settle the matter, so that I know roughly when we must make the law so that you will not apologize to us again, that we have broken your marriage because we have not. Because you could put it in, and you didn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We like to paint with firefighters, especially during the election campaign, even after we have been elected, we promise everything, and then it is so difficult to come up with a tiny solution that would improve the position of volunteer firefighters. Before that we heard a very interesting lecture on the history of voluntary firefighting in some part of Slovenia, probably each of us can tell about our firefighting society. I could talk about it for a long time. I was doing a museum collection myself. And I will start with one practical example, I will commend the municipal committee of the New Slovenia Črenšovci, of course political organisation. We have decided that before one or the other elections we will not have goulash, drink and so on. Since the municipal committee at the local elections achieved a good result four years ago, and now significantly better, the committee received some money under the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and decided on a very good, humane gesture. I believe you'll repeat us, we've decided to fund the acquisition of the AEDs very much. What is AED? Auto-external defibrillator. We got four. We have in no way given less than 500 euros. In order not only to praise this municipal committee of the New Slovenia Črenšovci, I also have to commend the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection and rescue that, for the first time, AED placed or placed on the list of typified fire equipment because firefighters save property and life. Is that right? And that's right. And as far as I know, when the companies gave their roles, the board also co-financed something for the acquisition of AEDs in our voluntary societies. Why is that important? When I watched the map of the AED database of Slovenia in 2015, 2016, I was afraid that you rarely found it in Prekmurje AED; now these, thank God, are quite something. I believe you agree that Premur's hearts are just as important as Ljubljana's. Thus, a practical example of how a political party can also help in a very concrete way to save lives and possessions or voluntary firefighting. We will have to, but this obviously runs very slowly in this house, adapting certain systems to social change or to climate change in the event of fire. Today the firefighter must know more than then that firefighter who established a voluntary fire company in my village in 1924. At the time, houses were broken down and such a fire had to be extinguished. Today we have solar power plants, we have extremely demanding systems, materials and so on. And the fireman must be extremely educated. And this marriage that we now have on the table is really worth reading again. You say he's nomotechnically problematic and so on; then let's fix him in another read. I wouldn't want to get you into a bad mood and remind you of, say, the Audit Law. What government has sent to the National Assembly! At that time, the existing article had 176 articles, and the new articles were 111, and then, in second reading, one in four amendments. I know that some coalition MPs have been embarrassed. In our position, we have said that we support this law. And then let us do something concrete for firefighters, operatives, volunteers, and volunteer firefighters in this country. Not only are we full of mouths, but when something really needs to be done, it practically costs nothing. I only appeal and believe – indeed, at a time like this, we are perhaps a tiny softer heart – to just let this marriage go into another reading and then improve it after a new year. If we're willing, let's do it with ease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Voluntary firefighters do the work that many do not want — either out of fear or out of concern for foreign property. They always fight for theirs. That is why this law is all the more important and necessary. This change is a small step towards improvement. But it's a better step than no step. I am concerned by these coalition opinions when they say that the government will systematically solve the matter, so that it solves the matter more deeply. But I think it kind of reminds me of that Alan Ford line that says, "We don't promise anything and we keep it." Sadly, the government does not want to do anything in this area. Budget poverty, some have said, is the law. I don't know if this is budget poverty because it's about saving people's property and lives when these volunteer firefighters make their own lives and their own health available. The government is closing down, but it is not a problem to give it tens or hundreds of millions for various LGBT organisations, migrant organisations, various peacekeeping institutes and similar matters. And once it burns in these institutions, I could say there'll be a fire in the roof. Who's gonna fire? Those who are there at work, by no means. Migrants – God forbid, where. Are there gonna be some other people jumping around? They won't; except with what little flower claw they can be watered. Employers are not thrilled to see volunteer firefighters run out of work because they have only a problem. It's the law that solves this. And I think it would make sense to use it and to accept it. As I know the functioning of the current coalition, this will not be accepted because it must not be accepted because the opposition has tabled this. And if the opposition has submitted, even if the state collapses, nothing can be taken. “We will then systematically fix the matter.” And how many times has this system been fixed? Not since Cerara's government. And these system repairs are already piled up. If you count them, I think there are at least 74 of these promised system corrections. And of course there will be no corrections, no, because the government doesn't care about certain segments. But I don't know if any of the government coalition has ever been involved in any actual action when they were firefighters. We were also in these actions when it went out, and we also helped to put out and know what it is, and we know how these firefighters risk their lives; especially when we look at that fire on the Highlander, when the pigs were burning when the toxic gases were being created, because some say that there was also the production or processing of narcotics. All of this was inhaled by firefighters. And what did they get out of it? Nothing. This is about one million and a half a month for these 50,000 operational volunteer firefighters. These are the ones who are always ready to jump in, wake him up in the middle of the night, get up and go help others. Who are you helping, dear coalition partners? Except for his pockets, no one.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is Ferenc Horvát.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I personally believe that the initiative for this legislation is certainly appropriate and welcome. However, I am also pleased with the Secretary of State's response, if this legislation is not adopted today, then the Government has already prepared another text. I am pleased with this aspect, because when I spoke to the firefighters before this meeting, they somehow assured me that they only wanted one thing, namely their status being settled. Believe me, they don't care if this law is proposed by the coalition, the opposition, me or anyone else, who's third. They don't care, they want these things to be completely settled, because when I asked them for their opinion or position, they all assured me that they had been dragging on too long. As a kind of neutral member of the National Assembly in terms of political definition, I am really asking the National Assembly to come together in this area and find solutions that are appropriate and that will actually benefit firefighters. All those who spoke before me today, regardless of their political and party definition, highlighted the important role of voluntary firefighting. I think that these people who are actually 24 hours available and in this world today, knowing that volunteer work is getting smaller, should be thanked for all the effort and work they are doing. But I think it would make sense to amend the Society Act when amending the legislation, because the Society Act in its current form is also kind of beating voluntary firefighting companies, at least that's what they told me in organizing the various events they have. I think it would also make sense to think about changing this law too. But certainly, the most important thing to them is that this status is settled. I am almost certain that it would be possible to adopt some kind of solution or law that would somehow satisfy employers and also those who engage in voluntary firefighting because some of these societies have a tradition for over a century. And if we look at it, unfortunately in recent years there have been more and more interventions throughout Slovenia, because we needed firefighters because of weather conditions, fires and other matters. And I fear that we will be forced to count on their assistance many more times in the future, so I ask on behalf of the firefighters that this issue, their status, be settled as soon as possible in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. It was very nice to hear all the colleagues who remembered Ilko Štuhec and Jana Kranjec today and congratulated them. These are the congratulations I'm joining. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about firefighters, especially voluntary firefighters, what is part of Slovenian cultural tradition, which Slovenia is rich, which is an integral part of already Slovenian culture. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, at least three of them are the Gorenjeks, who are worth mentioning, are Domen Pavlič, Lucia Grubar and Patrick Štefelin. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the three voluntary firefighters who have achieved the highest success this year, the first and second places in the European and world championships in the Firefighter Combat Challenge, according to the most difficult test of firefighters. This proves not only that voluntary firefighters carry out a noble mission in Slovenia, in which they also expose their health and lives. Regarding health, we have seen in the case of the story in Vrhnika, where regret over negligence or even worse, did not tell what was burning there; and some, if not public secret, ended up on Golnik with severe lung problems. And on the other hand, it's about their lives. Just in the Churches of Gorenjska, in my constituency, there was a tragic event a few years ago, when they intervened, the boy was selflessly helping because it was a flooded basement, there was an electric shock and death. It is a matter of giving all recognition to firefighters and firefighters, in particular to volunteer firefighters, and showing the deepest respect for everything they do for us, for Slovenia and for all their achievements, because, once again, the examples of Domna Pavlič, Lucija Grubar and Patrick Štefelin's victories even at the world level prove that they are truly highly qualified and extremely quality people. The law, as you have rightly found before us today, has been proposed at least twice in the previous term, once in the form of part of the intervention law, and twice in particular. And in the second attempt it was then adopted in the first reading, only a small nomotechnical change is in the text that is before us today. Why is he really going? It is not only in words, but also in actions, ladies and gentlemen, to show respect for voluntary firefighting, to their noble mission, once again to the inseparable part of Slovenian identity, Slovenian cultural tradition; and to allow them to breathe more easily. It's not about some big money he's operating with. I would only remind you that 123 million for migrants, for foreigners, was no problem in this House. But here it is, according to some estimates, about a million and a half. Accurately, it is difficult to calculate, since it should be known which benefits would be granted to entrepreneurs. This is because they are volunteer firefighters, problems with their employers, and of course they would like to be in the workplace. When there's a call for help, the firefighters respond to it and that's why there's trouble. It would therefore help them by allowing them additional tax relief and reducing insurance premiums. It is also the remainder of what would be the case with operational firefighters – a minimum gesture and a very large recognition. And as a result, it is so sadder that the first time we proposed it, it was said that it was a wrong marriage. Say it. We have proposed in the Fires Act, it was said - you have far too wide a flag. Now it's nomotechnically repaired and a bit narrow. And what was said here today? Yeah, he's too tight now. Stop fooling around, stop making fun of the fireman. When budgets are adopted in this National Assembly, or some laws such as the last one, it is always found for those NGOs based on the LBTQP ideology, as it were, on Marxist culture. There is no problem in providing additional millions of funds; but when it comes to firefighters, those who enrich Slovenia, enrich their culture, enrich on the most noble of human wages, and for those who never have any money. Then you make excuses — because of your marriage, no marriage was possible. Come on, was he in treatment from day one to this day?Oh, my God! But where did you sleep in the meantime like a northern bear, and then nothing happened?Oh, my God! It is said to be pathetic, insulting, obscene excuses that you can, in your own words, stick to a hat. What would be worth doing is to adopt this law as soon as possible. If there's anything else that needs to be changed, it'll be added. And that the confession they deserve to be given to the firefighters also by action, not only in words, in fact, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! This law complements the status of a firefighter so that the status of an operational volunteer firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter. As a result of the operating firefighters, the costs of employers shall be reimbursed by the municipality or their national authority. Firefighting is highly intertwined in Slovenia and is very necessary. They are probably the most widespread society of both voluntary and operational members, and they are always available to us, but not so much for fires or the cleaning of blocked chimneys, more and more for natural disasters and captures. In their work they risk their lives, they're in action when we sleep peacefully. As has been pointed out many times, firefighting companies are the pillars of connections in smaller towns, villages. They've been very helpful with the recent windshield and the icicle. What is now being proposed is merely a trifle of ratings for people who always help us. They're already doing all the volunteer work, they're happy when they save lives on the road, they put out a house, an industrial building. I think that this law should be supported, regardless of the political rainbow in Parliament, in order to support it now in the first reading and perhaps further complement it in the second reading. Or perhaps a little sarcasm, the coalition does not want to support laws that are financially valued at several million; perhaps they would support the proposal if it were worth at least 300 million as it was before you. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you very much. It was pathetic and insulting to hear two words spoken by a colleague earlier. It's pathetic and insulting for firefighters that we have on our tables today. Today, at least three of you have declared yourselves firefighters here, one of our members, and I believe that if you actually read what we have on the table, and each of you asked what good it would do you, everyone could answer just one thing — nothing. Nothing. And that's why it's pathetic and insulting because here you're saying that this proposal regulates the status of a firefighter and gives them some rights that they should be entitled to. The truth is that only the relationship between the worker and the employer, between the firefighter and the employer, if any, is governed here. But if he doesn't have one, either he's a student, or he's already retired, because some of them are, but I don't know. And it's also pathetic and insulting that we've considered all this once before, that we had a very detailed debate, very in-depth. I was the one who went through the article at the time, and I said, "What's the matter?" I don't know. I'd go to him today. I think it's a little silly. And what was said at the time, which is the basis of this, is that you double-cross some things, and you haven't even fixed it. Now there was a speech that you fixed two words. Two words in one article at the end, just and only as far as supplementary pension insurance is concerned, everything else is the same. And everything else is empty. And there's nothing, no content. And I think it's funny that I read the financial implications in the assessment, we don't know exactly how much they are; but it's certainly guaranteed on that item. That's ridiculous. We don't know what it is, but it is. But when we talk about ZIPRS and the new fund for NGOs, including voluntary firefighters, you are against it. They'd give them $5.6 million on an annual basis, but you're against it. By the way, I am glad, Comrade Pojbič, that you did not misuse the borrowed fire uniform for promotion in this law today, as you did last when we discussed it. As far as comparison is concerned, here you are now referring to Austria, Croatia and Italy, as you last did, and with all three you are talking only about professional firefighters. And today we're talking about volunteers. In fact, services have not only overlooked the fact that there are no financial effects, but there is also no comparative representation in fact. And I wonder why the proposal came to this. Let's do it one more time. The status of an operational volunteer firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter, which stimulates the employment of firefighters by reducing premiums and tax breaks for the employer. Who is the operative firefighter, we have already told you, in March we said that this is a member of a voluntary firefighter society between the 18th and 63th years who has received training or education for an operational firefighter. But voluntary firefighters have different statuses, some are employees, others are self-employed, some are students, some are retired because they were police officers and miners, have benefited years and are retired at the age of 50. What about him? You don't bring anything to those. You don't really bring anything to your employees either, but you bring it to their employers. Firefighter status in the first place is not only a relationship with his employer, but it is essential more. Significantly more. And if I ask the four of you what this is right now, I'm sure I won't get a unique answer. But you didn't even ask them. And I asked about the Fireman's Union of Slovenia, if you asked them anything about what they'd have in here; but you didn't. Just like you didn't last time. Last time they didn't even know that you were putting in a law quasi to regulate their rights. Let us not know what premiums we are talking about, that we do not know what tax reliefs we are talking about, because different employers are liable to different taxes and so on. This provision is completely empty and I do not understand how you can actually write such a thing. If you have not already asked firefighters, at least employers should be asked. Employers are very different, too. And when we talk about craftsmen or small entrepreneurs who have employed operational firefighters who actually go to interventions, there are 100 per year in some voluntary firefighting companies. Believe me, any tax relief to such an employer does not help when he has to carry out an order by a certain date and needs this employee in his place of employment, because otherwise he will not execute this order and will lose his job; not only that but also for the future. And if you think employers are going to agree to that kind of thing, you're wrong because I talked to them. And it really doesn't help him. However, voluntary fire companies, I agree, are different; we can talk about averages, some of the statistics that the applicant has been talking about today, how much on the average of operating hours every volunteer firefighter does. But on average, it's something completely different than the actual situation. And within our congregation, they are made by one hundred a year and the other only four. And the problem is the one that does it a hundred times a year. And it has to be made clear that this is a problem. In my previous mandate, when we discussed this, I also talked about the postmen, that there are three mailmen in one of the fire brigades who are volunteer operatives. Do you think the postman will leave it all on the spot during work and go to the intervention? There's no way of equating it that way. Article 2; funds shall be provided for the insurance of operational firefighters. Again, which insurance we don't know, you didn't say. Funds are provided for preventive health checks of operational firefighters. You take all of this to the State, you correct Article 8, but what the State is obliged to do, and what the congregation is obliged to do, is contained in these two articles, in Articles 6 and 8. You only fix the 8th and endure what the congregation is already doing at 8. However, you do not correct Article 6, so that the congregation does not now need to do so, we now have a double arrangement. And next thing you know, the pre-emptive medical examinations were handled by the previous government. The Regulation on Preventive Health Checks was amended in April this year and provided clear guidance on how preventive medical examinations are carried out for operational firefighters, so that they can be carried out by a personal doctor to reduce red tape, to reduce the time spent by a voluntary firefighter for these checks, and in particular to reduce the price to be paid for this. And at some point this confirmed it for free, sometimes for 10 or 20 euros, so this matter is settled. Next, the State will provide voluntary operational firefighters with financing of additional health insurance and, for each day, with operational tasks – this is what you have fixed – with additional pension insurance. Again, I ask you how this will be done. Who's going to record this? Who's gonna take care of the data? Who's going to take them to the employer? Will the employer then not pay for this work and the state will cover it? How did you imagine that? Thousands of 100 voluntary fire companies are in Slovenia. Will each of these presidents or commanders now lead these statistics, how will they count on which criteria? For whom do I, for whom do I not? How will he communicate them? Who's he gonna coordinate with? I don't know, you're talking about everything else in the debate today, just not the content of these three articles. There was a talk about everything else today. Why? Because there's really nothing to talk about, and that's clear. It's too bad I'm trying, but I'm listening because I'm sure the answers to what I'm asking right now aren't going to get because I didn't get them the last time. It has already been exposed today, and here in the SMC of course we agree, the status quo – yes. What's the status? What's it all about? In what way? But the status so that firefighters, not employers, not municipalities, not states, not anyone else, but firefighters, plus other security and rescue forces, as has been exposed to – cavemen, divers, rescue dogs guides, mountain rescuers. For them, too, it is necessary to arrange for them, because it is the same organization with the same purpose that they are all doing on the basis of some kind of volunteering; and then it is right and just to settle for them. Again, you came with this in the previous term with some blue light, which, of course, we also did not support; but neither of any of the other things would the voluntary firefighters actually have anything. That's what they said when we asked them, so don't try to make sure now that someone doesn't know where they support it, because that's not true. What we have regulated in the previous term, however, are the deadlines for technical checks for vehicles carrying children by firefighters, as this has been pointed out by the Slovenian Association of Firefighters to represent some obstacle to them, some red tape. Those hands were presented back from 6 months to 12 months, so this matter is settled. The amendment of the Regulation signed by the Minister of Health has also facilitated the implementation of preventive medical examinations for firefighters. But both of these initiatives came from firefighters, and they got what they wanted. And you didn't ask them anything here. And let's say, come on! You then made this law, this proposal, four hours – this is seen by the EPA number – four hours before it came to the National Assembly by government law; the government law, which was written on the basis of an agreement with professional firefighters, on the basis of a sentence agreement regulating their permanent allowance, and you deliberately blocked that law, which would bring something good to professional firefighters — with this blank. And a colleague mentioned Kemis today. I didn't mean to, but let's talk about why it came to Kemis. Because Minister Hojs saw these things as an excessive bureaucratic and administrative obstacle at the time of the Janshea government, and he wrote in explanation then to amend the law even to hinder the economic initiative. This was written in the explanatory notes. What was the fundamental effect of this law? Yes, what was then problematic and then pointed out by the Municipality of Ljubljana in the debate when the law was changing, and two other members of the National Assembly also warned: lifting the agreement on protection against fire to construction and other useful permits and transferring this same responsibility to an investor. At the time, the municipality of Ljubljana pointed out that these matters should be examined by firefighters because they are professionally qualified to do so and can assess whether the cases are properly regulated or not. But no. You have changed this because it was an unnecessary administrative obstacle, a bureaucracy that hinders an economic initiative. And that's why it actually came to Kemis. I don't know what to tell you. You declare yourselves – yes, everywhere and everywhere. At all times; with the abuse of uniforms, I don't know what else. You're talking about how you support firefighters, or you're shutting down 5 million or 6 million at an annual level, as much as it could be for NGOs. Even for firefighters. You object to that. Then we talk about some articles that you really don't even know how to explain, and you can't give any answers when we ask you what that means. And some blue light that's super nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, there has been a huge lie in this House today. A first-class lie that doesn't have a place in the National Assembly. Look, I'll show you this plate. Those of you who are familiar with firefighting, I ask the cameras to take a look at this and find Mrs. Slug is a first-class liar! Who deceives Slovenian people, lies that I borrowed a fireman's uniform. Through this tablet, it's clear to everyone who knows what fire fighting means. I'm a volunteer firefighter for the Lower Kungota Company. And I'm proud to wear a fireman's uniform, and that's why I don't let anyone insult me like that. He insults the fireman's uniform that I wear, and he insults the Voluntary Fire Company of the Lower Kungota and the Fire Department of the Slovenian Mountains. Mrs Slug – not only do I request a public apology because you have lied publicly, I will also, of course, take appropriate action, as it is possible, formally legal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič, you know – from the cameras, the footage shows that you were wearing a fire uniform at the time. In accordance with the rules of the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, this is called the abuse of a fireman's uniform. The footage also shows that you didn't have any marks on that uniform. The plates you're saying you didn't have up there. And yes, abuse. So I'm not a liar, and in no way am I going to apologize to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u115	It's no longer procedural, but you can't have a replica, sir. [[…]] Here you go, Mr. Pojbich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u116	Mr Vice President, once again. What kind of marking did I wear on a uniform is another question. It is important that I was then a volunteer firefighter of the Lower Kungota Voluntary Fire Company and that my uniform is mine and I wear it and I am proud of it and no one in the National Assembly is allowed to abuse his position, his parliamentary seat in order to lie in front of the entire Slovenian public. This, however, is unacceptable and extremely inappropriate for any other Member or Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u117	Mr. Pojbič, what kind of procedural proposal do you have? I did not understand from this that there was something about the procedure. Thank you very much. Jean-Mahnič, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you, Vice President. One question. Does anyone know what number 4375 means? 4375 is the number of votes received by Ambassador Janja Slug at the early parliamentary elections in 2014. And one more question. Does anyone know what number 1294 means? 1294 is the number of votes received by Ambassador Janja Slug at the early parliamentary elections in 2018. Even as a result of such discussions, ladies and gentlemen, you can have more than 3,000 votes in four years. Mrs Janja Sluga, once again, to your statements about how we referred to the Fire Action Act proposed by the government coalition, because we tabled a proposal four hours before the Government made it – we probably agreed with the Government, we asked her when she would submit. Why didn't you just as soon as our marriage fell or when the government fell and the legislative procedure ended up as the first to be signed, which apparently became the most familiar firefighter in the National Assembly and is the most bitten firefighter and the most committed to them, put in law together with coalition MPs? In five days, we would conclude the matter — an extraordinary session, and that is it! Believe me, we wouldn't be boycotting that, just like we're that pierre of yours law about the Celian Cauldron. By the way, when will he be filed? Will you be waiting for the next election? But if four years pass and again minus a good 3,000 votes – thank God you can't go to the vote – but surely you won't be enough to come back to Parliament. I told any Member of the previous term that his next term would no longer be in Parliament, he is not. You were lucky. And Vinko Gorenak, who is not even home from Celje, got – how much? - 2,000 votes more than you! I mean, disaster really, that's what your constituents think of you. No pear law about the Celebratory Cauldron will save you from this mandate. One more thing, Mrs. Slug. We have explained all the things that we have proposed in the law, but I suggest that, even if you are a coalition member, if something bothers you, if you have any suggestions, how to improve things, put in a law, do not have to wait for the government, you can put in your parliamentary group. And I invite you to come here now with the law on the Celine, not two months before the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Members and Members of Parliament would like us to stick to the content of the point and not turn the debate into another matter. Mr Jani Ivanuša has the word to prepare me to apologize. Beg your pardon, Janja, the replica. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u120	Mr President, we cannot stick to the content of the point, because there is really no content. So that the proposer really has nothing to discuss, this is also evident in what he has just said. That's why we're talking about Cel and about me and my number of votes, and so on, because we don't really have anything to talk about here. I told you, but you didn't listen because you weren't in the hall what we did in the previous term for firefighters without having to file a law. These were the things that firefighters had warned about since your government that they needed to be regulated, and we arranged them, and no law had to be passed. And even for Celje, I don't have to file a law anymore. Why? Because now another minister who knows exactly what needs to be done and what the state is obliged to do, and this decree, which should be signed by the former Minister, will now be signed by him, without my having to deal with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. You have the floor to propose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you. As for the fact that I wasn't in the hall, I listened to what the MP said, and I decided that I had to come in and say what I thought about her words. But if she doesn't have this device in her office so she can listen from the office, I think the internal number 49 is the technical service, and they're gonna bring you this thing. It is well known that there is no content. Then why did you sign up for the debate? If there's no content, then why do you sign up for the debate? You sign up for the debate if you want to discuss some things in a substantive way. And one more thing, third time. And now you, Mr Vice President, are being criticized, because as a coalition, you obviously did not stop. Why did you not stop this procedure of this law if, as Mrs Slug claims, it is not appropriate to deal with it if it is so substantively and nomologically incomplete? At the time when it was listed and the agenda item was confirmed, the criteria shall be met. But it's nice for a magnetogram that the minister will handle it. The former minister was supposed to arrange it, and the former minister was supposed to arrange it. I wonder when the marriage will be on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Mahnic. Reploco has Mrs. Janja Sluga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u124	Yes, I do, because I'd like to warn my colleague Mahnich again. If he listened so carefully to what I was saying in the office, he must have taken a good look at all my questions. And now I'm waiting for those answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Proposer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u126	Comrade Han, you won't have to go out, I have 10 minutes left, she's 5, so somebody's gonna run out of time soon. Look, Mrs. Slug. If our fellow Members have not been clear enough about what we intend to do with the law and why we have submitted such a law as we did, why and how we respond to these findings in the opinion of the Government, then not my 10 or your 5 minutes will not help us to settle here and that we will come together because we will not come. You know, this is the case, and Mr Bizjak will probably agree. When the Minister receives – or the Secretary of State, the College – this is likely to be considered at the College – a law that comes, the Minister may say two things: either one or the other. Write down the opinion that the law is fine, but that some adjustments are needed in other readings. Or: write an opinion that the Government does not support the proposal for further consideration. Isn't that right? That's right, isn't it? And as a rule, if the opposition law comes, that's the other option. I really want to know what would happen to me if, on the basis of these readings, I were to be exactly written in terms of these preventive medical proposals, I was even more distracted if I wrote the amount of the premium, which are those tax reliefs – again this law comes to the minister and tells his job, and now write down that he is not good, make something up, because he is opposition, we are preparing something of ours, he cannot go through. To be one way or another. They also teach students at the FDV in one class that you have to write both a program for a right party and a program for the left party, you have to be versatile, you have to write a program for it and for it. Just like the experts you have here at the Ministry, they are such experts that they can write both a negative opinion and a binding opinion for the same law. The question is only, the logo of which party is on this paper and what is the status of that party, whether it is opposition, whether it is coalition or supercoal.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša has the floor to prepare Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u128	A nice welcome once again on my behalf, Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, and everyone else is present! Besides, I've forgotten almost everything, there were so many of these replicas, or I'll be brief. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I believe you were there yourself. What I was going to say was that it actually went out here already. Mainly, this law that we have before us – I must agree with the proposaler – that if it were not for further consideration, then I would not even put it on the agenda. That's the first one. We're talking about this extra health insurance. Fifty thousand of these operatives are essentially available 24 hours a day. That's what we're talking about. We have other firefighters, but in fact, thank God they're not even in charge if there's no call for help. Here is a calculation of about a million and a half euros a month – I am talking about additional health insurance. The other part, the pension security part, which relates to the official absence or the compensation, cannot be calculated simply because we do not know what kind of disaster lies ahead, whether something will come or not. Nature changes, even the operation of firefighters changes. There could be nothing in a year, and then this part could go away. There's a lot to talk about here. I'm going to remind you of one fire we had last year in Ormož, a very strong fire, seven apartments burned down, over 20 people were without a place to stay overnight. It was an emergency back then. It was over minus 20 degrees. And those firefighters who put out that fire had a big problem with fire and frostbite. But these were all basically our operatives, and all they got was a warm meal and warm tea, and there was no other. And the frostbite was left behind. We are talking about these problems that can arise. I must stress this, too, that this great fire in Ormož has brought great solidarity to the people. That was an extraordinary, extraordinary solidarity to help these people through the night. But I will, even though this is not a topic, – an example of good practice. We opened the first firefighter training centre in Ormož in May 2017 of the 17 planned in Slovenia. It is said that there are also some good things that the state supports, I cannot say that everything is bad, far from it, and that young people and everyone else can practice in this training area. But it is true that this is in the area of the former sugar factory, the one that has been closed down by politics. At least there was an investment of 600,000 euros, as far as I know. I find Desus' position very interesting, presented by Mr Jurša, that they will decide in the end. That's a long way from being so bad at marriage. At SMC, it is said that there is a lot of confusion, although I would recommend that then the law be allowed to go forward, as it can be processed by all, such as the coalition so the opposition. Although I no longer believe in this, because I have heard so many systemic proposals now in these few months - or systemic solutions - that will come, so I do not believe that this will be possible in four years. I would suggest that this authority remain in power for at least eight years to resolve these systemic solutions. But with Levic, I'm back with Mr. Korazzi, and he's gone again when he's given his position. It's very embarrassing for me. I don't like to talk about people who aren't here, but I'll say it anyway. I told him not to go to Haloza for two months before, but now I'm going to tell him not to go to Haloza at all, because there are two farmers waiting for him, a gardener, and now two firefighters are waiting for him, so it's better that he's gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word has Bojan Podkoršek, to prepare Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the Fires Act, of course, if firefighters and firefighters in the Republic of Slovenia listen to us, they probably have concerns for all of us. Since I am a second Member, in the previous term, as my predecessor said, there have been many systemic solutions. I listened very carefully to a fellow Member from the previous term of office of the largest coalition party, and this party has occupied all the seats where the parties are now in the previous term with 36 Members and Members. Now this group is much smaller. It is also likely that with these systemic solutions, which did not produce results, those who go to the polls felt that there was less to be done in the field of firefighting. I, who is in the party that proposes this amendment of the law, will not claim and never claim by any law that the law is so good that everyone should applaud. So you in this national assembly, as well as those who are touched by this law – of course in this case the firefighters. I think there's still a lot of chance. If we had a slightly different relationship with each other in this area, in this proposal for a law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, there are still many things to add, to add – the proposaler Mahnic said earlier why they did not go to some point in this law in detail. I think that this could also be agreed with by the Secretary of State, who has been dealing with these firefighters for quite some time. In short, the sad debate today, especially from my right, is wavering with this proposal of the law that all this is unnecessary, that it is pointless, that it is imperfect, that in short it does not enjoy so much written down that it could be on the benches of the National Assembly – I don't think it is true. But there is some procedure before a bill comes to the National Assembly that every marriage cannot come from without knowing where, from the balcony or through the door. So, colleagues and colleagues, many times firefighters, I think in most cases when the caller calls, they go into accidents that happen, that don't even know where they're going. In most cases. That it is some great responsibility and belonging to all those who do it every day. I think it is right, regardless of whether you have doubts that not all the points are correctly defined, that we behave differently to this law, of course, mainly to the welfare of firefighters and firefighters in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, all employers would certainly like to have eight hours or as long as he is employed, this firefighter in his company or in his workplace. I think it would be best if everyone could always be at work, even for all of us. Because it wouldn't have been an accident then. However, data are of course high, how many interventions per year are in the Republic of Slovenia – we have heard that there are more than 12,000 – how many of these hours are needed for these accidents. In short, what I'm trying to say is, let's at least find a common point with firefighters, no matter how much we all disagree, to bring to life a single law that is important to employers, especially firefighters and firefighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare Carla Urh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. These are boys and girls, men and women who, at the time of the alarm, regardless of the hour of the day, from bed, from behind the table, from family hugs, from study or from a job free of charge, rush the person to help. These are not the words of Anya Bah Žibert, but this is the entry in an article in one of the daily newspapers when it comes to the status and order of the area, as far as volunteer firefighters are concerned. This article is very interesting, especially because the most important words are those who are affected by problems. They're volunteer firefighters. One of them said, since I've been an active firefighter, and that's what I've been doing for 20 years and the last period I've been in management, it's about regulating the status of operative firefighters, and nothing happens. Nothing happens! Earlier, we had listened to what this law we are considering today was not meant to have. I believe there are some shortcomings in it. Finally, the Slovenian Democratic Party is acting in opposition and cannot compare the apparatus with that of the government. Things can be worked out, looked at, and improved in the next reading. However, I do not agree – at the same time, it is turned upside down that someone is talking about when he had four years to draft a law in his previous term and he did not do so. Now the hours of the Slovenian Democratic Party count, when we – four hours earlier against the current term – not because of us, because of the resignation of their Prime Minister – have passed this law. I seriously wonder why it wasn't at the first meeting of the National Assembly of this marriage. In this term. Why are you now watering the shit and all the dissatisfaction over yourself and your work after the Slovenian Democratic Party? Indeed, this law could already be dealt with, it could already be adopted, and volunteers operating under fire could already do a good job. It's not like that. Today the firefighters say, look, we are being helped by the municipality, we are being assisted by various benefactors with various contributions – indeed, a colleague from Nova Slovenije said before how much they give. I do not mean to praise the Slovenian Democratic Parties here, but we have a lot of municipal committees, and many of these help in the local field also to volunteer firefighters. But let's leave it, it's negligible, it's negligible in what they need. Before Christmas-new holidays – at least in our environment, it is customary for firefighters to knock on doors and ask for any contribution. But look, this contribution isn't meant for them. It is not designed to regulate their status, but it is designed to modernise equipment, to purchase an additional vehicle or something else they need. In the summer, springtime there are ordinary firemen, and these are also intended for the same things; they are said to be their work. But they never expose their problem when they knock on the door; that they have virtually nothing arranged, that they do a hundred and a hundred hours — not some work, everyday work, but dangerous work. Their lives have been exposed, and they have virtually nothing to do with it. Not to compare volunteer firefighters or volunteers in another area, for this is also true of their personal lives. What I agree with the predecessor is that a lot of volunteer firefighters also talk about having problems when they get an alarm and they are in the workplace, and they have a very bad feeling whether they can leave the job, whether it's okay or whether the employer will be somewhat dissatisfied, but still leave. But he's gone! Therefore, Your Honor, this and everything else must be arranged. Let's show them their validity. Not by reading in your views about when the first fire company was established in a congregation, then the relationship, after the first car was purchased. Look, these are ridiculous views. We're not talking about this today! Today we are talking about how to enable them and give them what is important and what they are worth and what is not arranged. But you say the relationship most in the coalition yourself. In the previous term, the SD Minister covered this area – these Members are not discussing today. The secretary, who had already served in that mandate, is today once again the secretary, has announced five minutes for the debate. Five minutes, Your Honor! I think so! Are we kidding? But you're all going to talk about how important firefighters are, how much we owe them and what else we're going to do. I don't believe it! I just don't believe it after four years. And, as has been said, it could have been settled; the coalition had every opportunity to do so in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is Karl Urh. Get Robert Polnar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u134	Your Honor! I come from a family that has a long tradition of firefighters, which are supporters, we are supporters, they were also active, like my grandfather, my father. All, uncles, son, are active in the field of firefighting — firefighters of the Voluntary Fire Company Kamniška Bistrica. Like many other firefighters, we face various problems, but I hope they do not listen to us at this point when we talk too much and do too little. Solidarity, volunteering — these are two words that may have become a little lost. I hope we are all aware that we all want to help our firefighters in the best way — like you and us all. But not over all the obstacles just to the point, just now, but with some deliberate action. I would like to see that all firefighters who rescue us in storms, traffic accidents, fires, windshields, icicles, and I don't know what they can list – eventually also rescue cats from trees and so on – do noble work and expose their lives to all of us. Solidarity, voluntary. 150 years is the tradition of our firefighting, as we have heard, and it already has, we will say, the highest possible peak of this solidarity and assistance. World tables include our firefighters to the very top. They've got some belongings. I've been warned in the field, they have problems, they don't have enough money for clothes, they don't have enough money for new vehicles, but they know it's their turn. That there'd be money for them once. Personally, I am glad that more and more young people are involved among firefighters. They don't think, but we'll get the money, but they know they come to practice, compete, and try to improve their skills to help people move on. That is why it is very important that we adopt what kind of law the Members will adopt. I will not support this law, but I will advocate a full recast of the Firearms Act, which will include the contents that are part of the proposal of the Marjan Sarca Group. At the same time, I would take advantage of the opportunity, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Slovenians and Slovenians! We are in the pre-festive days and if you have not decided where to allocate a portion of the income for a donation of 0.5 per cent, please fill in the form Purpose of the income for donations – you will find this form on the Internet, on the FURS pages. Fill it out and give 0.5 percent for firefighters. Believe it or not – around €5 million was undistributed last year. We could get them from the fire department. So immediately try to see yourself by the end of the year, fill in these forms and send them to FURS. You can choose a fire company — voluntarily, your place — from a neighboring village. This will help to make it easier for firefighters to buy clothes that will protect themselves when they rescue you, or me, or anyone; they will protect their lives when they expose them to others. Let me conclude: let us not forget solidarity and all of this, I will say, the voluntary hours that our firefighters devote to us. And a fireman's greeting: Help!
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with the Deputy Ambassador, Mrs Urh, as far as volunteering is concerned. I can tell you with this very proposal that there is no way that volunteering is being broken down. Volunteering needs to be supported and volunteering can be stopped when you are paid for the service. None of the firefighters and firefighters would receive a euro in their wallets after this proposal. I am also joining your calls for income donation, and at the same time let me upgrade this a little bit more, colleagues and colleagues. I know you're all localpatriots, at least you're supposed to be, in Gorenje village right now we're building a firehouse, so please, PGDGV 1919 and donate one euro for our fire company. Well, please, not from the office phones, but from a private phone number. But the lady said we're talking less, we're doing more. I agree. Too bad you didn't tell your party's president before the Siel interview, and before we interviewed Mr Bobovnik, because there we heard a lot about what was already delayed, what was currently going on and what was going to be done, but we didn't hear any operational plans or hear any commitments about when this was going to be done. Now we know why the LMSH was the one that had the least sense of it, if we call it a coalition contract to specify the dates by which something will be done. If I'm not mistaken, the President of the Government is a firefighter, or he was. But we did not write this proposal overnight, but this is a proposal, as we have already said, which was already adopted in the previous term, but did not go forward because the government had failed before and the legislative process had ended. But don't ruin any solidarity, don't break any volunteerism, we only give minimum, and that's the thing that firefighters and firefighters will have at least something covered instead of paying for it themselves. It's not about anything else. We will not pay them all the hours we have spent because I agree with this, but in this way it would be the end of humanitarianism and volunteering.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Reploco has a Member of Parliament, Carla Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u138	Procedural. My colleague would only warn me that I am the Member of the National Assembly, Karl Urh, List of Marjan Sarc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u139	Mr President, it is clear that a Member who comes to Parliament for a time when someone is acting in government is an alternate Member. So I don't know what's wrong with that term.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u140	Mr. Polnar has the floor to prepare Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u141	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The important thing is that the account eventually comes out, and the emotion is good to calm down. Six cases are regulated by the proposed Act on the Complementation of the Fires Act; one relates to firefighters and five apply to voluntary firefighters. I would like in particular to say a few things about voluntary firefighting, and I assess that all six matters proposed by the applicant are important and necessary. What, then, is that basic mission carried out by voluntary firefighters? This is in particular the provision of conditions for the performance of the public fire service's tasks, and in this context two fundamental considerations are crucial. The first basic observation is the organisation of fire brigades, which must be designed to enable them to remain operational. The second main objective is the training of fire personnel, which is a priority and in particular a permanent task. The main objective of all types of training is to ensure the appropriate expertise of firefighters and operational management staff to carry out tasks, in particular in the event of various types of fires, weather events and accidents. The fire organisation of Slovenia is based on voluntary membership. Volunteering is enhanced by a high level of belonging to their society, by commitment to the fire and by taking responsibility for various types of intervention. During the two regional assignments in the congregation of Šentjur, I had the opportunity to learn about firefighting and voluntary firefighting from within. I do not know what it looks like, for example, when 85 firefighters in one day remove within 14 hours a few hundred trees from municipal roads. But I also know that firefighters are known from experience that no progress can be made easily. On important issues, they are often faced with hard truths and difficult choices. Many times, their condition seems to be unsustainable. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are changing things with our will, with our ability and with our perseverance. Persistence is the quality of those who know what they want. And only those who persist can count on him to succeed in any way. Therefore, I think that the debate on today's law on the amendments to the Firearms Act must take into account, above all, the persistence. Mr President, I will support such a law as it is designed. It is true that the Government has expressed a rather negative opinion on the whole matter and has based it on one word that I have at the top of my head and I do not intend to listen to it much anymore, because the most abused word of the last three months is in the National Assembly. It's a word of systemicity. All things in this country, no social sphere, at least at the moment, show that it does not need to be systematically regulated. In other words, everything that happened before this government’s appearance was unsettled and unsettled. It is true that I am a coalition Member, but such an attitude, a somewhat Messianic position, the position of the correcter of the human race has, at least historically proven, always failed. And I don't agree with that attitude and I can't identify with it either. However, I also have a proposal for a proposal for a proposal, Commissioner. I come from what happened in the National Assembly on 14 December this year, when we also passed a law on the amendments to the Construction Law. There, two basic assumptions were discussed: the use of common sense and the need for de-de-barcation of Slovenian legislation. You have tabled a proposal for Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I voted in favour of your proposal because I have assessed that your argument is correct. What surprised me was the outcome of the vote when I found out that only 15 of the 25 members and members of the Slovenian Democratic Party were present at the vote. 10 out of 25, two-fifths, 40 percent of the entire parliamentary group did not come to vote for their own law! I supported it. I tell you, when I looked at the results of the vote and the statement of the presence of individual Members and Members, I felt a little silly. Therefore, I ask you, Sir, to ensure that you are yourself able to provide sufficient votes in your own parliamentary group so that this bill, as you have proposed, will have at least a minimum chance of being voted on today. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am talking a lot about voluntary firefighting. Voluntary firefighting in Slovenia also has its ethical code. This ethical code is also concentrated in the essence of the ethics of Slovenian voluntary firefighting, which says: “Equal cooperation, building and creating, not harming others and doing everything culturally, with knowledge and with respect.” It's true it's a fire code. But consider: At least in some of his works, it might apply to us at some time or even to us in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The motioner has the floor. Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u143	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for that position, Mr. Polnar. As far as the presence of Members of our Group is concerned, you know that this month is very varied, especially as regards the constitutional meetings of the municipal councils. I won't be voting tomorrow either, because we have a meeting of our municipal council where we have a budget. Some of the colleagues had yesterday, some of them have today, they're sick, they're things that are planned that you just can't plan sooner because you don't know two weeks when exactly what point will be on the agenda. But given that today is also an important item on the agenda or the vote, I can guarantee you that I think we will all be present today. As far as your position on marriage is concerned, I can only say that welcome to the club of those who obviously don't know anything, who make laws just so on average that we don't know things that we abuse firefighters. And to include one thing Mrs. Urh said earlier. Mr President, at this time, I went to look at the National Assembly's website and found that the National Assembly's website itself said that, at the time when Members perform their functions in the government, the so-called Deputy Members would come to Parliament instead. So, Mrs. Urh, it didn't grow on my cabbage.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Janja Slug, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u145	Mr Vice-President, now I really ask you to remind the proposer of what we are currently discussing. One word, too, is no longer intended for the content of what we have on our tables. To talk about everything else, about alternate Members, about the number of votes, about the Celine, I don't know what else we're discussing today, we're discussing these poor three articles that they put here on the table and let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mrs. Carla Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u147	I've already been mentioned, perhaps only: I'm glad, I'm proud to be a Member instead of Prime Minister Marjan Sarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u149	Thank you, Vice President. The debate has been over for quite some time. 54 minutes is still available. Something has been said, both by the opposition and by the coalition. My procedural proposal is to make the Secretary of State a mag. Milos Bizjak, however, took a position, given everything that was said in the debate. We see that there will also be support from some coalition Members and I would like to hear it, but I understand Mr Bisjak if he will obey the command of Mr Han, who has now told him to wait until the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Bizjak, would you like a word? In the end, thank you very much. Let's move on. Tomaž Lisec has the word to prepare Jerca Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u151	Thank you. Maybe it's about the procedure first. The SMC MP says, peeves or fights three articles, and the Member of Desus says that these three articles regulate six matters. This is effective, respected and respected. So much for the intro. Why did I, in particular, apply for a discussion in today’s law? I have spent most of my previous term either as Vice-President or as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and for most of the time as a member of the Committee on Agriculture at emergency meetings, when we have taken measures or have also proposed legislation to address the problems of natural disasters, capture and the like. Almost every session, at every conclusion, we have come to every law as to how many people are involved in the resolution of natural disasters and we have always been among the first, perhaps in addition to foresters, always mentioned by firefighters; or professional or voluntary, especially as it is said, the most frequently operational firefighters, as defined by the rules of the fire service. Earlier, it was said how the previous government was getting rid of all that it had done for firefighters — and the law in force was in 2005. So much for how we all realistically assess the situation of Slovenian firefighters and firefighters together. While in the SDS Group we introduced the law, while in the SDS we proposed amendments to the budgets and to the budgets that the coalition overrun, nothing happened. Today the law is again before us, partly recycled, and the coalition is against; and more, I will start with the government's opinion. In conclusion, the government emphasises its commitment to improving the situation in the field of firefighting. As we said, six matters of the bill are regulated, but the government is against it. By the end of 2018, the Government is expected to submit a proposal and supplement to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Secretary of State, the working days of this year are tomorrow, Friday, Monday, and I think it's Thursday and Friday. I hope and expect you to do what you write. In short, the end of December is before us, and at the end of December, it is time to see what kind of law you have drawn up that you will put into the National Assembly in these days. While this same coalition shows us inconsistentness, non-systematicity, it says, we will now in ten days draw up a proposal for a law, but, also within the Ministry of Defence, we are preparing the starting points for a new Fire Action Act. Why, then, do you prepare one non-systemic law that you will file within the next ten days if you are preparing a system law? And then you tell us what's off the charts. Something is not going together, Mr Secretary of State, but above all the distinguished representatives of the government coalition, who have received a harvest ticket for the entire mandate, where it is repeated: the law is not systemic, we will make it systemic. Why, then, do we look forward to the arrival of an intervention or nonsystemic law if you are preparing a system law? While you are saying how this law has unspecified financial implications, remember the discussions of ministers, secretaries of state, as well as you, Members and Members, under certain laws that you have implemented in this mandate: the Minimum Wages Act – Financial Consequences Who would Know? The Law on State Administration and the Law on Government, which are being prepared, write down who would know the financial consequences. In short, it is not a problem for the coalition if it says that the financial consequences are not specifically known – we set the law ablaze. When the opposition comes, we say, in terms of operating in practice, the problem of financial consequences is unknown and this law is not good. And, Mr State Secretary, since we have an opportunity, you are at least among us today, not just the law before us, the Fire Act. I hope that you, together with the Ministry of Environment and Space, will urgently prepare a Systemic Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, because we have proposed at least five conclusions to you in the previous term, at least as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, because we have found that it is one of the most catastrophic laws – it has always been: “The government will prepare”. Mr. Secretary of State, you know that if you are the Minister of State, you are a member of the Government. And you've been a member for over four years, and we're still waiting for a promise, for systemic solutions. Today we have things before us that, at some level of society, would be gladly confirmed in normal society. The employment of firefighters is being stimulated by reducing insurance premiums and tax reliefs for the employer. I know quite a few firefighters myself, a lot more operative firefighters, volunteers, and I know employers who say the road took off, firefighters went off, and three guys from my firm went to the field all day. What will the state give us back? And today we're listening to where the employers are, why we don't have their opinion at the door. I think that all employers would welcome this measure, and they would be even more pleased to hear that their employees are firefighters, not that they have a problem when they hear that their future worker is also a firefighter. Means for preventive health checks of operational firefighters are provided for in this Act. You remember the former Prime Minister of the Government, currently the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who, in the event of some natural, non-natural disasters – Kemis and so on – said that firefighters and those who were first on the scene should be helped. The means of preventive health checks are defined by this law. This same coalition, which is full of mouths about how people need to be helped, all the health problems they have because they put their health and life on the ground — you will obviously be against it today. Third, additional health insurance shall be provided to firefighters and additional pension insurance shall be provided for each day. Today there was something quite said about how your brothers, sisters, especially fathers, I don't know who were firefighters. I am only the lowest firefighter interviewed, but I have colleagues who are so professional, especially I have a lot of those who are operational firefighters – and what they are risking – when a lot of interventions shorten what they hope to experience for some day, and this is the realisation of the implementation of pension legislation. In short, respected, valid law from 2005 and the last 5 years we've been listening to, for the last 6 years: system solutions! The firefighters ask for help, and the municipalities ask the state to replace them with firefighters, and the government coalition, the left side of the National Assembly, pushes their heads into the sand, and many words talk about firefighters, by acts, that is, by pressing the button against the law, which improves the condition of firefighters, you do exactly the opposite of what you promise. In short, not only is it systemic or is it an issue that needs to be said: either words or actions. Your Honor! You have the opportunity to do something really concrete, not just with words for Slovenian firefighters. I'll be happy to support the marriage myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The word has Jerz Korče to prepare Joseph Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u153	President, thank you for your word. What saddens me most today is that when I saw this proposal, I said, wow, nice, finally really good theme, you're going in the right direction, you really need to fix and improve the position of volunteer firefighters. And I was really happy. When I read it, though, this joy passed me, but we do know that we can put the matter through, amend it, and so on at first reading. It bothers me, however, that we are in this debate today, rather than actually discussing the problems of voluntary firefighters and, in fact, perhaps some proposal and some cover we have also opened to the Ministry that it will make it even easier to include this in the proposal it is preparing, we have gone into something that is bad, sad and much more. And that is to politicize with the concept of firefighting. Everybody. I will not go to the opposition here, even to the coalition MPs. Who bought AED, who's all the firefighter, you mention success, you say thank you, you say badges. That's not right! And that's true, that's not right. Let's all draw a line here and leave the fire department where it is. And these are our firemen, of all of us: the left, the right, the green, the purple, however you turn. And I don't know why I think, fellow proponent, that this marriage came to the table because of this; because of some promotion, because of some politicisation of this, because now that the public is watching us, we can show off our fire companies. I'm not going to do this because everyone who knows me knows how many volunteer hours this was meant for in my life. Everyone also knows that the Prime Minister of the Government has already made a clear commitment in the pre-election campaign that something will have to be done in this area. However, the fact that these things that you are pursuing in this proposal will not solve this problem that we have and is real is that a lot of firefighters, especially in the countryside that work in craftsmen, in smaller companies where there are maybe three employees, four from the same place, come to the point that if all firefighters — which they usually are — have problems when intervention occurs because firefighters go to the same intervention. We will not solve this problem – the problems of employers in this case I am talking about – with no tax reliefs or similar matters. We can only support this in this way that we constantly encourage in the public this feeling that socially responsible companies are important for firefighting as well. As I say, we're not going to solve a lot of employers' problems with any law. This is just a matter of whether we as a society as a whole are aware of why firefighters are important, and that even a craftsman, although causing him problems, is squeezing his teeth because he works for his place and for social well-being, and then the place admits it to him. However, if there is no work done in that part, we will not be able to replace it with any compensation, as such compensation for the manna which the craftsman has had would be too much of a cost for the state budget. That's perfectly clear. Systemic was also mentioned to link myself to this. This is not about system regulation in every case. It is a matter of having an executive branch of authority in charge of this or having an insight into the system to draw up a proposal. I'm not going to turn around, because in a four-year period something was not done or why something was not done during a 20-year period. I think firefighters have a solid position, but improvements are certainly possible. All firefighters who are in here, and those who are outside, know that they do not do this for their own financial benefit, but they do it because they are such people or we are such people. I think the ministry will be in a short time, so if it is written down, the Ministry of Defence will complete the reform of the Firearms Act, where the contents will be included, which are also part of the proposal of the Group of Members, we believe and – we are waiting. However, if the matter does not move quickly, we all have the opportunity to encourage it. Here I think the list of Marjana Sharca will certainly stand for these matters to be settled. Today, however, I will reject this bill, which is proposed, for this reason, because I do not believe that with the partial issues of the three articles we can solve anything in firefighters, but that it is possible to take a little look at the system, with whom we can also consult, discuss and find the most optimal solutions. As we say, that's why we have a government and a ministry here that knows this subject that has an insight into the system. I believe this will also be done in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Before he gets the floor, Member General Joseph Lenart has the floor to propose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you. It is good to see that a colleague of Jerca, along with Mr Polnar, with a normal debate and a substantive solution to the time of the coalition. And I agree practically with everything. But you know what the problem is? Yeah, firefighter problems. If we open a law, we face a problem already in section 6 of the law. Article 6 speaks of the congregation’s tasks. Then we have fire companies that start – and I think that most of them are, rightly, of course – who start to compare, how much the neighbouring municipality is going to do for firefighting companies, how much the neighbouring municipality is going to do for firefighting equipment. Some congregations more, others less congregations. Then we ask ourselves again what the congregation’s task is. Does the congregation have to finance all firefighting equipment? If not, to what extent? On what plans? Is the congregation also responsible for financing the construction of a firehouse and so forth? All things cannot be resolved by Parliament, government or the state as regards voluntary firefighting. There are also many on the shoulders of the congregations. Of course, each congregation depends on how much money it spends on the operation of firefighting companies, firefighting equipment, and so on. This is on the shoulders of the congregations, depending on the coalition, depending on the direction the fires are going, the goals and, above all, the municipal fire brigade. Because I believe — even in our congregation — that it is a prerequisite for you to see some direction of development, for the municipal fire department to draw up a list of investments, and for everything to be done. Mrs. Korce, look, it's in your coalition contract. And that's the only problem. The status, conditions for the work and equipment of firefighters and firefighters, paramedics and paramedics and other volunteers and volunteers of voluntary organisations operating in the protection and rescue system should be regulated. You know that's practically what it says in all the coalition contracts. Until now. It is also in the previous one, where Mr Bizjak sat for four years. And in four years, he didn't make it. Now you've given him this assignment again. That he won't do it in the next four years. That's why! And that; only this obvious – systematically, I agree with that. Why did we invest? Once again, because this same minimum amendment law has now been adopted in the previous term. Unfortunately, however, it was not the turn of the second reading to the committee, since the government had previously completed its mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Joseph Lenart. But get ready for Franz Jursha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your word. The Secretary-General and all Members and Members of Parliament present. From this debate, it is clear from these discussions that we are well aware of the problem we are discussing about the problem of firefighters. Perhaps at first just this — how long are we ready to wait for our firefighters when they burn? How long must they be willing to wait for their status arrangements? So - firefighters are our additional security. Some kind of mutual assistance and insurance. We're all counting on them to be here when it burns. We need them when we are in danger alone, when our dearest are in danger, or when it comes to our highly esteemed possessions, our homes. Moreover, firefighters are prepared to protect us and our property to risk their entire health and life. And for such solidarity and self-sacrifice, we cannot treat them like a fifth wheel on a wagon. Fifth wheel on the wagon. How long are they gonna be waiting for us? Our country has some very good heritage. And this solidarity. Many things were probably good in the previous system that we could keep, but they are gone today. We're all aware of that. But – this solidarity we are trying to reward here today by regulating their status. So our amendments or our additions to the Fires Act improve the operation of fire companies and pursue the goal of facilitating this humane and self-sacrificing work of firefighters and firefighters. We also believe that these measures will encourage employers to work. Since we all know that when a person has to fly to a fire for a quick time and leave his job empty, of course no employer likes it. That's where the problems come in. So the state would be covering for operational firefighters for insurance and some other things, and we have heard here today that some good things are only in this proposal, which has already been tabled once. Our past government has always stressed its commitment to improving the situation in the field of firefighting as an important humanitarian activity. The former Prime Minister of the Government also liked to appear at large firefighters' events, and we were even together at one. It was the Ptuj Fire Force Congress, 4,000 600 people — like one army! You really feel proud, and at that time his words were, Mr. Cerar: “You are a living proof of how powerful a man can be if he is not alone. “ But now we also have a new Prime Minister, who is also very proud of his fellow firefighters, and perhaps it is just the right time for these two gentlemen to make some moves, perhaps to encourage the old President to make a new one now, let's make some arrangements here a little faster. So I believe that we are on the right track today and that we are going to action, action. Let us leave any offense, help people to continue doing their work as well as they have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Franz Jurša, who I would like to point out is that he has only a few seconds to discuss. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, won't you discuss it? [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. Then he has the word of the next Franz Kramar, and Mr Daniel Krivec is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let me just say that I actually know the operation of voluntary fire companies. I was five mayors, and I can say, I caricature, their commander-in-chief, and I know what it means to have good firefighters, and in the area where I come from, every year, elemental accidents, reptiles, floods, short wind, without firefighters in such situations, it is difficult for them, and in fact, for all the things they have done so far, I am extremely grateful. [[…]] After all, they have also prevented much damage and deserve public praise. Of course, there is no way to overlook what these boys, and even girls, miss the most. Good equipment, to be honest. You know, volunteering is already based on volunteerism, and none of the volunteer firefighters joined the fire department to enjoy any material ratings or anything but the opposite. So he joined because he felt the conscience for help, the need for salvation, and I can say that from year to year we learned that the congregations are actually the only ones — but really the only ones — who care for equipment in these societies and for all the other costs incurred by voluntary firefighting companies. I'm not saying it's a precaution to be on the subject of firefighting. Given that I believe it is the structure of people who deserve not only praise, but recognition, their humanitarianity, ethics and other qualities are indeed on the level. It is only for the consideration I have seen in the content of the articles that it is recognised that the employer or that he is exempt from contributions to social or pension insurance. Of course it's going. In these types, which unite firefighters, not only are people who are employed, but they are also unemployed. What about in that case? That must be said, there is a big problem here. During this time, there were quite a few laws that were very attractive and that should be approached with caution, because each word can cost something and we really need to look for the words with which we express ourselves, so as not to hurt anyone, but I think that the proposaler would suggest that he should try to align his position with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before coming to the National Assembly before coming to law. I think it is the Government that is obliged to enforce the laws and if the Government harmonises any law from any political party, then I do not think that such a law will be a problem in Parliament. I therefore recommend for the future that the applicants try to harmonise with the Government and to draw up a law that will have all the elements, including the financial consequences, because this Fire Act does not have them. This is an awkward force because no one knows today what the financial consequences will be and what results from what the provisions and articles of this law provide. In short, in the future, let us try to work together for the same thing, but we will need to talk; to talk, to coordinate, and on this basis I am sure that a number of laws will also be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the following word to prepare Mr Andrej Šushmelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Before me, a fellow mayor, a former mayor, is now gone. I've been a mayor myself for years. I am also a fire officer to the final stage, for over 40 years soon a firefighter, and I have been also a Civil Protection Commander, all the time in this system, so I know things and I'm a little surprised by some debate about trying to enforce some of the privileges or privileges with this law, but I don't know what kind of words are still going on, but it's not systemic, and others are coming. In fact, it is a proposal that was adopted in the first reading, which, last but not least, relies on the fact that the same law was adopted in the previous term in the first reading, but has not been fully processed. At that time, I would say, one part of this coalition, which is now sitting in the National Assembly, supported the matter, because everyone is aware that things are to some extent out of order. On the other hand, it is the content contained in the coalition contract, which means that it is also to some extent consistent with the Government, at least with government parties, which the colleague mentioned earlier is necessary to negotiate. In order not to define all financial consequences, usually even when laws are in first reading, this element does not necessarily have to be fully divided. The proposals go in the direction that other countries have in their solutions. You all talk a lot about a system that operates in our neighbouring country, Austria or perhaps Italy. This first article follows exactly this, because this instrument is very well used in our neighborhood. It is said that employers who have employed operational firefighters also have a certain rating from this heading because, on the other hand, there is a number of disruptions to the work process, which colleagues and colleagues have already pointed out, and our ambition in this article is to balance this, give-give. It is said that an employer may also receive some credit through some insurance premiums or other tax reliefs. This will also make it easier to employ operational firefighters. In Article 2, however, it is a matter of ensuring, not from the budgets of local communities, but through a legal obligation, the insurance of operational firefighters, because firefighters generally intervene throughout the country, at least in the last period, it has been clear that in major disasters these things do not happen only in one local community, but this is a broader problem. In this case, it would be right to sort it out in a systematic way. Those involved in traffic accidents, however, already have this source in law. This article also complements the preventive health checks currently being paid by local communities. However, all resources available to voluntary fire companies stem from the resources available to local communities. On the one hand, through legislation, we constantly limit the free resources that local communities have for their operations in investment, in other things, and our ambition is that at least in this part where some groups of people can operate in a wider space, not only in one local community, at least the basic things they need to have are transferred to some legal regulation and thus the burden on some state level. For when we need them, they intercede all over the country. With that, I hope you agree. In the latter part, we also point out that those who are operational in the field, at least during that period, would have some rights in pension insurance as well. The question, to what extent and with what amounts this is regulated, is a matter for further discussion. It is difficult to accept the fact that you are talking about that this is some kind of loving law that is unnecessary, which we do not need, because at this point we still have economic growth. Probably in the next two years, the matter will get a little spooky, and then your excuse will be, yes, if it were settled when it was possible, it would be, and now we have a recession again and these things should not be regulated. That's what we're gonna hear. I'm gonna flip you a magnetogram. Therefore, I appeal, given that you have already processed this matter once, supported it, had some understanding that this should be settled once, as it is necessary for us to now vote in the first reading of the matter, to also prepare specific explanations and also calculations in each article, as you wish, and to accept this through the procedure. For if we don't handle this now, believe that in the next year it will be significantly harder, and in two years it will not be possible at all, because trends are likely to go in a different direction. From words to words it is necessary to go once to action, this is some floscule that the new Members keep saying that it is not only necessary to speak, but also something to arrange. And here's your chance to make it happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Šushmelj has given up the debate, we have only the last of the speakers to report. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to join those Members and Members who simply cannot bear what I think is right to politicise this law. Today we have seen who was the one who brought this matter to this point in order to have a partial politicization of this law. I don't think firefighters have any right to abuse in such or other personal or any interest. Unfortunately, this has happened here today, but the truth must come in the day, and it is just to find out what is right and what is wrong. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have introduced this law into the parliamentary procedure in order to help the operational firefighters; to help to resolve at least two things. The first is that this bill complements the status of an operative firefighter. Secondly, the draft law also provides that the Republic of Slovenia shall provide voluntary operational firefighters with funding for additional health insurance and, for each day, for the implementation of operational firefighting tasks, additional pension insurance. I mean, if it's too much of what this law says we do for operative firefighters! I will tell you just one example that I experienced myself when my fellow firefighters from Lower Kungota rushed to the rescue when there was a cardiac arrest. The matter ended tragically, and when they came back, because I waited for them there, they should see what a shock it was for those firemen and firefighters. On the one hand, you can see what firefighters and firefighters are willing to do for us, and on the other hand, we are not ready to take a small step against complementing the status of an operative firefighter. I think that this is inappropriate and that all those dear Members and Members who are in this call and sit here, regardless of the opposition, the coalition, I ask you to understand this thing in such a way that we help these firemen and firefighters not only through words but also through actions. This proposal for a law is one that goes in this direction. Today, when I listened to the various debates – I am glad that any debate that is positive is going in the direction of solving this problem – there have been some good discussions. Of course, this law is also prepared in the first reading; it can be upgraded in the second and so forth, that this law will be acceptable and will finally see the light at the end of the tunnel. We just keep talking — look how many years we've been talking about firefighting! The government is in its own – I don't know if I have that much time; I still have so much time – in my opinion, it said: "In conclusion, the Government stresses its commitment to improving the situation in the field of firefighting as an important humanitarian activity in the public interest, including improving the status and rights of both professional and voluntary firefighters. In this respect, the Government is expected to submit a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the end of 2018, "for several days, by the end of 2018, to supplement the Firearms Act, which will provide a permanent allowance on the basis of the agreement concluded, Official Gazette, No. 1, and so on, "a more appropriate and comparable basis with other uniformed professions. The Ministry of Defence also prepares a starting point for the new Firearms Act, which also places great emphasis on improving the situation of firefighters." Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, what else do we propose in this law than what the government concludes? Of course, we cannot wait for the government to write and say over and over again that they will prepare to save things. That didn't happen four years ago. And this same government — almost, almost recycled — has been in power for four and a half years. And nothing happens again, just promises of promise. Of course, we can't accept that. I'm a member of the Fire Company, the Voluntary Fire Company of the Lower Kungota, and I'm among the firefighters and I know what they're alerting me to. There is nothing else in this marriage than what firefighters and firefighters want their status to be arranged differently than it is now, of course, that some things change in a positive direction. Today we should not be in this national assembly of those who think and try to divide us again and again into yours and ours. I just can't listen to this anymore. It is amazing how successful a certain structure of people in this national assembly is to try to convince Slovenian people that we exist both ours and yours. I am sure that all Members and Members of this National Assembly are ours. Please, all of you, whatever side you're sitting on, stop using this word link that's hurting all of us, especially the Slovenes and Slovenians and firefighters and firefighters. That is why I am asking you all to confirm this law in the first reading today and to prove that it is our business to help firefighters and firefighters to carry out their work better, easier, better, and so on. If I had a little more time, I'd like to say one more sentence, but unfortunately I'm running out of time. But I'm very disappointed that the government here has reported five minutes to discuss, and then you know what the government has to do with firefighters and firefighters.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you very much. With this we have come to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a proposer. First he gets the word Secretary of State Mag. Milos Bizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! First, some things that have been wrong here today — deliberately or unintentionally — I don't know — have to be said. That is, that there is no regulated firefighter insurance and that there are no health checks for firefighters that are not financed. That's all. Each volunteer firefighter, each operational firefighter shall be provided with insurance and shall be provided with a medical examination. It is true that it is paid by the congregations, but it is also public funds. First thing. Second. You ask me what will happen in our proposal to amend the law. In this bill, which we will send to the Government this week and will be discussed by the Government at its first meetings next year, what has been achieved by the strike agreement will be realized. This is a supplement for professional firefighters. You did not take this into account in the original law and also in this proposal of the law, and you did not bring it in. Second. You're asking me when the new Fire Act is gonna be. We are preparing and coordinating the new Firefighters Act and will present it when it is coordinated with the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, with the Association of Slovenian Professional Firefighters, with the Community of Fire Rescue Services of Slovenia and with industrial firefighters. At that time, we will send it primarily to avoid getting out of all 150,000 firefighters a firefighter who will be dissatisfied and then here in the National Assembly, you will quote that the entire firefighter organization is unhappy with the law. That's why we're interested in trying to coordinate with these actors. Mr Mahnic, you said that the Minister would decide and write an opinion. One Minister may decide, but this opinion has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in which all the competent departments concerned have been involved. Then there's something else, Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert said you don't have an apparatus, just like the government. True, but respected proponents, if you don't have an apparatus, you still didn't have to rewrite the comparative analysis from our law. This comparative analysis you now have in your marriage is prescribed in our original law. Now there's something else. If we have the ambition to make a serious change in the situation in this area, then we need to address it systematically. This is in such a way that the tax issue is regulated in tax legislation, a health issue in health legislation. This would be correct if you had a serious intention, if you were to make amendments to the laws, and this is introduced. As far as solutions are concerned, the only place where I don't think there's really a sufficiently regulated situation is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter. However, you need to know that no stimulation will help the employer if he has very strong and promising business and the absence of a fire extinguisher prevents him. It is already regulated, every employer is entitled to a refund, every employer is entitled to a loss of profits. For one part of the percentage he loses by leaving his fireman, he has the chance to get the state to pay him back. However, I must tell you that employers in practice do not use such mechanisms. And that is why I think that even with the stimulation that you have just proposed, employers will probably not be satisfied. The second option is to sanction employers, which I believe is not in the interest of us as the executive branch of power or of you. And on the last question, because I really only have five minutes to tell you why I've only chosen five minutes. Because what I have to say about this law in substance, I can say in 30 seconds, and I'm going to tell you that now. This law is rejected by the Government because the basic concepts are not cleared. You did not define insurance premiums for which research premiums are concerned, you did not tell which tax benefits you have in mind, but, in general, you did not specify whether these matters concern existing employees or new employees, you did not either define or say whether this is an additional pension insurance or an additional pension, and you did not even find the financial consequences that this matter entails. I understand you couldn't figure it out because you have no clear idea what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u167	Thank you. Too bad you don't have any more time, because my question would be next, and then what would your excuses be if you put all that in there? Everything is not just the average of the congregation. We can also relieve the municipalities in this way, as we propose in law, that certain tasks be transferred to the country, and that is what we propose in Article 2. Yeah, that's already paid to firefighters, but now the state would be paying for it. As far as your observations are concerned, look, Mr. Bizjak, article 1 may go to a second reading, we can write: "the status of an operational volunteer firefighter is the relationship between the employer and the firefighter with whom he works" and then we can give here, as far as students, students and the unemployed are concerned, we agree to stimulate the employment of firefighters by adding, as is already the case with employees, not just employment, that employers are reduced in insurance premiums by so much and so many percentages and have tax exemptions for the percentage. [[…]] This is a matter that we can work out together, including with the fire liaison. And where there's a word missing from a volunteer operative, we put it in. In short, these are small changes that could be made. But I just don't believe you, Mr Bizjak, for four years you have been Secretary of State at the MORS and the Slovenian Armed Forces is in disarray, you have been Secretary of State at the MORS for four years and there has been no change in the field of firefighting. And now you're appointed for the next four years. Look, based on your past work, I just don't believe you. But you wrote in your opinion that you would include these things. No problem, if we accept this today and go to another reading, you can also include the things already adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Since, first of all, I would like to point out that if a representative of the proposer and a representative of the Government would like to discuss it, they must apply to the debate by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Now I'm opening an application for debate. Sign up, please. Seven panellists have been reported. I would like to point out that each of them has one minute and three seconds to discuss. First of all, Mr. Marijan Pojbič gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must say, this attitude of the Secretary of State has really disturbed me. That's what's out of bounds. However, how this man behaves, I do not think it is appropriate for the State Assembly or for the Secretary of State. Among other things, he said that they are preparing and coordinating legislation. Four years! The fifth year is running. You're still preparing and coordinating. How long? I ask you this, Mr Secretary of State, how long do you plan to coordinate? Citizens and citizens, firefighters and firefighters have this over their heads. We just wait, wait or wait for systemic or other solutions, we always just coordinate. And that's what people can't live on. Let me get this straight. And you said you only needed 30 seconds and you had enough to say about this law what you think is right. That's your opinion, Mr. Bizjak. This does not mean that this is an opinion that holds back. Your opinion is obviously that way because you're not the right person for that town. Because if you were the right person, these solutions would have been on the table of the parliamentary groups a long time ago. No matter what customer you come from. And you haven't done that in four years. And even now, not in the fifth year, so we don't trust you and we don't believe you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mrs. Jerca Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thanks again. I'm glad I only have a minute. I am even more pleased that the Secretary of State has announced only five minutes. I am very pleased and recommending or recommending that you all apologize to him for being able to tell him exactly in five minutes and clearly where the problem is. It seems to me that all of us should turn these five minutes again and even erase all this debate, which we've been wasting for hours. Because in five minutes he said the key things that are problematic in this marriage. And he said them very nicely, very exact and according to the points. Not that I'm defending him, but I really think so. So I would suggest in the future that we allow all the secretaries of state – because if you can't tell the point in five minutes, and we know that, because otherwise our debates wouldn't be standardized for five minutes – then you really aren't for a certain function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, in 2014 our mouths were full of us: Firefighters, help! We'll take care of it! Everything! Just get Slovenia back to some normal state. It wasn't any of that. They're disappointed. Of course, that is why we are making laws to wake you up, however, so that the status of voluntary firefighters, especially those who may be in firefighting companies that have the authority to intervene on highways and other roads, needs to be regulated. Yeah, the only law that went through suggested him, of course, a fireman from PGD Logatec. This was to move each one to the other side of the highway so that the ambulance could go down the middle of the road. Did this come from ministerial groups, or did it come directly from those who need certain laws? And they're firefighters, and they needed this law to set up a seat belt in the middle of the highway. So I find it extremely inappropriate to say what was wrong with the marriage but not to come by law. Prove that you can and that you can do better. And as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Only Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr Mahnic told me that in the position of the SD Group, I had deceived that the Government's Fire Action Act had not been passed because it had been hampered by the opposition proposal. Since I was not a Member in the previous term, I will re-examine all parliamentary procedures and business finesse. It is true, however, that the resignation of the Prime Minister, Dr Cerar, stopped all proceedings, which, of course, the Social Democracy or the Group of Members had no effect at that time. However, I must say that right here in the congregations of Idrija and Cerkno, volunteer firefighters are very well equipped and that we can trust them in advance. We will also take care of their equipment in the future, not only with us, but throughout the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Jurša has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. I must begin with one thing, but I expect, however, my fellow Members, that we have a more respectful relationship with one another. In a way that you speak, you really don't. In the final stage here we have the Secretary of State, who has some age, some work well, and I think that this kind of attitude towards the fellow man on our part must be. Anything that falls on someone's tongue can't really be said. Look, this was actually a commercial today, starting an election campaign for the next election. Simple and simple. I don't need to be explained. You know, I know a lot about firefighting, maybe more than any of you think, but I'm not gonna talk about where and where. I've done everything in the fire department. But who's the chief firefighter in the congregation, you know. The mayor. He's the one who actually has everything in his hands in some way. And if he's a good mayor, he respects [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your time is up. Mr. Boris Doblekar has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u179	Respected and respected! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have prepared an excellent proposal to amend the law in favour of firefighters and firefighters. Above all, it is also going in the direction that in addition to municipalities that are quite budget-poor and do, I think, all the municipalities do what they can for firefighters for firefighters, volunteer firefighters, and also for firefighters to come to the aid of the country. There's money for a lot of things. It would be good to find one for firefighters, too. Since the marriage was not previously changed or prepared, we did so, although it is only in the first reading, we have every opportunity to make changes and get to the second reading. It seems to me that at least some kind of law that we're proposing, which is good, which is real, and I believe that you agree with it, but it's not our proposals that go through. I also ask in our own name that we try and get this proposal to a second reading. I'll be the one [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u180	Thank you very much. As the last one has the word, Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you. Firefighting in Slovenia, especially voluntary firefighting, is at an enviable high level. Those who have ever visited some firefighters in another country know that they are truly well equipped, qualified, as far as equipment and organization are concerned. However, there are some other things that could be improved and improved through legislation. I don't agree to what the Secretary of State says. It will also seem very strange to me — and this is an electoral campaign, Mr Jurša — if you vote for the same law today differently than you voted before the March elections, because there is no reason, even more, for improvement in an article where it is more exact to define who the insurance is to and from here on out, we can fix it with an amendment, Mr Bizjak, whether it is an additional or an additional one. All that concerns amendments is one day of good faith. But if it goes to another reading, then it has ensured that something will be done with the corrections that will logically be proposed by the Government in this law. But if this goes down today, there's only one thing I'm interested in, colleagues and colleagues. Until when should we wait before submitting a proposal again with all your comments that we know when to invest, and that you know by then to write new excuses why you will not support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the context of the vote, which will start half an hour after the end of the 12th point. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law amending the law of indemnity. The draft law was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Daniel Krivec. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Jožet Tank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening to you all! As you already know from the discussions and data, the situation in the country is improving. We have relatively favourable economic growth, the inflows to the budget have increased significantly, by more than one billion euros in one year. You have recently substantially increased the so-called state aid for the unemployed by €95 per month. At the annual level, this increase amounts to more than EUR 1,000 100 per beneficiary. And many pensioners, more than 75,000 of them, have fallen under the social aid of the unemployed. Among these, there are more than 22,000 pensioners who are between 20 and 30 years of age. A good month ago, we tabled a new law on income, proposing that something good be done for 1.5 million taxpayers. The bill concerns all Slovenian families. The law proposes to increase the general income allowance by 300 euros, raise the class limits by 2,000 euros and reduce the income level of all income classes by two percentage points. On average, the income burden of the taxpayer would fall by around EUR 250 to 300, which is still five times lower than your recent increase in aid to the unemployed. The basic purpose or purpose of the law, as you may have seen, is to reduce the income burden, as citizens also need to acquire and knit things in good times, or to fill the jaws for difficult times, not the country itself. It's an ideal opportunity for that now. Despite a slight reduction in budget revenues, in our proposal, some of this would be compensated by increased consumption or higher VAT collection, and some, of course, by slightly lower social transfers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the effects of good economic circumstances must be shared between the country, citizens and the economy. But unfortunately, from the government's views, which are written in our draft laws, there is nothing more than an endless desire to strengthen the country, to capture what has been created, and if it is ready to distribute anything, it divides it exclusively through transfers, through types before offices, through roles and so on, which is in fact a typical socialist approach. Instead of more freedom, we get more forms, more officials, a more expensive country, where half of what was created due to incompetence, corruption, translation of forms and conversions into decimals. Personal freedom and economic initiative are limited to this account. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that it is not only for the state to be rich when the country is doing well that its inhabitants and the economy, that is, those who create this wealth, are also rich. Our proposal is more modest for a single taxpayer, as I have said before, than the recent proposal of the Left and the coalition Members, which was voted by the coalition without difficulty. Therefore, it is unlikely that it will be a problem for the coalition Members to give support to our proposal at the next stage when the proposal is, of course, complemented by the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and, of course, of the coalition Members. I hope you can make this step and let the law go into second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you, proposer. I give the floor to Ms Natalija Kovač Jereb, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, to introduce the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u185	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted an opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending the Income Act, by which a group of Members proposes to reduce the rates of all in all income classes by two percentage points, to increase the general income allowance to EUR 3 000 500 and to increase the income class limits by EUR 2 000. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration due to a significant reduction in public financial revenues without proposals to replace the default by measures on the revenue or income side of the budget. We are aware of the importance of a favourable business environment and the impact of tax burdens on the competitiveness of the economy, but measures in this area must also be pursued in order to maintain sustainability and the stability of public finances, and this requires the preparation of measures based on the restructuring of public benefits, taking into account specific and necessary structural reforms and other key priorities. The proposal for that law means a drop in revenue in the state budget of around €326 million. This means an increase in income levels and an increase in income class limits. This drop is worth €297 million. The proposed increase in general relief amounts to EUR 36 million. The proposed solution, therefore based on a reduction in taxes on work, does not directly represent an economic burden, as it is a solution that would only increase the individual's income available. This solution could only have a minor impact on increasing private consumption and thus a slightly higher inflow from value added tax. This could not, however, replace the lower inflows of income, as the applicants state. It is estimated that higher inflows from value added tax can be expected, estimated at around EUR 20 million. In Slovenia, the largest share of labour burdens is social security contributions, indicating that compulsory social insurance schemes should also be taken into account. While data show that Slovenia is on average 38.9 GDP for 2016 after the tax and contribution burden, and 36.6 for Slovenia. However, the economic structure of taxes is quite unfavourable as it deviates from the average of European countries due to the over-average burden of labour and consumption and the under-average burden of capital and property. The applicants state that due to the high burden of work with taxes and contributions, the Slovenian economy is less competitive and productive because it cannot spend enough money on research and development, which is the basis of the economic growth and well-being of each country. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia emphasises that the burden of work with taxes and contributions is not the only one, but in particular it is not the most important factor in competitiveness and productivity. We also point to a number of tax measures, which have been taken precisely with a view to the competitiveness of the economy and the increase in economic growth since 2006. With regard to the corporate income tax, the changes in tax rates, the introduction and increase of tax reliefs, particularly for research and development, and the abolition of the tax on paid salaries since 2009. The national tax burden on the income of legal persons is significantly below the average of the Member States of the European Union. In particular, low burdens can be achieved by economic operators with investments, especially those investing in R & D. As stated above, the Government does not support the law and proposes not to support the proposals of the law. The tax burden on work is one of the important priorities of the Government, but only on the basis of the restructuring of tax burdens or the maintenance of sustainable and stable finances and the wider social and political consensus. In doing so, I will also guide us to respect the principle of a fair and equitable distribution of public financial burdens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and will present Mr Jani Ivanuš as the first member of the Slovenian National Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u187	Good evening, everyone, especially Madam Vice President and Madam Secretary of State! We have before us a bill amending the Income Act. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we want workers to receive higher net wages, so we support this bill, which would reduce taxes for workers. Work is too burdened with taxes and social security contributions, so people are willing to work. Although it is only cosmetic repairs, for a young person, every tax burden means a lot to a young person. The government also says that the economic structure of taxes and contributions in Slovenia is not the most favourable in terms of competitiveness, as it deviates from the average of European countries due to the over-the-average burden of work with social security contributions. The government also says that Slovenia, after the burden of working in 2017 on a single person, regardless of the level of income compared to the countries that are our competitors, Poland, Estonia, Spain, Slovakia, in the tax margin, is moving up. The tax margin in Slovenia is 42.9%, while in the OECD Member States the tax margin is 35.9%. And what does the government do for our competitiveness and lower labour taxes? Nothing. Let me mention the government's accounting error. According to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the Proposal for a Law amending the Income Act, No 00702/131, in 2018/7 of 6 December 2018, it is clear that the increase of the general benefit to EUR 3 000 500, the reduction in the rates in all income classes by 2 %, the increase in the income line by EUR 2 000, together, would mean a decrease in the national budget by around EUR 326 million. Furthermore, the government noted that only a reduction in all income rates by 2% and an increase in income levels by 2 000 euros would result in a fall in revenue of 297 million euros. An increase of EUR 3 000 500 in general relief would mean a drop of EUR 36 million. Total revenue would be EUR 333 million, which is more than the Government has estimated a little earlier. In one sentence, EUR 7 million is different. The Slovenian National Party's emissary group does not believe the assessments. We are aware, however, that a reduction in the tax burden would mean a lot to every worker. In our opinion, the government should relieve the one who is working, even more motivated by the tax burden, to work more and consequently have more in the form of higher income, more paid social security contributions, more productivity and so on. On the other hand, we should employ all the available active population to increase the revenue in the budget, more income, more social security contributions, and reduce the percentage of less social transfers. Despite the fact that employers do not hire enough workers, in November 2018 as many as 76,000 99 unemployed persons were still registered at the Employment Service. We will, of course, support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mag. Carmen Furman, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are meeting one of our commitments today in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We have therefore tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending the Income Act, which would give all income-received taxpayers a slightly higher net salary or, in other words, the adoption of the proposed law would leave a larger proportion of their salaries to all workers in their pocket. Today we will be witnessing whether the higher net salaries for all citizens and citizens are still in the interest of the ruling coalition political parties after the elections. The proposed amendment of the law follows three basic solutions: reducing the income rates for all income classes by 2 percentage points, increasing the general income allowance to 3 000 500 euros and increasing the income class limit by 2 000 euros. By implementing amendments to the proposed legislation, by taxing the income from work for all workers, it would be non-discriminatory to allow higher net wages and increase the purchasing power of all workers in the country. This would result in an increase in consumption, thus strengthening the economy, and through the tax system also the country's budget. Given the current indications on the global market on the cooling of the economy and the emergence of bear trend signals on global markets, the latter will be of particular importance in the future for the Slovenian economy. Unfortunately, this time too, there is no obedience from the Government and the Finance Ministry for the proposed changes. You're still supporting the novel's goal, but you're saying there's no money. However, you have already managed to sign an agreement to raise the salaries of public servants, and you have also rushed through your proposal for new jobs for officials, which is why you want to expand the government's network of state secretaries, of course the latter again at the expense of employees in the economy. Here today you have an answer, where and what to do to improve the situation on the payroll of employees in the economy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want economic growth to be known in the pockets and wallets of all citizens and citizens. The fact is, the salaries of Slovenian workers are among the highest taxes in the world. The numbers don't lie. In the mandate of the current government, we have tabled several proposals in our party to amend legislation to improve the quality of life and the well-being of our citizens. But unfortunately, all these suggestions have been rejected again and again by you to this day. So far, the ruling coalition has clearly been regarded as merely the fact that the law is proposed and not what its content is. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the opposition! It is also right that we keep our promises. Today you again have the opportunity to fulfil your pre-election promises and coalition commitments and to reduce the tax burden on the incomes of our citizens. The very high economic growth that you would like to praise should be an opportunity for all workers and workers in Slovenia to receive higher wages, not at the expense of additional burdens on the economy, but at the expense of reducing tax burdens. After all, at the time of economic growth, probably no government wants to brag about how high taxes it has. Take this step forward and stop looking for excuses. Give people what is theirs and what they deserve. Let their work be of value again. And that is why, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want your support for further consideration of the law when we consider the proposed amendments to the legislation today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Ms Andreja Zabret on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Government representatives, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The bill is based on a reduction in taxes, a burden on work with taxes, income. However, it does not directly imply a burden on the economy, as this would only increase the individual’s income available. The biggest impact on increasing private consumption would be in the lowest income classes where all additional income would be spent on consumption, as incomes are very low here, but these revenues that would come from VAT would not cover the significant revenue shortfalls in the state budget brought about by the novelty of the law. Slovenia is 36.9% of GDP, the EU average of 39.8%, after taxes and contributions under the EU average for 2016. This figure is even lower in 2017, 36.7%. This makes Slovenia 14th among the EU Member States. In the case of tax burdens, it is in the 21st place, and in the case of burdens with social contributions, it is not quite a high sixth place. Therefore, in the Group of Letters of Marjan Sarca, we agree that there is a need for a tax burden on work, but in the context of a broader social agreement and a comprehensive approach to change in the tax area, if we are to maintain the sustainability and stability of public finances. The bill states that the government's budget deficit would be significantly lower than or will not have been calculated by December 2017. That's not true. There would be around €326 million less in the budget because the proposal does not provide alternative resources. It is probably clear to all of us what this means – a grave intervention in health and pension bills, public education and social transfers. I believe that no Member would agree that the lack of funds that would result from the implementation of such a bill would be taken out of these registers and thereby deprive its citizens and citizens, especially those who are socially more vulnerable, of their social rights. We are aware that the competitiveness of the economy is crucial for the country and that this is also affected by tax burdens, and therefore we have committed ourselves in the LMŠ Group in the coalition contract to reduce, in accordance with the public financial possibilities, wage burdens by income or by raising general income relief or possible interventions into the income scale and classes, while stressing that the proposal will be prepared on the basis of a prepared professional analysis of the entire income system and related areas. We will therefore not support the draft law in the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc because it is very narrowly targeted and heavily burdensome for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Matjaž Han, on behalf of the SD Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u193	President, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I've got these two papers I've been carrying with me for the past year and a half. This is essentially the position of the Group of Social Democrats, which I can read or can also take a magnetogram from the proposals that are repeated every few months in the National Assembly. And I have to say that sometimes I'm disappointed with SDS, you have no real idea anymore. It's not. I'll tell you why. This is the same proposal you had at the 20th regular meeting last year, at the 35th meeting, at the 37th meeting, in the meantime New Slovenia then twice introduced the Income Act, then Mr. Chuš remembered, so that it seems to be such an important topic that it is not serious and irresponsible. Interestingly, when I first heard Mr Jožet Tank say that we had raised more money in the budget last year. Yes, but, my dear, my dear opposition, you would have wasted this one billion in this session from Tuesday to today. One billion of you, not one billion, but 700 million you would, we would have spent a billion over a year, but you would have lost 700 million in this week with laws such as the Home Care Act, the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act, the Kindergarten Act, you would have lost something for the Wine Act, the Firearms Act, and now the Income Act. What we've been creating for a year, in fact, would cost you in one week, hypothetically for people. If we were to leave this moment of power, accept all your suggestions – and where we would have come we would have wasted this country like this, we would have wasted the social state in one night. But it's true, the pianist, and I'll give you the hat down, but they're firefighting, parental supplement, income, wine and so on, all the segments of society you've caught in a way in one week, it sounds good, but math just doesn't work out. And so with ease and great responsibility in the first reading, we will reject all your laws, including your income law. Your starting point is also that the country is greedy and unreasonably high contributions to working people are lower than income and discourages them from economic activity. That's the right-hand view. Our job today is to say that this philosophy of yours is simply wrong, and to tell you that wages in this country are not only low due to taxes, but are lower than elsewhere, also due to solidarity. Thank God, we have such solidarity in this country, because otherwise I do not know how some workers, some entrepreneurs, some farmers, some people who are unemployed could survive in this country. And if there is any advantage in this country in the last 25 years, it is that we are not a country that is fragmented, because, in fact, the people who have less can walk without a problem in this country and we do not hate each other and we do not have some of the great pressures that some other countries have. The Income Act, now you can count or Ivanush has calculated, I think he doesn't know exactly why, but it doesn't matter, 300 million euros at least a year would cost your income story, so that maybe people between the circus would have a higher net salary of 20 and 25 euros. But then this consumption, which they are talking about – too bad, because there is no Mr. Horvath who knows everything – consumption would not catch all of these stories that we would actually waste today. I'm not even going to discuss this anymore, because I think some of the suggestions might be a little bit unrealistic. As a long-standing Member, however, I understand the philosophy of politics, which is in opposition. It must be said that the government knows nothing, how customers who advocate another view know nothing. You have to invest it. But, as I said at the beginning, a billion euros that we've been producing in one year would have been eaten by you in three days by these laws and you wouldn't have had any of it. That's why me and our client can't support such a marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Mateja Udovč, on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u195	Your Honor! SDS Group is 8. 11. 2018 has tabled a proposal for a law on income into the legislative procedure. It proposes a reduction in the rate by income class and an increase in general relief. A similar proposal was tabled by the SDS last year, but was viewed by the National Assembly at its regular January meeting this year as inappropriate for further consideration. In the Group of the Parties of the modern centre of the bill, we will not support the way the proposaler works. The law should be dealt with in the context of the comprehensive tax reform package, not just before the end of the financial year is reintroduced, in November with the deadline of 1. 1. 2019. No serious tax reform or correction of tax legislation with such major financial implications can be adopted and implemented in such a short time. In addition, at the October extraordinary and November regular session, the National Assembly has already rejected two pieces of legislation from the so-called SDS tax package. The mere fact that these bills have been tabled and dealt with at different times indicates that the applicant is following primarily the media effect. By this approach, the Government can repeatedly be made clear that it does not follow the principle of fairness and reasonable or moderate taxation of individual entities. This increases the mistaken belief that Slovenia is one of the most tax-friendly countries, although comparative data show a completely different picture. These comparisons only show that Slovenia deviates from the average of European countries due to the workload of labour and the burden of capital and property. This way of addressing the proposal also facilitates the coverage of disproportionate consequences for public finances. The financial implications of the proposed tax reforms are almost one billion euros, or so much less government revenue. The SDS denies or evaluates them very flat-rately. In the Modern Centre Party, we note that Slovenia certainly cannot afford the error of tax reform under the 2004-2008 mandate when the tax on salaries paid was abolished on behalf of the economy. This measure was reflected only in the budget deficit and the decline of EUR 500 million of public financial revenues, but not in the increase in the competitiveness of the economy. In doing so, we would also like to draw attention to the inconsistencies of the SDS, which is constantly being highlighted in public as a proponent of public financial sustainability. If the National Assembly had adopted the whole tax package of SDS, the state budget would have been in short supply far from the required 1% surplus required by the latter when it considered changes to the decree for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2018 to 2020. During this period, it plans a surplus of 0,3 % of GDP. Only the adoption of the SDS amendment to the Income Act would completely destroy the measures recently adopted by the ZIPRS 2018–2019 and the conclusion of an agreement on salaries and other public sector labour costs. The proposed novelty would dictate the continuation of the austerity policy, make the public financial situation worse for the municipalities or end the agreement on the averages due to the loss of government revenues of €326 million. I would also go to social dialogue and to public servants in the public sector to deny them the right to have more of a higher welfare for those who care for our health and education. It would prevent improvements in the situation of employees in the public sector. It would weaken the situation of the elderly or make it impossible for the pensioners to increase their regression. I'd go for the social transfers of vulnerable social groups. We could even list it, so it's unacceptable to us. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we are aware that Slovenia is moving away from the average of European countries due to labour burdens, capital burdens and assets. That is why we are facing comprehensive tax reform. However, before taking action, we must clearly agree on what we want to achieve with it, what we are able to do and what we are ready to take. We also need to reach an agreement with the social partners. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we advocate and support the approach of the Minister of Finance, who has already publicly announced comprehensive tax restructuring, which will ensure stable financing of public financial policies. There is also a well-designed income system within the reformed tax system. In the SDS, as a party already running two Slovenian governments, we should be aware of the fact that tax restructuring is too difficult to deal with in such a proposed way. We don't have to learn from mistakes again, they're too expensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr Luka Moon on behalf of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. I think that the starting point of every policy should be intellectual honesty. This law, which is before us, is not intellectually fair, for many reasons. The first one is public finance. Now, I've been behind the computer, I've opened Facebook, and I can see that the SDS party on Facebook advertises that if they were in power, every pensioner would get 500 Euro Christmas. On Monday, the same party argued that the budget should have no surplus. Today, they have introduced a law that would just wipe 300 million euros out of the budget. The law on VAT reduction, which would have resulted in the disappearance of EUR 600 million, was recently introduced in a similar way. So the numbers don't work here, but I understand the purpose of this policy. Just put down the VAT to tell entrepreneurs, but here, if we were in power, you'd have lower VAT. Put down your income so you can tell people, you know, if we were in power, you'd have higher net wages. You invest or propose 500 Euros of Christmas to tell the pensioners, here, if they were in power, they'd get a Christmas. But I would basically like to have this opportunity to be able to pause here in reality, hypothetically accept everything you've suggested this fall, and watch the movie in three months. I don't know if it would be any different than in France with these yellow vests, even though I hear some of yours to be sympathetic to them, even though they actually opposed Macron's cuts to taxes, because of course they've been particularly beneficial to the wealthy. In the end, Macron had to put an account in the form of higher excise duties to the poor, who had to be transported every day from the periphery to the cities. Another problem with the intellectual integrity of this policy is that it is misleading to say that Slovenia is among the most taxed countries in Europe. If you look at what comparable countries we like to follow, you will see that in Austria the highest wages are taxed at 55% rate, in us 50, in Denmark at 56% rate, in the Netherlands at 52%. Of course, on the other hand, they can show Bulgaria where all wages are taxed by 10 percent, but again I ask you which way they want to go. In Levi, we are convinced that if we are to approach the developed social states, it is also appropriate to measure taxes and a sufficiently large budget register to cover all services of some modern and developed countries. The third problem with intellectual honesty is that this is already another law that I read, that you wrote that you can lower some tax, and it will not have any negative effects on the budget. You did this last time on VAT. We are reducing VAT, there will be no negative effects on the budget. The Ministry of Finance is coming, says, no, no, the budget effects will be minus 600 million. This time you say, let's cut the income, there will be no negative effects on the budget. The Treasury makes a calculation, says, no, no, the effects will be minus 324 million. This means two, but that you know and deceive, and that for more than a billion euros, or b, that you really believe this story, that we lower taxes, that will translate into more consumption, that will translate into more economic growth, and eventually the country will get more into the budget. Because the countries do it, and we did it, and your government did it before the crisis. You've reduced 2006 a series of taxes. Did we get the budget back? In 2007, economic growth was, if I am not mistaken, 8 % and the budget was flat. Under the fiscal rule you are now defending, you should have a billion and a half. Because there was no surplus because you did exactly what you wanted us to do in the conjuncture now, we were rolling in the crisis for ten more years, cutting and trying to save this country. Why do you want us to watch this movie again because we just did? And the last one, which is not irrelevant as far as intellectual honesty is concerned, is an argument with higher wages. We have little to do with what effect your proposal would actually have on monthly income, and it shows this: on the minimum wage, the impact of the three measures on the income you are proposing would be known for the good EUR 20 net monthly. To someone who receives a five-fold minimum wage, say a Member, his income would increase by 220 euros per month. So it's a minimum wage of 20, five times the minimum wage of 220 or eleven times more. If we didn't talk, what would be the gain of a member of the board? So who are you doing this for? Are you really doing this for the people you're selling them now, so you can raise their salaries by decommissioning taxes, or are you doing this for their bosses? I think it's for everyone's last and for everyone's sake, because we're all going to feel budget cuts. We're going to vote against it in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Aleksander Reberšek for the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u199	Dear President, Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Income Act, which is ahead of us today, brings three key solutions: a 2% reduction in rates in all income classes, an increase in income levels by 2 000 euros and an increase in general income relief to 3 000 500 euros. A worker with an average salary of all these measures per month would receive about €45 more, which would mean around €540 more per month, at the annual level. In the field of labour tax burden, Slovenia is among countries with an average high percentage of duties, while on average the OECD is 36%, the burden on labour in Slovenia is 42.7%. The 2016 SPIRIT Agency survey shows that foreign investors among the biggest obstacles to investment in Slovenia see the exact burden of work with taxes and contributions and labour costs. However, the business survey carried out between German companies in Slovenia in 2015 shows that respondents see tax rates on income from work among the greatest competitiveness and attractiveness problems for investments and expect the government to reduce them as the most necessary measure. The law therefore brings tax burdens on work, which almost all parliamentary parties have been promised since before and after the elections. The only difference is that we have also prepared and tabled some of the bill's proposals and that coalition parties have remained silent. The overall budget deficit that this law would bring is estimated at around €320 million. In seeking excuses for rejecting the proposal, the Coalition argues that we cannot provide funds in the income-discharge budget. But no one wonders how to provide funds when the government increases spending by some 100 million euros when we invest hundreds of millions in projects such as TEM 6. No one asked about this in the years 2016 to 2019 when the previous government predicted an increase of almost €700 million in budgetary expenditure. We ask ourselves that question only when there is a tax burden on the table. Following this bill, the average monthly salary would be EUR 45 tax on the employee. In the Government's view, this is a major problem and fiscally unsustainable, but the government has not seen a problem in increasing the minimum wage by €60 the employer's burden by more than €110. In Novi Slovenija we advocate an increase in all wages. The time has come for the salaries of all employees in the public and private sectors to finally increase once at the expense of the State with tax relief. Christian Democrats believe that an individual is much more responsible and rational in handling financial resources than a country, so that only a limited amount of the resources necessary to operate its systems can be transferred to the country through taxes. Only a policy that does not trust its citizens requires them to pay too much taxes to manage these funds instead. Since the bill reduces the tax burden and pays higher wages for all, we will, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Franz Kramar, Party of Alenka Bratušek, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u201	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal from the SDS that wants to cut into the Income Act. The solutions advocated by the proposer are intended to reduce the tax burden in Slovenia. As a result, net wages are expected to rise, the competitiveness of the economy has increased and unemployment and the scope of the grey economy has decreased. Of course, it's a nice idea. We are probably all inclined to reduce taxes, even if it is considered. And who would complain about raising his net salary? But we can't just ignore the consequences that this would bring. What about public finances? In its assessment, the government stated that in the case of the proposed changes, the government was expected to lose around €326 million. Where would they take them? The proposed solution does not directly constitute a burden on the economy, as it would only increase the individual’s available income. Even though population consumption would certainly increase, it is likely utopian to expect it to increase so much to compensate for the loss of income. Secondly, perhaps even more important the question raised at the same time is what would happen to the consumption of the country. The importance of investment development, both economically and nationally, is constantly stressed. It would be very difficult to convince me that this deficit would not affect Slovenia's development capabilities. The government is constantly seeing what is not as it should be, for example, in infrastructure areas. Do you think such measures would contribute to various rehabilitations, improvements, constructions, renovations, short-term progress? Of course, the business environment needs to be strengthened, and we fully agree. But there is a need for a masterly swing between the competitiveness stakes on the one hand and the fiscal consolidation on the other, and above all, to ensure that you are not thrown out of balance by a sharper turn and thrown into the abyss of unbalanced public finances. We all know what that would mean, and it can happen sooner than we can imagine. It is therefore right that we strive for the stability of public finances in each measure and at the same time have a fiscal rule ahead of us all the time. We can all be aware that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must think of a number of factors when taking any such measures. The measures cannot just be introduced and implemented, but they must be placed within a broader framework and always reflect on the counterweight and countermeasure. These are essential in order to achieve a neutral effect without jeopardising fiscal consolidation. A fundamental goal that needs to be subordinated to a variety of things, even though it may be easier and better. And these counter-measures cannot be based solely on assumptions as is the case with the applicant when it assesses that the state budget would not suffer from income losses at all, as the net wages of workers will spill into consumption, and because of higher VAT revenues, the impact of the reduction in income rates, the increase in general income relief and the rise in income limits has been eliminated. That sounds a little too good. It is likely that the Government would sign such a scenario without any major concern, but unfortunately it cannot rely on such conclusions and unreasonable assumptions, but it must come from data based on analyses and verified facts. However, in general, it must also ensure that the social security of citizens does not suffer at the expense of the measures. Indeed, we all know well, including the proposer, that such a measure should simply restrict certain rights. Some of them have just been handed over by the Members of the National Assembly, and now let us cut them immediately. So it's not as simple as it seems at first sight. Any amendments to the Income Act will therefore need to be approached more carefully and slowly. In the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, the proposal concludes that the law is suitable for further consideration, so we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As the last on behalf of the parliamentary groups, Mr Robert Polnar, Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u203	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Public finances cover the entire structure of instruments and relations governing public funding from budgetary resources. The most important tax revenues of the state budget are value added tax, excise duty and income tax. The revenue is the third most important tax source of the state budget. Taxes are directly linked to the Institute of Authority and coercion. The country appears as the main institution and tax policy maker with its tax sovereignty. Tax sovereignty means the power and right of the tax authorities to determine and collect taxes from taxpayers. The management of the tax policy and tax system in modern countries is limited to the basic conflict in the interests of citizens who, on the one hand, want to reduce tax burdens while requiring the maintenance of the achieved scope of public services and social well-being. They even step up these requirements through economic and technological development. The permanent dilemma and the challenge in shaping the economic policy of a modern country is the fairness and justification of the State's intervention in redistribution of social product and in the functioning of the market mechanism. We have recently addressed a similar proposal in the National Assembly for changes in income legislation, such as today, which would reduce tax revenues by about €500 million. This time, the proposal would reduce tax revenues by around €330 million. Both proposals have a common feature. Completely undefined and value-added substitution effects. This time, too, solutions are being made to increase general relief and reduce tax rates. In addition, an increase in the limits of all income classes is proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, the expectation that the reduction in income will increase the purchasing power of the population and thus stimulated consumption, with which tax revenues will be compensated by higher value added tax revenues, is illustrative and without a real basis. Even in the case of today's proposal for a law, it is important to stress again. Income is a fundamental tax source of funding for local government. To the extent that it is so large and important, it is impossible to replace it with any other tax source. Those who say such a thing can be done with the imposition of a property tax simply demonstrate the overall luxury of their incompetence. So let's say directly. Declining income means an attractive political idea from a demagogic point of view, and from a practical policy point of view this is a direct attack on the financial autonomy of local self-government, in particular on the principle of coherence between financial resources and competences. We know that this principle is not respected in Slovenia. That we have only recently embarked on a path that promises that at least mid-term local government will no longer be financially "sub-capacitated". And there is absolutely no reason for us to start to undermine the established foundations. The focus of modern tax systems is, while covering the basic functions of the country, to provide incentives for accelerated economic development and the basic level of social rights of citizens. What is essential is the rationality of public expenditure. For this way the state can manage pressure on additional tax burdens, which could indirectly affect the deterioration of the competitive capacity of economic operators and the stability of development. On the basis of all that has been said in the Desus Group, we will not vote in favour of the law amending the Income Act being suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jože Tanko is given the floor as a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't think this government has much to trust. Even in such a simple matter as you have on the front page, opinions, there has been, as already one of the representatives of the positions of the groups here has warned, an accounting error. We are faced with government proposals that bring calculations to two decimals, but here is missing in the grave on the number, which I think is that if it went through so many deadlines and through such an important area as finance and at the end of the government that it is scandalous to make a mistake. The second thing is, the government and all of you, this law has absolutely nothing to do with decommissioning the economy. We didn't propose that. I don't know why the government put this in their opinion. It is likely that some of the members of the Group have relied on this. We have not proposed this, and our proposal is not a burden on the economy with this proposal, but a burden on the taxpayer, the taxpayer, that is to say, a million and a half people in this country who are being calculated by the country's income. That's all that was meant to be. And mixing the economic burden with this measure means complete ignorance. Perfect ignorance. Never before, my income has never been the one that would have affected the economy's burden. It can be bigger or smaller, but it affects only my personal or income position or the position of my family. This is all you've read from the opinion of the government in the positions of the parliamentary groups, nonsense. Here, Mr Polnar said that it would not be such that families or individuals would have more income after this proposal than they would have in government terms, that would mean that they would have more money each month and at the end of the year about 300, 350 euros more on average. If this means absolutely nothing to spend, then why don't you raise your income even so that we can pay more to the state for 300 euros. Will that affect your purchasing power or not? Probably such a positive measure for what happens to him, and that is a million and a half people in this country, means that he can spend more or save more, no matter where he spends that money. Otherwise, those of you who are so fond of public finances and all of you in the coalition may make an additional solidarity payment of 300 or 500 euros to keep the money in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Do this if you are so sure that this will not have any effect. Make the opposite example, and you will see whether this will affect your purchasing power or not. Everything you're saying about this is reckless and I think it's also irrational, it doesn't hold up a healthy judgment, an intellectual judgment, as mentioned earlier in Luke Moon. As regards these SMC stories and the error in the 2004-2008 tax reform. There was no mistake. In a situation similar to that of now that there has been great economic growth, when the situation of budget revenues has increased enormously, that government has taken an honest action and, as I said in my presentation, has made an effort to share the benefits of good economic growth between the economy, between the taxpayers and between the state. This meant that the cake produced by dynamics was divided into three, approximately three, due to development and so on. Fair enough. The situation we're in right now is about the same. Although projected economic growth is slightly lower for next year, there will be an additional new billion because the base is higher because it is built on a percentage of the account. This will happen again, in itself, after inertia. And we think it's fair that this cake gets distributed like that. The abolition of the tax on paid wages, respected to a colleague, was no mistake. In fact, we were the only country in Europe that had a tax on paid wages. It was a systemic anomaly, and it was as hard as that sticker that you had to buy when you registered the car and put it up, no one knows why. Nothing happened, and I'll say no harm was done. However, there was a great problem because the incompetent government, Borut Pahor's government, had come up for that government that had been waiting for the French-German train and had not taken completely any action. Han knows this, Mr Židan knows this, which is now the President of the National Assembly, nothing has been done at all, despite the calls of the economy, despite such and different matters. Nothing's done in this area, nothing, you've only raised your expenses for a billion and you've raised your debt. Well, look at the tables, you'll see. That was a mistake. Nothing's done. And criticise the government, which has taken appropriate measures for the situation it has been in, and be silent to the government, which has not taken any action in a new situation, while all other governments have taken it, is the least of which is intellectually unfair, intellectually unfair. Now you're saying that this country's drowning in solidarity, Mr. Han, is all about solidarity. What kind of solidarity does that refer to? [[advertising from the hall]] Not solidarity, not solidarity, Mr. Han. Look who's getting out of it. The one who didn't pay anything. That's not solidarity. Clearing of corruption in health or banking as well. This is solidarity, this is solidarity that you imagine? [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, you are solidarity with those who have done this, these holes in this state budget and in state property, because nothing is moving. You are now the fifth year of power, you have already been power since 2012 and nothing is happening, nothing is happening. Things stand, crime covered, things get old, but it's billions of dollars of recapitalisation and so on. Solid?? Mr Han, out of medical bills due to overpayments of material in health care and other matters about EUR 300 to 400 million per year, per year, per year. What did you do? You have protected the Minister until he was unconscious in this National Assembly in his previous term of office, until he was unconscious. You say where the money is. There's money. You put it back in the health system, you say, losses, 130, 140 million. Effect? A new 100 and so many millions after a few months of extra losses. Nothing's been resolved because the exhaustion mechanism is working. Nothing's done. You're telling me where the money's from, it's not balanced. We have 3 billion euros at our disposal. Another 2 billion 800 is in the European money budget for Slovenia reserved for pumping for projects. We spent two-thirds of that time and drained 15%. It has a connection because this money could be spent on investments and it would not have to be spent on state money for investment projects in municipalities, for state roads and so on, for sewerage and for other things. Of course he has connections, it's investment money. And instead of borrowing investment money from our resources and draining our people, we could draw this money and easily reduce the tax burden in classes, I don't know how many extra percentages of so many percentage points. That's it. You say, I don't know, for the price of the second track, the Americans came to Mars. And if by these methods you mastered, you'd be doing me a probe like that, you'd need 22, 23 annual budgets, and it wouldn't be enough. Look, we got a lot of stuff in our hands, and things don't move and nothing happens. All the sources you want. All the sources you want. The government has easily found 140 million for migrants, and now it's signing the second time, I think, after seven or eight million for the purchase of migrants. No problem. But when we come here with some proposal for our people, for firefighters, who are likely to cost a million and a half euros, there is nothing to be done. Nothing. Not systemically or completely, the government is preparing, and so on. I think it is a scandal that these governments, in which you are Mr Han after 2012, have only been thinking for seven years about what they will do. It's nothing, it's nothing. Look, it's nothing. Look. Mr Židan was Vice-President of the Government, but he did not once raise the issue of drawing European funds into the National Assembly or anywhere. We don't know this case. We called the meetings and so on, the lower officials went to these meetings, and the situation is as we have now discovered — nothing. And then you criticize the opposition, which proposes something. Why are they like that? Take a look at your own. Ask, do a little political introspection, say, look at you, and tell me what you missed and messed up. That's fair. And for the mistakes you have made in this period since 2008, no citizen of the Republic of Slovenia needs to be burdened, but draw from the funds where the money is parked. I must say that I think such cases as you are referring to and arguments for discrediting the opposition's proposals, especially ours, seem to me not to say scandalous. Now we have not proposed in this case the same law as before, it has been amended. Those of you who have managed to look at this will see that it is different. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, it is. He also has some other criteria. We didn't have a KD in there now, we added another thing, raise income classes and so on. You can laugh, but look, the time will come when these things will have to be seriously considered. The government will also have to propose something, because you don't just have to hide behind how much you're going to arm people and how much you're going to collect in the state budget. And one more thing, Mr. Han, you, your government and those governments that have now been created nothing. Nothing. Everything has created an economy, and everything you have or have grown has been added to the budget. And the same will happen next year because the economy is functioning until it can export as successfully as exports. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, see, the only problem is that after inertia, because such things are set up, in excise duties, in VAT, this only flows into the state budget. You know when the payments come in. It is mandatory to pay, market, excise duty is immediate, VAT is immediate or with a 15-day delay and so on, because we know all these things. And it is unfair that you own a state budget as your political party property. This isn't yours. It's from people. And if people have created overpayments to the state budget, it's right to get some of these overpayments back. That's all we talk about. And it's not a refund, it's a system that's being put forward. As far as Left's criticism of intellectual honesty is concerned, I do not know now whether it is intellectually fair that you have recently made an increase in your unemployment contribution of €95 per month in this mandate. Which means about a thousand 200 euros a year. And thus put more than 70,000 pensioners in a worse position than those who are unemployed. There are over 75,000 pensioners. There are over 20, 22 thousand of them who are 20 to 30 years of working age, but they do not have as much pension as the compensation for the unemployed you have legalized. By raising the minimum wage – I voted for it to be understood – you have further increased those who receive the minimum wage in this country by 30,000. About these intellectual stories and so on. And I think that in these things it is also necessary to be a little bit judgmental, fair to those who have created, to those who do – this is the economy and the employees – and we are only dealing with those who have income now. And there's one more thing. If it was intellectual honesty, then when you make these comparisons of income taxes, you might set an example for Austria. There the lowest income class is taxed at zero. Nothing. But we have — how much? 17%. Does that seem fair to you? The upper class – the lowest tax grade in Austria, like ours, is taxed at zero, at zero rates, and we have 17%. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, 16. 16. Now, let's compare these relationships. Does that seem fair to you? Not to say that the price of gas in Austria is 10% lower than we do, at least. Not to say that the Austrian vignettes are four times as much roads as they have are lower than ours. Does that seem fair to you? It's intellectually fair, don't you think? In Levica, in SD and in other coalition parties. We have less than 700 kilometers of highway, Austria 2 000 200, and the vineyards in Austria are cheaper than ours. Does anyone know how to explain that? Fuel in Austria is cheaper than ours. Thus, the rest of the cost of living is lower in Austria than in us. Not to say that the buildings are cheaper than we are. Go to Koroška. Why, do you think we have 9,000 people going out? A year. Or ten grand almost. This is not for Croatia and Hungary and so on, but for Austria, where "weak" tax policy and public standard is "extremely poor" but for Germany, where it is "even worse". Probably. That's why they're going to Germany because it's worse there than we are. And so on. Ask yourself a few questions about the policies you run. This policy will certainly not drive an additional thousand or 2,000 people across the border, but will hold them back. So far, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u206	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are now going to the general debate. The first one has the word, Mr Jože Lenart, and the mag is being prepared. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u207	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, in this Chamber, it was said that the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Sarca is not included in the debate and that even discussions are ignored. Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Šarca shall draw up a position on each proposal for a law and shall be based on professional grounds and on realistic grounds. This is what we say honestly and confidently, and that is what we stand for. But if we don't discuss it in the debate, it's because we don't see a reason to say the same thing over and over again. In particular, we do not comment when we make it clear that we are preparing our proposals for laws that are comprehensively addressing the content that we have set out in the Coalition Treaty. This is certainly the right of the government or duty. Dearly respected, when I have over these months counted the reduction in revenue on the basis of your VAT reduction proposals, the proposal for a Law on Taxes on Legal Persons, the Income Act and more, I have stopped counting in excess of a billion. And in the coming days, I'm definitely going to count this more accurately, because it's probably not over yet. On the other hand, we would like a lot of additional social transfers and assistance for a lot of areas. You keep reminding us of a fiscal rule that is not expected to be reached or breached because, in the first place, we paid for a higher minimum wage, on average, we kept the current transfer. So we put it where we can get it back based on the effects. Comrade Shircel, you are, your colleagues have said that you are the greatest expert in this House in this area. I would like us to go together to the representatives of the International Monetary Fund, to the representatives of the OECD, and to see who is right about these matters, as they have now been presented or are being done there. As an economic man, I wonder whether we are serious about this House or whether we are living in two worlds. You know, maybe that's something that some people don't understand the whole picture. But believe me, it doesn't appeal to those who understand that you can only share this and as much as you've created. The citizens who follow us will create a real picture for themselves, and there are no others. The important thing is that the government is moving forward at the pace we set ourselves. We have a lot of work to do and responsibilities to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u208	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jože Tanko as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament said that he had finished adding up to a billion. We have proposed a law on wine with financial effect nothing, we have proposed, just before, a law on firefighting, a maximum of €1.5 million and what we have proposed amounts to about €320 million. Far from a billion. So much for the correctness of your statements.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, get Mr. Robert Pavšič ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u211	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Of course, it may be controversial to talk about a fiscal rule on the one hand, but on the other hand, we are also talking about tax cuts. All those who may have doubts about these matters should be shown another legality in taxes, and perhaps also with the IMF representatives and the OECD, Mr Lenart, there is no problem at any time. I've talked to them many times before. I can talk to them again. The increase in workload – and in us, for example, we are talking about increasing the burden of contributions by means of income, so to speak – could mean a lower tax inflow. Why? Because it is easy in our case that there is no competition, there is no new investment, there is no jobs and therefore there are fewer taxes and contributions. That's what the so-called Laffer curve is talking about. That by increasing the burden, you reduce the financial impact, that's how it goes up. Here the theory is very clear about this and is often represented and there are no problems about it. In other words, there must always be some optimism about investing, increasing jobs and so on. It not only increases the number of jobs, but also the quality of jobs and saves income and, of course, also increases the tax inflows at lower rates. It's just the legality that is historically, you can look through different tax systems and you'll actually get to it somehow where that limit is now. In the field of labour taxation, as the government representative said, in 6th place of the OECD, we are very high. And this taxation of labour is one of the reasons why we have a highly skilled workforce outflow abroad. However, we have a low-skilled workforce, for less money and so on, and for that reason we are creating a smaller added value. And because you have data, statistics, 8 thousand, 8 thousand 500, you can look at what countries our people go to, what kind of education they go to. Engineers, computer engineers, doctors, nurses, short of a high education. And what exactly do we get? But it's actually taking us back. Comparably, with other countries, this is simply leading us backwards. So much for these general tax matters. Of course, I can talk, and I don't have that much time, and I won't talk for that long. Now for this proposal. Look, on the one hand, you're talking about that we have economic growth and that workers also have to have some of it. Look, with this proposal, the workers will have something, cash. It's the same thing or the same thing as giving the workers some kind of subsidy. It is always necessary to ask whether workers are given a subsidy or an unemployment grant or to increase some social benefits and so on or to encourage those who work in a different way to simply have a higher net salary. That country or society that wants to have a smaller impact on an individual will relieve people of excessive taxes. But that country that wants to have a big impact on an individual and wants to redistribute it will first pick up and then share. Of course, this is perfectly clear here. Here you all referred to some OECD data, a share of taxes on gross social product. 36 Slovenia, 38 OECD, are about such numbers. Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the averages of all taxes. And then the government writes what it's like to tax the labour force, but it's too high for us. But you didn't say that in the parliamentary groups, your professionals or yourself, whoever wrote it. But this information is misleading because it speaks of all taxes in GDP. GDP is already an already problematic category with multiple angles on one side and, of course, you put all taxes in, but you don't give, what is the taxation of work. And the taxation of work is too high. Now we can talk about contributions here, and we can talk about income, that is, these two represent the burden of work, that I am more professional, taxation is just income, and burden is a broader term. And here we actually have a problem, and we're talking about this problem for how long. If we want people to have something from economic growth, from development and so on, let us just give them more pay. This means this proposal. Yes, and Mr Han says you've been giving it this fifth and sixth times and so on. Yeah, we'll give it five more times and six more times. Maybe something's gonna happen. I can't help it. I don't know, repetition is the mother of wisdom, someone said. So that you can understand that you can't talk on one side about overburdening work and non-competitiveness because of this, and on the other hand, you can't just shrink in front of some proposals. When she proposed a change in income from Nova Slovenija and increased the overall relief to 7,000, I think that the proposal was around 7,000 euros to increase the overall relief. There is no proposal here, but there is an increase in general relief to 3 000 500. At that time, I was talking about the social income angle, the taxation of poverty, poverty in the sense that we have the poverty line of 7 000, and the overall relief of 3 000 300 or 3 000 500. In other words, we tax someone who has less than 7,000, which is the limit of poverty. Look, this is, I said then, unethical, immoral and so on and this is not supposed to be done by any country, this is general legality, take one way or another that goes beyond any financial effect. Austria has this limit of EUR 11 000, EUR 11 000 is a general relief in Austria. Other countries also take as a criterion of general relief for all the limits of poverty, for everything is taken from the poor to the rich, for everyone. What Levi says is that on the one hand, of course, one who has a high salary, of course more than one who has a lower tax. Yeah, we've got progression, respectable Left, we've got progression. And you want to have progression. From this you can be aware that mathematics is an exact science and is a higher percentage of the higher base in fact also more tax, however you take. Or, if you're lowering the tax, then less tax. But if you want to share, if you want to say no, everyone has to get 100, or everyone wants to get 200, and so on, it's pure state-owned conducting. This is what they went to in another system that's at the junkyard of history. I think it's best to erase it from your mind, the other system, purely from an ideological perspective. The government's opinion, the problem with this opinion, is that it actually rejects and says, restructuring. Now you, Madam Secretary of State, say, orise this restructuring of the masses. What are you gonna do? You're in charge of taxes at the Ministry of Finance. How will you restructure these taxes if you can tell me? Also, I don't know, but it's like a coalition contract, but you can say something specific. There's talk of some different taxes coming out and so forth. What are you gonna do? The Prime Minister was talking about increasing taxes on profits, the Minister of Finance on real estate taxes, and someone else was talking about a change in income again. But come on, you're the main person for taxes at the Ministry of Finance in this government, you're creating a tax policy and let us not tell you exactly, nothing rates, just what you're going to do. Increase the property tax, increase the capital tax, reduce it? Look, this is a restructuring if you're talking. But let me tell you, you tell me that I'm not guessing here right now, and I'm saying what could be. Not only do you talk because, see, former Minister Vraničar Ermanova also talked about the restructuring of taxes. We have been talking about tax restructuring in the National Assembly for two years. Now I would ask you if you could tell me what you're going to do with certain types of taxes. Look, those we have, very generally, don't have to go to taxes on citizens and those taxes on weekends, leave that alone, that's too much precision to say. What are you going to do with income tax, income tax, contributions, property taxes, capital taxes, VAT and property taxes in this restructuring? Are you going to take any off? Give content to your words. That's what I'd like to ask you to give here and now the content of this tax restructuring. I don't think people know what tax restructuring is. Tell people, I don't have to. So let the people know. What does that mean for the economy? Yes, the economy will, of course, be subject to the contracts they have with the employees, these contracts are gross and, of course, will still pay so much and so in gross amounts. It's just some pre-condition in line with the contracts and so on. You wrote that it does not directly mean reduction, but indirectly may have an impact on the reduction or on the increase if there are higher wages. We'll allow it to be higher wages. You say it's not the most important thing. Taxes are not the most important thing for competitiveness. Please give the ranking, Madam Secretary of State – this is what you wrote in your opinion, I quote only – let me tell you what is even more important for competitiveness than taxes. Then perhaps you should make some sort of order, or it is that order that is given by the World Trade Organization, or there is another order, if you can here, please. The second question is if you can state what is most important to the economy. The simplicity of business, say, or something like that, because we have a lot of these criteria. This would also ask you how you treat, what are the elements of the competitiveness of the economy, because that is, of course, what you write here in your opinion. Also, you're preparing, somewhere you say, a complex reform and so on. I think Mr. Lenart is talking about complexity. I hope, too, that Mrs State Secretary will explain to you what this complex reform will mean, any words you use here already, but give a little more precision, this would really ask you. So far, I've got so much. I would say that this opinion of the Government you wrote here, the parliamentary groups from it only take what suits them. And this opinion of the Government is to some extent incorrect, because it is unilaterally also in the transmission of statistics, international statistics, and you do not tell what the share of taxes in GDP means. You can also give a share of the tax, a share of the income or a share of the social security contributions in all taxes. Let's say that would be one important piece of information. The OECD has it, too. Much more so than the one you're listing right now. You also have this information in OECD statistics. This will show how much work in this case is burdensome in Slovenia compared to other countries. Share of contributions and share of income in all taxes. I'd like to ask for more explanations from the government if I can get them.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert Pavšič has the floor and Mrs Monika Gregorčič should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u213	Thank you, President, for your word. The last question comes to mind with a number of factors affecting the competitiveness of the environment, but they have nothing to do with taxes, direct, this is knowledge, relation to the environment, flexibility of bureaucracy, logistics, but not cheap labour, this never leads to the competitiveness of the environment. But that's just my opinion. Well, for the last couple of months we've been going around the same hot mess and we're just going to run out another circle, and I'm happy to take part in this because new horizons are opening up to me and I'm extremely grateful for it. But I am surprised that, you yourself mentioned the New Slovenia proposal, which would make it easier to raise to €7,000, a general relief, you would now raise to about €3,000,500. It seems to me that we've been doing this lately, or are we going to bid now, where this is going to somehow fit in, we're assessing over the finger. I don't know. I don't think that's fair. In the argument we have heard a great deal that we have a socialist approach. I think we have the social approach provided by our country or our Constitution. We have to make sure we stay a social state, and that costs something. That it's a matter of enriching the country if it doesn't lower taxes. I think it's the other way around, this country far from being rich. It has good people, it has huge potential, but it's not rich, because we see this every day, because we're driving through the dirt roads, cops are being paid off, nurses are being paid off, almost the whole public sector is being bribed. And that's what, now with these slight surpluses trying to eliminate these injustices that have been brought about by the global economic crisis and the financial crisis, but now it's trying to calm down and get into some homogeneous normal environment. We're talking about the government's opinion. A hundred days. A hundred days and in these hundreds of days, it is expected that the whole system, which is connected and extremely sensitive, will now be packed here in one folder with countless solutions. No, he needs a little more time because now is not the time to experiment. But if we raise the general tax relief a little bit, it will bring more spending, and that money will come back. This economic theory exists, but it hasn't been proven anywhere. And I do not think that Slovenia, given the state in which it is at this point, can undergo a tax experiment because we need stability in particular. And that is why it provides both a fiscal rule and this institution, and not least you as the opposition, is good, government control must be, what is being done and what is being proposed and what is being done. In hundreds of days, however, it is impossible to expect that the Government will prepare all the tax restructuring proposals, but I am now thinking of taking on such capital, work, property, real estate into some fair restructuring, not by having a balance sheet over everything, but by hitting those who are already one of the most under attack in this country. Health care, $3 billion a year will go to health care so that we can have a healthy society so that we can believe in our health system. This is what all citizens and citizens deserve. And that's something to be paid for. Labour legislation is also linked to all of this. It needs radical changes in order to facilitate both the entry of workers into the labour market and employers who encounter a lot of anomalies in the labour legislation, they need to be eliminated, but not by hand again, because rapid solutions usually only bring even greater problems. It may be a relief for a short time, but it's not for long. And then in the end, the restructuring of social policy. All of this, however, must be taken into account, as I have already mentioned, fiscal rule — we must not spend more than we have or have to save more. I've got a few more things in store, and I'm not going to, because I'm just going to trigger more controversy, and it actually doesn't make sense. But what I wanted to say was that you can talk until you get dark in front of your eyes. But I think our future is bright. I'm sure if you didn't, I wouldn't be sitting here. Of course, it will have to work hard, it will have to be recalculated, overplayed, analyzed all these possible models together with everyone, and then we will be able to bear some collective responsibility for what we will accept, and also the consequences, especially political ones. And speaking of political introspection, I don't think it's in the meantime, unless it's reciprocal. It has to be mutual, or it doesn't make sense. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u214	It's a replica. Mr. Ambassador, please, you have time for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u215	Thank you very much, President. I would only have spoken to Mr Pavšić, who also spoke substantively about what I was saying, but perhaps he did not understand me quite well. An additional explanation concerning the hundreds of days, Mr Pavšič. I assure you that the Ministry of Finance already has all this in its drawers. Madam Secretary of State, don't ask questions or wait for them to tell you at the Ministry of Finance, but it takes us six months and three months, and nine months, I don't know what, it's all done, it's all in drawers, it's all in files. Tax on real estate made in 20 variants, just set the rates. Don't think there's anything technical to be done. All of this has been done for 10, 15 years, including effects of increasing, reducing rates by one percentage point, two reliefs and so on. Mr. Pavšič, a hundred days doesn't mean that you're here now and that you've started everything new and from nothing. I assure you, I assure you that everything has already been done in the Ministry a hundred times, five hundred times, and I don't know how many times. Just take the right file out and the right option, and the one you're going to get politically together, you're going to have it all. So much for time.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u216	Thank you. Now Mr Jože Tanko as a proposaler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Just two explanations. Mr Pavšič, this law has absolutely no effect on the medical treasury because the contributions there do not change anything. So much for this understanding. And second of all, that's what it is. Now, if the Government has not proposed anything, Members may. You also proposed the Government Act and the State Administration Act. Take it into your hands, prepare a solution, and invest. If you can make up a government and expand secretarial posts, you will also prepare a law on income. If it is as easy as you think it is for the opposition, it is even more so for you because you also have all the databases online that we do not have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u218	Thank you. Do you have a replica? Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u219	Thank you for the opportunity to explain. Health care has nothing to do with income, but it has a budget. And if the health department runs out of money, it's also dependent on the budget and not just on the health department. It could happen right now. So everything is, I've been talking about the whole system. The whole system is sensitive and covers all the expenditure incurred by the State, as well as any revenue incurred by the State. In this context alone, I have mentioned health care, not that it is directly related or in any way related to health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you. Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u221	Thank you very much. It is necessary to be precise in these expressions. The health treasury has its full independent funding resources and the Income Act or the reduction of tax income rates has no impact on the health cash flows. Nothing. And nothing in the inflows to the pension register, nothing at all. Only the inflow into the state budget is reduced and more remains to the population.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u222	Now we move forward in order, which is very thin. Ms Monika Gregorčič has the floor and Mr Marko Pogačnik is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u223	Good evening, and thank you so much for your word. For the beginning of my debate, it is correct to say that the Proposal for a New Law on Income has a good solution, which is by no means new. Let me wake up the memory. The so-called partial tax restructuring has already been carried out by the past government and has burdened part of the wages. So we have all been paid higher wages within the framework of our current public financial capabilities. But it was somehow noticeable, from somewhere between 10 and 50 euros it was this increase. The fact that former Minister Vraničar Ermanov spoke only of this restructuring and did nothing but endure. It was something that was done. I agree, however, that in this direction, in this coalition, this government must continue in this mandate, which this coalition is certainly aware of, which we have also written in the end of the coalition agreement. Let me just read it. Under the challenge of decommissioning wages, the measure states: “In accordance with the public financial options, we will reduce the burden of wages by means of income or by raising general income relief or by any intervention in the income scale and classes, with the proposal being prepared on the basis of a prepared professional analysis of the entire income system and related areas.” Let me say here that your proposal is prepared quite broadly, so you propose a reduction in general income relief as well as an intervention in the income scale and wage, income classes. It is true, however, that this measure is not provisionally defined in the Coalition Treaty. In the first three months of the government, we devoted ourselves to the most vulnerable social groups, which is to say, we arranged social assistance, raised minimum wages. I certainly expect the time to come in 2019 when the government, the Ministry of Finance, must also address this challenge. Of course, it must address the issue to be financially sustainable in the sense that the financial implications will be such that the budget transfers them. From this point of view, the implementation of the law, such as that proposed by you, is one. 1. 2019, totally unrealistic. I'd be a real timer. Therefore, here the proposal to the Ministry to use 2019 to prepare analyses, calculations, possible counter-measures and also negotiations with all stakeholders, as well as to adopt all the acts and implement the necessary acts in 2020, perhaps 2021, if it is necessary to assess that a gradual implementation will be necessary. I would still be referring here to the observation or position expressed by the leftist Group that such a way of lowering the tax burden on wages would bring the most to those with higher wages. Yeah, it's true. But it is important to know that – as I have already pointed out – this government, at the beginning of its mandate, has also addressed the most vulnerable social groups, arranged a minimum wage, social assistance, and now it is time for the entire population to, in fact, all employees to somehow get higher wages. Those who will receive a somewhat greater increase are not only members of the boards, those who are contentious employees for you, but mainly experts, highly educated engineers, informatics, all who create high added value and contribute to the competitiveness of our economy. This will also make it easier for employers to maintain these jobs in Slovenia or even attract new jobs to us. So much for an explanation. If we call it that, some sort of balancing device will be reduced, and these jobs will become more attractive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u224	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Now here's the thing. You have the floor, Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik and Mrs Jerca Korča as the last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u225	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we have tabled a proposal for a law amending the Income Act for one reason only, to relieve citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth must also be known in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and, on the other hand, we are potentially burdening the economy. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the salaries of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must be raised, but not at the expense of the additional burden of the economy, but at the expense of reducing the tax burdens which are too high in Slovenia. Those who say that the tax burdens in Slovenia are not too high, I am only interested in one matter. Then why does FURS send additional bills to migrant workers working in Austria? Only because the tax burdens in Slovenia are higher than in Austria and FURS requires payment of the difference between what workers working in Austria have paid in Austria and what they have to pay in Slovenia. If the income scale in Slovenia were the same as in Austria, then migrants working in Austria would not have to pay an additional tax in Slovenia. I think that's clear to everyone, and let's face it. The biggest obvious thing was, you're lowering your budget revenue, let's throw it aside, that's not the point. Look, a respected coalition, if you continue this policy in the future, Slovenia and Slovenia are not doing well. Because you need to see even more than one tree, you need to see the forest. You can't say, but now we can't support this change because it's reducing, I'd say, budget revenues. There will indeed be lower budgetary revenues at a certain level, but you have to make sure that the revenues are higher. Not only on account of you, I would say, from month to month, from year to year, will you impose additional burdens on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The 3 billion European funds lie on the ground that both the previous government and probably the current government cannot collect. After two months, we're replacing the Minister of Cohesion. Tax debt, respected secretary of state, 1.3 billion euros. Approximately 15% of the revenue of the Slovenian budget is tax debt. Let us make some effort only with European funds and in the fight against tax debt. Just don't tell me the number's going down. Because you don't, Madam Secretary of State. It's getting bigger. This coalition is similar. Same as the previous government. In fact, you have all your things prepared. Excise policy is inadequate. For example, why is a thousand litres of heating oil in Celovac 200 euros cheaper than in Ljubljana, Murski Sobota, Škofje Loki, Kranju, Koper? Why? Because Slovenia has significantly higher excise duties than Austria. Why is the letter of oil in Austria cheaper today than in Slovenia? And citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, those who have the opportunity, go to Austria. And this fills the Austrian budget, fills Austrian public school, Austrian health care. Let's do this the other way around. Let's lower our excise duties and do, I'd say, this tourism again. Whoever comes to the gas station doesn't just load the car, probably buys something else, maybe goes to the restaurant. You need to look a little wider here. The former government boasted many times about what they had done. They didn't do anything. What created the economy was eaten and drank by the previous government. 1.5 billion more tax revenues than in 2014. This has created an economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. What has this government done? Proud of a reduction in your tax debt. That's not true. Tax debt is lower in gross domestic product structure because GDP has grown on account of the economy. At the end of the government of Mira Cerar, the net tax debt was about 1 billion more than at the beginning of the government of Mira Cerar. Where did you put that money? Where did you put this money, your honor and respect? I am sure that Slovenia needs a fundamental tax reform. In particular, the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia need to be unloaded. Higher revenues create only new jobs. The new jobs are filled with the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, filling the health treasury, pension register. And that's the only way. Not that you're burdening the economy. Today, not only those who have this possibility living along the border with Austria are going to work in Austria, but we can testify in the recent period that more and more entrepreneurs and economists are deciding to move their business to Austria or Italy. Only because these countries offer them more favourable conditions. Dear coalition, I'm sure you have a lot of maneuvering space here. It is right to create a social policy in one part as well, but I am sure that with this social policy, as you are implementing it, you will expel working people from Slovenia. Today, it is sad that those who work have roughly the same income as those who do not. And this was created by this coalition and by the previous government. You have an inadequate policy towards entrepreneurs and working people. And here we have to make changes. The funds, as I have already mentioned, are a European asset, a tax debt and, above all, it will be necessary to start thinking that we will not only have a progressive income scale but that we will also have to decide on a level of regression and thus attract people with more capital and higher income. Why is the middle class strong in Austria? Only because they have an extremely rich population there, which also creates for the middle layer. The medium layer then maintains a favourable social policy. Today, in Slovenia, this middle class is being destroyed at the expense of the left governments. Who suffers the most in Slovenia? The one with the average wage. A family that has so-called two average wages. They are not entitled to any benefits, to no social transfers and have the smallest. This is where you kill families with average income. Dear Secretary of State, you wrote that tax legislation has no great influence. Look, every entrepreneur, every investor, when deciding which country he's going to go to, will first check out what tax policy is. And if the tax policy is inconvenient, he will choose another country. That means he's gonna open up new jobs there. Many countries around us have also reduced taxes in recent years. Croatia as well as Switzerland. Austria has made a thorough tax reform in the last year and the effects of this tax reform are known mainly in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Austria, in new jobs. And another case, a respected secretary of state, tax policy is not important. One of the reasons why Cristiano Ronaldo decided to leave Madrid for Turin is Italian tax legislation. The resident of Italy can pay only EUR 100 000 for revenues made abroad. In Spain, however, this tax was 40%. Here's the important thing. The tax policy of the former government and this government is inadequate.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word is given by Mrs. Jerca Korce, and the last on the current list is Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Again, we have a proposal that New Slovenia has made a little different for a while. This proposal of yours brings 326 million less into the state budget. This is a fact given by the Government in its opinion. We agree that tax relief is necessary, but in the context of a broader social agreement. Even more important than these numbers is that we finally accept in the broader social agreement what kind of society we want to live in, what kind of country we will develop. If we have decided on a solidarity model, and I hope that we have decided on such a model, then a tax reduction, and what I heard in your debate, how Ronaldo moved because they are more tax-friendly environments. But we want a society in which someone can have 30 Ferraris, but someone doesn't want to survive, we want a society like this, or we want a society where we don't do balancing, but we want to get closer to things. It is said that the worker has a decent salary, as well as a director, and also one who absolutely deserves a higher salary, but not an enormous higher salary. That's kind of how I picture it. The quality of life in the country is not conditioned only by how much it falls into our pocket. Of course, if you're on social assistance, if you're so poor that it's hard to get through a month, I agree, it really doesn't allow quality of life, but for this middle class you're talking about, it's not just how much it's leaking into our pocket, because the country is funding a lot of things: public education, public health, roads, homes for the elderly, etc. I think we have in Slovenia, although you're saying that Slovenia and Slovenians are not well-written, here is what I wrote down because I was most disturbed, Slovenia and Slovenia writing quite well. If we look at the global, if we know how to set up a system and correct certain other shortcomings, we can say that we live well. Not all of us, of course, have some poor people and we have to work for them and create even stronger solidarity. This is my thinking, and I know that we are very different here in some conceptual way, but I think the quality of life that we have to give to citizens must be financed and not reduced. Where are we going to take these 326 million euros to go out on this account? Where are we gonna get them? In dental care? In that we're going to have to pay for the delivery? I don't know where you'd go. That's what we always ask. But if we take away some kind of inflow into the budget, we need to be aware of where we are going to take it, whether it will be by reducing the rights of our citizens, who we say are already too low in one way or another. And maybe I'm that younger of a generation. At the beginning of the discussion I listened to some kind of political pinkpoon, what we did, and there were bank holes and there was an Iranian money laundering and there was an affair TES 6 and many other affairs that were in our country. I agree, but we're going to have a hard time backing up, except with criminal charges and the search for responsibility. I absolutely agree here, but some of the compensation responsibilities for those huge amounts of missed investments in our country are probably never going to be achieved. Therefore, it is vital that we be careful in advance, not always worrying about what the government has done, what the government has not done. Let's take a closer look. I'm also in communication with the finance minister, and I'm not an economist, but I'm far from numbers, and I've come up with a vision of how to create a payload. So I expect that we will do something in this area, but not at all, and never at the expense of doing a budget deficit that will result in our citizens being reduced and reduced by some rights acquired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u228	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. You got a replica, and then you got a prop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u229	Dear President, thank you. A colleague who has spoken now, with all due respect for her, but doesn't have one day of work in the economy. Once she's gone, I'd say sleep with claims once she's gone to sleep in the economy, then she'll probably understand these discussions that we've had here today. I'm sure those who create fill the budget. I'll thank the economy for paying me. But the fact is, 30 Ferraris were mentioned. I would be very happy if someone in Shenchure had, say, 30 Ferraris, because he would pay a very large tax on the budget because he would pay the value added tax on the budget. I'm sure kindergarten would be significantly lower in Shenchure. The rich support the budget. We can't shut these people's doors. We must open these people's doors, revered. The one who spends, the one who creates pays the tax. Calculate how much entrepreneurs pay tax in cash. That's right, those who can't, we have to create social policy. But we can't go inside these people and say, "That's the wrong policy." All the same, all the poor, that's the fact, we've seen this before. Let us look at countries with strong social policies. They have crazy economic growth and everything. The economy is the one that creates social policy, not the other way around. And you're suppressing it. Calculate 30 Ferraris, so how much tax is that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u230	There's no replica. But there is a desire for the proposer to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u231	Thank you very much. When you talk about a broader social agreement, you had the opportunity at your previous meeting to adopt some amendments to the laws that had a major impact on one part of Slovenian society, but you were not looking for any broader social agreement. These passwords come into your mind and only when we suggest something. Now that you're talking about the social state, the question is, isn't Austria a social state? Is Germany a social state or is it not a social state? Austria, for example, what we have already said, and this can also be confirmed by the Secretary of State, has a zero rate of income tax for the lowest income class. Now I ask you which is the more social state, or ours, who taxes you up to 8 thousand incomes with 16%, or Austria, which taxes you up to 11 000 with 0%. These passwords are completely declassified because neither a wider picture nor the content nor the way in which one country works or another country is known. With regard to the rights acquired, however, we must enable the taxpayer to benefit from better taxation or a better solution. And if the income classes and taxes in these classes are better than the ones we propose, I don't think he'll have any of those who are paying income now, any problems with the battle for the rights he's acquired. Except for the ethicist, it's the one who advocates an endlessly powerful state. And there are, I see, almost 60 of you in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u232	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And the word is yours, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u233	Thank you, President. Now in this debate, I ask myself what is better, what is better, what is better, that we are all poor, and we are happy that we have social security, because the difference between working or not working is relatively small, or that we are all successful in our best interests. These are two very simple concepts. I get the feeling all too often that some of you want to compete down in the game to equalize everything and that we're all poor, but we'll all be taken care of. While developed European countries are competing mainly on how to make such a mix of measures with their tax system and business environment that they will attract people to be as creative as possible. And if they don't have them at home, scientists, developers, developers, if I tell them to, they decide to come to this country. Slovenia is very bad at this. Look, 8,000 highly educated people go abroad every year. Do you know what the cost is for the country? You, who are egolists, who would all compete in a competition for total poverty, ask each year about 8,000 people who were educated in colleges, and then probably also in masters and PhDs, how much the state paid for their education. Every year, year after year. And then this amount that we all taxpayers paid, and this knowledge that was created on the basis of this amount, goes to another country and there brings profit, which because of the lower tax rates more in the pocket also brings this educated individual. Who lost here? Slovenia lost here. We've all lost. But when a proposal comes out, let's make a more stimulating tax environment at home, but the egalists get upset and say, "No, let's all have the same little." The government's coordinator, I think two days ago, said here in front of the National Assembly that the Left defines the color of this government. In one national television talk, the government coordinator announced a number of new budget expenditure that the government will confirm because it depends on the votes of the super-coalic party Levica. So you have a story that already predicts the new fiscal burden of all of us, each of us. Those with lower incomes will find them more difficult to afford than those with higher incomes. You coalition members of the far left government will be more able to afford them than those who are difficult to break through from day to day. But when a proposal comes to the table that would mean partial tax restructuring, you're against it. See what the government says in the opinion. I quote: “The government is aware that the burden of work is a factor that has a negative impact on competitiveness between tax measures” – I have talked about this – “which is also demonstrated by the OECD study, which shows that the burden of work is problematic in at least two aspects, putting pressure on the cost of work and the deterioration of the international competitiveness of businesses and thus of the country, as well as the risk of increasing the grey economy.” This was written by the Ministry of Finance or confirmed by the Government. They gave the right diagnosis. They said that what you do when you increase the workload is bad for competitiveness, for international competitiveness and for the risk of increasing the grey economy. All we all agree is that cancer is the wound of this country and that it needs to be regulated. And what is the result of this conclusion? No, we're against it. No, we're against it. The government also writes: “The highest share of social security contributions to the tax gap in Slovenia.” What have you done recently? You've increased. There you can, in one area — what do you say? That you can't. Earlier, a colleague of Corca said that we have a proposal on the table, which at the expense of reducing people's rights has some work to do. Now I think what in this proposal is a reduction in people's rights, if the main measure is to quote the proposal by the proposer, that is, us, "decreasing income rates, increasing general relief and raising income class limits would give the worker an average salary of about €45 more per month". Anyone who works with an average salary would get 45 euros more in his wallet every month. Tell me where the reduction of rights is. Let one of you pick up the phone and tell me where the downsizing is. I don't know what this reduction of rights is for Mrs Korča if every 45 euros is more in her wallet. And then he decides what he's going to do with these 45 euros: whether he's going to put in the third pillar of pension insurance, or whether he's going to afford, I don't know, a little more expensive clothes, or whether he's going to say, because now I've got 50 euros more a month, I can afford a higher loan, or he'll decide to switch windows and the economy will roll. In this way, the window manufacturer will have more orders, give more profits to his employees at Christmas, have more than €50 employees at Christmas, and say they can now go to thermals. And the tourist company will have an additional influx of guests. They will have a Christmas break next year and the economy will spin, as is usually the case with these things. But some of you will, of course, put these high school socks on. Good. But the rest will probably spend more. Government, I will not say government, especially coalition Members, on the basis of your debate, I will say, very patronizing to taxpayers or to those who work. You believe that the state, the government, knows significantly better how to invest money than any individual. So you know much better if you take 50 more euros from each of us than you do if you get that 50 more in your wallet. That's not true. You know best what's good for you. And this is the best way you can take care of yourself. Look, you've recently added 100 euros more compensation to the unemployed. Great, we all sign. You raised those with a minimum wage, I think after these multiple rounds for 60 euros more. You've given public servants €306 million more. No problem. You're bragging about it. For all of them, there are 860 thousand public servants, who work, who create, and on average no more than 50 euros per month. Even more! You're saying that these increases are being done at the expense of diminishing the rights of others. And I don't know who your logic is. If by this logic man leads the country – I don't know where we're going, well. From your discussions, as well as from the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, I can then describe the opinion or thinking of this extremely left-wing government with scissors. Look, you're always against lowering budget revenues. You will always vote against something that would mean lowering budget revenues. But Priori will be the reason and we're against it. We don't want to have less in the budget, we want to take all the taxes. We will. With some linear thinking that doesn't calculate that money gives money to the economy to turn the economy, and when a person has enough money, he probably puts it in socks less than when he has little. When the economy turns around, it's also easier to spend, and when it's more expensive, the economy turns around, and so on, spirals up, not down, which is what you're fighting for. However, you are always in favour of increasing budget expenditure. That's me. However, if there is a measure that increases budgetary expenditure, this is always the case. For one simple reason, because this gives you power over those who benefit from this budget expenditure. The more the government has to share, the more important it feels. And to get more money from taxpayers' wallets, he has to raise taxes. And when he raises taxes, he's got more money, he's more important, and they get real companies, they get real groups. But those who create, you'll squeeze a little bit more. Now we give it to them, now we give it to them, you come last. And you have no problem, really, no problem when you start new ministers. The coalition needs to be arranged in order for you to come together, you're a six-member coalition. You don't have a problem calling six new Secretaries of State. No problem. State secretaries should be co-ordinated by State secretaries. And even you will submit, if I am not mistaken, this law on government, you Members, to settle it. But when the question comes to people that they will make up their minds — no, no, no, we will not, we have given a tone to this government, and we do not allow people to live on their own, to decide for themselves how to spend money, because we know better than they do. And see if we have the right diagnosis given by the Ministry of Finance, that the biggest rakrana is labour taxation, both for competitiveness, for international competitiveness and for the grey economy, if the government itself finds that the biggest part of these burdens for social contributions and that it is necessary to restructure, here in the coalition you tell us, "let's think about it in 2019, let's do all the analysis, let's find out why we can't do it." Here you have one example, very simple, which will not be as wasteful as you think, when the time is right, the time of a period of conjuncture, which can drive this wheel economy forward to support it in the first reading. It can then also be amended, however, you can extend the date, but not by providing some ideology that kills competitiveness in this country, as the Ministry of Finance says, international competitiveness, promotes a grey economy. Not for the sake of one coalition partner, which is obviously against, then block this law in parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Natalija Kovac Jereb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the issue of government and the Ministry of Finance regarding tax restructuring. In the first half of 2019, the government is preparing a set of different measures aimed at tax restructuring in order to relieve as wide a range of taxpayers as possible. We also want to attract social partners and political partners to this tax restructuring through substantive proposals, because we are essentially going to restructure the workload. We are aware that, in fact, workers' labour costs are too burdensome, but once workers' labour costs are burdened, they must also be known in the wallets and in the transaction accounts of workers. Thus, if on the one hand we relieve the costs on the part of the employees, the cost of working in companies will also be reduced, and this is supposed to translate into income on the employee’s accounts. As regards tax burdens on corporate income tax. Slovenia has a nominal tax rate of 19% of legal persons' income, and effectively, as we calculated 12,6%. On this side, the State has some room to increase these rates of corporate tax. The question was also whether we were still working on the property tax. The Ministry of Finance, on the professional basis of the real estate tax, continues to make it important for the correct tax base that, in essence, the data resulting from the mass valuation of real estates are correct and that we are also coordinating with the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Infrastructure on data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Now Mr Jože Tanko's representative has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u237	Thank you very much! First, I must say that I am disappointed that the government representatives come, read five minutes in the beginning and then take a few minutes to finish. This concludes their role in the legislative process in such cases. I think it's unserious and irresponsible. The bill was here, I expected that the government, the secretary of state, would be involved in the debate, correcting our mistakes or misstatements, wrong views, and, of course, other parliamentary groups, especially coalition groups, because apparently some of them are more than enough to read, do not even go into the subject or in the proposal they have on the agenda or on the table. I am, I must say, very disappointed with the comments, the explanations, especially the views of the parliamentary groups. The only bright exception here in the coalition debate was Monica Gregorčič, who had a very correct discussion with dilemmas and concerns. But that's the way it is. Here we are. As far as this proposal is concerned. I said in the beginning that the proposal is being implemented with 1. 1. 2019, not backwards, but forwards. And I also said that further economic growth would be there 3 plus percent, or about 3 percent, and that this would be because the percentage is going to go forward, an additional billion euros in the state budget, if this dynamic takes place. 300 million from what will come next year would be earmarked for this proposal of ours. Is that true, Madam Secretary of State? Is that what it says? I now ask whether this is an amended proposal in terms of the citizen's contribution to economic growth. Companies are exempt from this proposal, and we have not dealt with this, because some other mechanisms need to be used and some broader agreement really needs to be reached. However, in this case, when the partner is only a taxpayer and a state, we can do this. We do not need any broader negotiations and no broader social consensus to do so. These are only two partners, the state, the Ministry of Finance, the government that is watching over the implementation of the budget, and we who are deciding on what the tax rate will be. I am sure that our proposal for the situations in which we are and what they will be next year is certainly very correct. Let me just remind you. We made a tax reform in 2006. In 2007, we had EUR 919 million of income from income, and in 2009, when it was completely seized, we had a billion. This is said to have increased the income by 88 million euros. The 2007 VAT was collected by 2 billion 910 million and 2009 by 2 billion 840, which is said to have fallen by 70 million. But the total balance was still plus 18 million for the state budget, even though we systematically unloaded everything. This confirms the claim that lower taxes and more payers mean a greater impact in the mass of the state budget because higher than taxes is more grey or black economy. That's a logical consequence. This happened everywhere, and so did we. You're having a social debate. If we allow people to have a higher net balance between their incomes or their accounts, this strengthens their social security. There is no need for the state to do anything to make them more socially secure. You let them have more money to cover their needs. The social state, which you are defending, is a state social state, ethism, if I say so, means that everything needs to be collected, then set tens of thousands of people in between to deal with it and then share it in faces, forms and so on. In the meantime, 30% is lost for wages, 30% is lost unknown to where, and 30% of what is lost in every socialism then comes to those final purposes. I don't think this concept of high taxes is good. On the contrary, it is much better, much more effective, much more people take care of themselves, their family, for the development of their business, even for their singing and so on, as if all of this is not possible and is not possible in this way. As for resources, respected, in addition to economic growth, which will bring an additional billion to the budget next year, you have 18 million in the Karavanken Tunnel, you have 700 million on the second track, you have a whole bunch of ballasts in the budget, which you don't even know what the money is, but it's only there, and then it's lost for various projects, such or different, such and different companies. There's a lot of money in the budget, a whole bunch of deaf items that the government then redistributes for its own purposes. I don't think there's any problem with doing this, and I don't think you have any support for such a proposal. I recommend that you support the proposal to make your proposals for a second reading, that the Government also give its proposals and we will eventually make one suitable law for our citizens. A million and a half are those who will benefit from this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u238	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate remains, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Since there is no interest, we are concluding the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 7.45 p.m. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 19.15 and resumed at 7.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u239	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, with the assembly voting on the following order: 6, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 14, 12, 1, 27 and 24 items on the agenda. Members and Members, please check the voting devices. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the cross-border provision of services under the regular procedure. We will vote on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cross-border Service Implementation Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 37. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on intervention measures in the handling of municipal waste packaging and waste grave candles by emergency procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 18. 12. 2018, published on the e-club. First, we turn to the decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, DeSUS and SAB to Article 16b of Article 1. And the note – if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group becomes irrelevant to the same article. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 4. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, SMC, DeSUS and SAB to Article 16b under Article 1 has been adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to the same Article under Article 2 has become irrelevant. With this, honourable Members and Members, we have ended the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 16b of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Since there are no proposals, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. On behalf of the SDS Group, I give the floor to Mr Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u240	Nice greetings to all present! We told the SDS Group yesterday that we would not oppose the law, but we would be prepared to support it if an amendment was to be adopted talking about the deadlines in which the chosen persons should take away the waste packaging or candles. Therefore, an amendment in third reading should be tabled because it is a formal procedure. This was also publicly agreed yesterday by the Minister in the debate on the amendments. Let me quote him. Minister Leben said yesterday: "Now a little more as regards these 30 days in the amendment. I hear you, me and the team overplayed it, things would drink water, but we should change it a little. Since this is large amounts of money, the European call for money will be published. “ Here, the only solution is to agree that when we select a person to drive, we will give him 30 days to take it away. [[…]] I think that in this way we will speed up the process and that we can find a compromise here somewhere, of course in balance, so that this law is adopted in a broader context.” On the basis of these words, I have announced that we are ready to amend this amendment, so that in a certain part we delete further text related to the inspection decisions, but later the LMŠ colleagues informed me that the coalition has changed its mind and that it is not ready to accept such a solution. I think it's a bad decision because there's no time in the marriage. We have proposed this amendment because those present on the committee have pointed out limited storage options for this packaging, and they have warned that once the inspection has done its work, which will have to be done very quickly by law, within ten days of the entry into force of the law, this package will not be allowed anywhere until the chosen contractor has taken it. But we know that new quantities of packaging will be coming, and it can be that there will be a problem that may be even bigger than the one we are facing today. I believe that this time frame would not fully address this problem, but I would still force these decisions and procedures to be quicker. That was also the purpose of this amendment. Now that there is no such thing, of course, we cannot support this law, so that the coalition itself will adopt this law and assume responsibility for everything that comes out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. In doing so, I note that we can move to a vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Domestic Supplement Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a household allowance law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receivers. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly of the proposal has not adopted the decision and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on kindergartens. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on kindergartens is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. (For the vote was 33.)(against 43.) In this way, I note that the assembly of the proposed proposal has not adopted a decision and that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wine Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Wine Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. (For the vote was 35.)(against 48.) I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 14th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Firearms Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Firearms Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 45. (There were 36 votes in favour.)(against 45.) I note that the assembly of the proposed proposal has not adopted a decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Income Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 50. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the assembly of the proposed proposal has not adopted a decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the draft decisions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers of 18 December 2018, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Sarca to the question Ive Dimic on child heart surgery and the health situation. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. (For the vote was 35.)(against 48.) I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to the question of electoral victory by Jelinčič Plmenite concerning the resettlement of foreigners. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. (For the vote was 33.)(against 48.) I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Proposal for a Next Decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Šarc to the question by Mr Zvonko Černač concerning the construction of the second tube of the Karavan tunnel. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Marjan Sarc to Mr Miha Kordiš's question on the balance of the 2019 budget and defence expenditure. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 44. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Karl Erjavac to the question of Mr Primož Siter on the payment of the co-financing of the construction of the Fire Centre in Postojna. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 43. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Juret Lebn, to Mr Boris Doblekar's question on the issue of degraded areas in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 41. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Sam Fakin's reply to Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's question on child and young orthodontistry. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 48. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertoncl, to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the burden of taxpayers. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertonclja, to the question of mags. Andrej Shirclj on compliance with fiscal rules. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. We are at the 10th motion for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mrs Andreja Katič's reply to Mrs Andreja Katič's parliamentary question on responsibility for fair trial. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. 11. Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Juret Lebn to Mr Željk Gigler's question on the reduction of pollution in the Celje Cauldron. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 42. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Proposal No 12: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertoncl, to Mr Jani Ivanuš's question on fiduciary accounts. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and the premises of Mr Juret Lebn to Mr Boris Doblekar's question on the situation in the field of water or water management in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 42. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. We turn to proposal 14 of the decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikala to the question of Mr Tomaž Lisca on the construction and restoration of sports infrastructure. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Proposal for Decision No 15: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Mir Cerar, to Mrs Ludmile Novak's question on the issue of financing Slovenian print media in Italy. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 40. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. We turn to proposal 16 of the decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenka Bratušek asked Mr Boštjan Koražija about the achievement of the energy renovation objectives in the use of the private sector and the wider public sector. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 44. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Dejan Prešič's reply to Mrs Violete Tomić's question on artistic works owned by Nova Ljubljanska Banka. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 43. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. We are at the 18th draft of the decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Juret Lebn to the question of Mr Anjet Logar in relation to the installation of sewers in the water protection areas. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 42. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal for this Decision is not adopted. 19. Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Karl Erjavac to Mr Jana Mahnić's question on the vision for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposal for this Decision is not adopted. Next proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Juret Lebn, to Mr Jana Mahnić's question on the shooting of wolves. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 50. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 59.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Finally, the 21st proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Ksenije Klampfer's question on Mr Miha Kordiš's question regarding delays in the social work centres in issuing decisions on child allowances, state scholarships and reduced payment of kindergartens and other human resources subsets of social work centres. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 43. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, I conclude the first item of the agenda. If you want some breaks, with this, honourable Members and Members, I have no problem. We can bid on three if you want. We're moving on to 27. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Koper. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to elect Mr Miha Špilar as Judge of the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Alenka Klemenčič on behalf of the Council of Justice. Mrs. Klemenčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u242	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The reason for the call to the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus is the weakness of the District Court in Piran, the expected membership of criminal cases in the Koper District of Justice and the reorganisation of work. In 2017, she was a district judge who was the only one to solve criminal cases in the District Court in Piran, and was appointed to the seat of the District Court. In the District Court in Cyprus, criminal matters are also handled by only one judge, and criminal cases will be resolved in the Koper District only in the District Court of Cyprus, where two judges will be deployed. Following the departure of the judge from the District Court in Piran, the invitation to tender was therefore necessary. Thirteen candidates applied for the seat. The Council of Justice conducted the selection procedure in three phases, followed successively according to the results of the previous phase. The first stage covered the verification of the fulfilment of the tendering conditions of the candidates. In the second phase, the Council of Justice carried out an assessment of the eligibility of candidates. In the third phase, he interviewed the most suitable candidates. All candidates met the tendering conditions. At its second session, the Council of Justice decided to invite four candidates to the oral hearing. Following the interviews held, he unanimously decided to elect Miha Špilar to serve as a district judge in the District Court in Koper and to propose him to the National Assembly for election. Miha Spilar was born in 1986. He graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana in 2011 and passed his legal exam in 2013. He has 7 years of work experience completed, of which more than 5 years after his legal examination. During the study, he achieved an average score of 8.54 and 8.43 at the legal examination. His previous career is fully linked to judicial work, since he was a senior judicial adviser at the Koper District Court for four years, since he was one. 1. 2018 is further employed as a professional associate at the Supreme Court of Cyprus. He was involved in the decision-making of the Court of Auditors. In the presence of the judge, he led pre-trial and main proceedings and proceedings against juvenile offenders. He prepared draft court decisions, conducted investigative procedures on his own and participated in the work of the specialised section of the District Court in Cyprus. In the Supreme Court of Cyprus, for all judges in the Chamber, he represents matters on the Senate and writes draft decisions of the Court of Appeal. Miha Spilar therefore has many years of experience working in the criminal field in courts of different degrees. He has gained experience with customer work and knows the work of the courts very well. It is clear from the opinions of the judges of the Criminal Investigation Department and the specialised section of the District Court in Cyprus that he has demonstrated, in his work so far, high working skills, very extensive and reliable expertise both in criminal law and in economic and civil law. In his work, he showed responsibility, reliability, and prudence. The candidate also received a very positive assessment by the President of the District Court in Cyprus. In his interview with the members of the Council of Justice, the candidate showed a great deal of breadth and depth of expertise in criminal matters, extensive work experience, communication skills and critical and analytical thinking, which convinced the Council of Justice that Miha Spilar was the best candidate for the seat of the Court of Justice and therefore proposed to the State Assembly to elect him as a district judge in the District Court of Cyprus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Klemenčič, for your presentation. The proposal treated the proposal as a competent mandate-holder as a parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr Ivan Hršk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Madam President. At its 5th meeting, on 13 December 2018, the Commission considered as its parent working body the application for election to a judicial office of the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Cyprus, submitted by the Council of State on 5 December 2018. Article 130 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the Judges shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Justice. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Judicial Service Act, a judge shall be deemed to have been appointed by election to the judicial office of the Court of Justice. As a representative of the proposer, a member of the Court of Justice of the Magi participated in the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Emil Konješek, who initially said that the selection procedure for the vacancy was carried out as usual in the application for judges. The short presentation concluded with an assessment that Miha Špilar is the most suitable candidate for the seat of the court. In the course of the debate, the Member of the Mandate-Electorial Commission highlighted the need for a more specific explanation of the criteria by which the Council of Justice elects a candidate for a judicial post and proposes it for election to the National Assembly. The National Assembly must make an important decision on the basis of a proposal from the Council of Justice, but it does not have relevant information on the candidates who have been included in the narrower selection and thus the possibilities for comparison. It also noted the heavy burden of the Council of Justice, which is also the reason for the recent withdrawal of one of the members of the Council of Justice, and expressed concern that the Council of Justice, in its discussions with candidates for judicial posts, is time-limited and consequently difficult to assess in an integrated manner the candidates. During the debate, the opinion was also expressed that the selection procedure for the courts should be amended. The representative of the Council of Justice further clarified the method of selection of the candidate and said that the Council of Justice shall, to the greatest extent possible, verify the competence of candidates for judicial posts and that it has the precise criteria by which it makes its choice. Following a discussion, the Commission of Elections decided to propose that Miha Špilar be elected to the judicial post of District Court in the District Court in Koper.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u245	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which Mr Miha Špilar is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Koper. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a Governor – a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. On 30 November 2018, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Boštjan Jazbec, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, be dismissed on 30 April 2018. Bostian Vasleta. I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u246	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. The President of the Republic of Slovenia decided that after the first call by the proposed candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in the National Assembly was not elected, he would repeat the call for proposals by potential candidates. He followed the belief that it is appropriate and proper to choose, as a rule, from those who are willing to apply for a public invitation. At the repeated call, the office received 5 nominations: for Prof. Dr. Jožet Damian, mag. Here's Lorenčič, Professor Igor Masten, Tomaž Toplac and Mag. Bostian Vasleta. After a thorough reflection, several discussions and consultations with MEPs and Members, the President of the Republic decided to propose to the National Assembly for election the Governor of Magi. Boštjana Vasleta, who is a master of economic sciences and mastered macro-economics at the Central European University in Budapest. He is the long-standing director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and has participated in all the key economic challenges of the last 15 years in Slovenia: in the preparation of a programme to reduce inflation, prepare and implement a comprehensive programme of structural reforms, prepare measures to respond to the economic and financial crisis, all of which required the coordinated functioning of all economic policies. He gained a comprehensive overview and an in-depth understanding of the functioning of the Slovenian economy and its placement in the European and global environment. He coordinated and implemented some key and reactive development policy projects. Due to the need for more complex risk management, a significant part of his time has been devoted to analysing economic risks. He collaborated with all the key authorities in the Republic of Slovenia as well as with the international institutions with which Banka Slovenije meets and is well aware of important parts of Banka Slovenije's international activities. Through his work and his participation in numerous international and domestic professional conferences, he has gained the reputation of an independent expert with personal integrity, who creates his views on the basis of reasoned views and analyses. He is a member of a number of committees, of the OECD international institutions, of the European Commission and of the European Network of Fiscal Councils. It has more than 10 years of managerial experience in managing the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and managing the most demanding projects within the Office. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today's vote will decide whether Banka Slovenije will get a new governor after almost eight months. The common responsibility of all those involved in the electoral process is whether we will be able to ensure the smooth functioning of one of the central state institutions. The President of the Republic, when proposing candidates for this function, took the best possible consideration of the wishes and expectations of Members and Members as regards the assessment of the fulfilment of the high professional requirements and leadership experience. Both the attitude towards past behaviour and the future direction of the Bank of Slovenia. On the basis of consultations, it can be reasonably expected that the candidate will benefit from the necessary support for the candidates. Mag. Boštjan Vasle is a candidate who has proved to be highly moral and ethical. He has the necessary professional and managerial experience, which has ensured that he will act as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in the event of his election professionally, carefully, effectively and that he will be independent of his decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kovac, for your presentation. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. President Ivan Hršak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Madam President. At its 5th meeting, the Council of the Bank of Slovenia appointed the Governor of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, which was forwarded by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly on 30 November 2018. The proposal was also accompanied by the agreement of the candidate. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in the second paragraph of Article 152, provides that the Governor of the Central Bank shall be appointed by the National Assembly. Pursuant to Article 35 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, he shall appoint the Governor of the National Assembly for 6 years on a proposal from the President of the Republic and may be reappointed. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia on the proposed candidate for a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall vote within 30 days of the submission of the proposal. The vote shall be secret and the proposed candidate shall be appointed if it is voted on by a majority of all Members. The meeting was attended by Mrs Nataša Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, who summarized the key reasons for the decision of the President of the Republic to propose that candidate. The mandate-election commission then decided, without a discussion of 9 votes and 2 votes against, to propose to the National Assembly that the proposed candidate mag. Boštjana Vasleta is appointed Governor – a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u249	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u250	Dear President, distinguished ministers and ministers, Mrs. Natasha Kovac! Today we are again deciding on the appointment of the Governor of Banka Slovenije. The first proposal by the President of the Republic was made at the tables in early October, but the secret vote showed that he did not enjoy sufficient support, so the President joined in the reiteration of the call for proposals by potential candidates. This time, too, five candidates applied at the invitation of the President of the Republic. We interviewed everyone at the modern center Party Group. This has allowed us, in addition to their formal experience and competences, to understand their views on the management of such an important institution. Following the presentations we have made, we have come to the decision to express our support to the candidate mag in our consultations with the President of the Republic. Bostian Vaslet. We are, therefore, pleased in some way to decide today to support his appointment as Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. If I mention the other candidates, I can also say that the other candidates did well in the presentations. In the end, however, after the assessments were made, we found that of the candidates that were registered, the best candidate was mag. Bostian Vasle. As we pointed out in the position of the parliamentary group as early as the month of October, when we decided on this matter, the Bank of Slovenia has been without full powers since the end of April. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we advocate that this institution get its first husband as soon as possible, thus starting to actively face the challenges ahead in the near future. In the presentations of the candidates, too, everyone agreed that there were important decisions in front of the banks in view of the outlook for cooling down economic growth. For this reason, it is also right that the Bank of Slovenia, with the Governor in charge, effectively performs its supervisory function. This has not always been the case in the past, which is why we want and also expect, we have also said that the new governor will be aware of this responsible role. At the same time, we expect him not to keep his eyes closed to suspicions of irregularities in the past, but he himself will act transparently and that the Bank of Slovenia will work constructively with other authorities, of course within his and their powers. Only then will it be able to strengthen the tour of the Bank of Slovenia in front of the Slovenian public. As we say in the introduction, we will support the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u252	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Many think that the Governor of Banka Slovenije is just another technical function. We have handed over monetary authority to the European Central Bank, which is the opinion or belief of many Banka Slovenije is just an office, a kind of Umar. It's not like that. And it clearly shows the last decade, a decade of crisis. Firstly, thanks to the Bank of Slovenia, overheating of the economy was worse than it could have been. Under Governor Kranjec, no measure was taken in 2007 and 2008 to halt the overheating of the economy before the crisis, making the crisis stronger than it would have been, and companies and banks were more indebted than if the Bank of Slovenia had acted. Secondly, Governor Kranjec made a second mistake in the middle of the crisis, when the first signs of action began to appear in 2010, he decided that, however, he would now raise the capital adequacy requirements of banks, which led to the start of pressure on the banks and, thanks to Banka Slovenije, Slovenia slipped into a second recession. Thirdly, the Bank of Slovenia is responsible for the bank hole, which we then paid all citizens and citizens. In 2009, Dr Ribnikar, one of Slovenia's largest banking authorities, who resigned because of disagreement with Kranjčev's policy, estimated that the bank hole was around EUR 500 million. Later, in 2013, at a closed meeting of the National Assembly, Banka Slovenije and Governor Jazbec assessed the bank hole as being a maximum of EUR 1.4 billion. That was April 2013. Six months later, we landed at 5 billion. Governor Badger didn't have a problem with that. The candidate we are going to vote on today doesn't have one either. He says that the rehabilitation of banks has been successful because today banks are in good condition and that it is only a question of judicial practice that is being investigated for abuse. It forgets that the difference between April and December 2013 was about 3 billion and a half. It forgets that the criteria under which Slovenian banks were assessed were fully depressed, the 10% decline in GDP, the 25% decrease in stock prices, almost a third decrease in real estate value. None of this ever happened in the first place. Contrary to the candidate, Mr Velimir Bole notes that the behaviour of the Bank of Slovenia, which was operationally leading the rehabilitation at the time, was constitutionally controversial and macro-economically unjustified. The candidate for governor, whom we are going to vote on today, is appointed a number of those governors that we have had in the last ten years, who are responsible for the banking crisis, which was and for its resolution, who see no problem in this regard, and are convinced that branding with Mary Draghi in the European Central Bank is in Slovenia's national interest. The facts show otherwise. This is the first reason why we will vote against it in Levica. The second reason is personal. Those who follow Mr Vaslet's political and economic views, which, while presenting himself as a neutral economic expert, can quickly find out that it provides a certain type of policy, low taxes, flexibility of the labour market. At the last round table, when the Director of Umarje was still discussing wages, he did not invite any employee representatives or trade unions, as if their salaries were not at all concerned. Thus, it has a view of the economy only from the point of view of capital. And the third reason, he has no experience in banking. And this is where I end up with what I started. The Bank of Slovenia is not Umar, it is not the Office with 40 employees, but it is the largest bank in us, its balance sheet is 15.6 billion euros, of which 7.1 billion invests abroad. And the question is, can we trust a man who hasn't spent a day in banking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u253	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Ms Masha Kociper on behalf of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As we have already said in the first round of the selection of candidate for Governor of Banka Slovenije, we take this candidate to the Alenka Bratušek Party, this city extremely serious. We remember too well in 2013 when the country was just in front of the bankruptcy, a few months before it ran out of money both for pensions and for the salaries of public servants, including doctors, nurses, teachers, etc. Although we initially supported another expert in this second round, we are now convinced that Dr. Boštian Vasle is also a good choice. He is a top expert in his field. Clearly, his CV also bears witness to his suitability. After his degree at the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana in 1997 he mastered very much in the field of prices and monetary policy. Since 2000, he has been employed by the Office of Macroeconomic Analysis and Development of the Republic of Slovenia, where he has participated in the preparation of changes in economic policies that have led to a reduction in inflation and the subsequent successful takeover of the euro. It has been followed by successful development policy projects and has been involved in the preparation and implementation of a structural reform programme, thanks to which Slovenia has reached more developed members of the European Union. At the head of Umar he spent both peaceful and more turbulent times, and many point out that he had to do at least something right because he survived five governments and four premieres. Maybe he was just working professionally. In his work history, Dr. Vasle had to make many important decisions and be the leader of an independent and professional institute. He also dealt with various and thematic economic issues throughout his work, and he appeared to have responded to them successfully. We believe that he will be able to replicate these diverse experiences in his activities in Banka Slovenije and to use the acquired competences and knowledge of the Slovenian economy to run this important institution sovereignly. Dr. Vasle is aware that the central bank, which will run it in case of sufficient support, will have to prepare for economic cooling. All economic policies will have to respond to this in their frameworks, and the timely and appropriate response of Banka Slovenije will be particularly important. The Bank of Slovenia is an important independent and professional institution and must be led by a candidate who can contribute, through his expertise, arguments, posture and analytics, to keeping it that way. At work, he must be able to draw up long-range plans and be a little visionary and know certain things to anticipate. He must have clear and firm views and know how to defend them. In this respect, in the Alenka Bratušek Party, we are also convinced that there is nothing wrong with the Governor of Banka Slovenije even being a little more conservative in his thinking and, above all, being cautious and reserved in public expressing his opinion, which can have a strong influence. It is important that he is careful and perhaps even somewhat bureaucraticly accurate in accepting reports and analyses that will allow Banka Slovenije, as regulator, to monitor the Slovenian banking system properly and prevent the anomalies we have witnessed in the past. The future governor is therefore facing many challenges and not even an easy task. There is, as mentioned at the door, a calming of economic growth, brexit, problems in Italy and so on. All of this will have to be answered. From this point of view, we also welcome the fact that, at least in our behaviour, Dr Vasle is a politically undeclared person and will not look at the opinions of those or others. He has shown a positive attitude to the Bank of Slovenia's judgements and decisions in the past, drawing attention to the importance of familiarity with the positions which led to certain decisions at the time and in that environment. So it's not defined in advance. Do not be misled by populism and a certain dominant opinion, nor do it point to the guilty until things are really cleared up. So while we have supported someone else, we believe that the decision is now good and that Dr. Vasle has adequate competence, it is not burdened with the past, so we will also support it in the Alenka Bratušek Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u255	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. And as the last Mr. Franz Jurša, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador, it's your last.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u256	President, thank you for your word. Good evening to all, or, rather, a good evening! After the departure of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Boštjan Jazbec is a staff gap in the position of Governor of Banka Slovenije. It is essential that the Bank of Slovenia continues to manage its primary functions as soon as possible, with appropriate leadership at the head. The Bank of Slovenia is not only a national bank. It is part of the euro area, the European Central Bank and participates in the creation of a European monetary policy. It is not acceptable for Slovenia to stay out of this process for too long at the expense of internal disagreements or because of the inability to appoint appropriate leadership. The Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is also a member of the Council of the European Bank. Thus, Slovenia has no say in the vote until the appointment of the new Governor, which is crucial for Slovenia. We need the Governor, this is our mission today. Human resources and/or incomplete functions cannot perform these functions in a qualitative manner. It is not necessary to mention in particular that the Bank of Slovenia must restore its reputation in the financial world. On the previous proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, the candidate for Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr Primož Dolenc, did not receive sufficient support in the National Assembly. At this moment, we have a new name ahead of us, Mr Boštjan Vasle. In the second test of the appointment of the governor, two potential candidates presented themselves to us, which could receive sufficient support from the National Assembly. Each of them showed us his view of the current banking situation, the resolution of the banking problem, explained the structure and internal functioning of the institution itself and the aspect of cooperation between Banka Slovenije on the one hand and the Ministry and the National Assembly on the other. Cooperation and confidence-building are key, not dismemberment and willful action. We live in a country where, despite great progress, we still feel the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. Nor has a bank recovery been forgotten, which demanded a dizzying amount of taxpayer money at the expense of our people. As a result of all this, in our Group of Members, we are convinced that the new Governor must have broad support from the National Assembly. In the Desus Group, we believe that, on the basis of his long-standing experience with the management of one of the extremely important state institutions and his responsible approach to solving these problems, we can trust Banka Slovenije's leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u257	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal to appoint a Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the appointment of the Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Mr Franz Breznik, Mrs Andreja Zabret, Mrs Janja Slug and Mr Blaž Pavlin. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal? No, no, no. Thank you. This has allowed us to come to the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 1. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word “for” or the word “against”. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate for Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, will be appointed if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the vote will begin at 20.55 and will continue until 21.10. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in voting in order to gather in room 2017. I interrupt this agenda item and the 3rd meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 9.25 p.m. Thank you. (The sitting was suspended at 20.50 and resumed at 21.25.)
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Nice greetings to Vlad! We continue with the adjournment of the meeting and the consideration of the 27th item, this is the proposal for the appointment of a Governor – a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I am reading the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote on the appointment of mags. Boštjana Vasleta, for the governor – member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia: The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 19 December 2018. 85 ballots were distributed and 85 ballots were delivered. Six ballots were invalid, 79 votes were valid. 51 Members and Members voted against by 28 Members and Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Boštjan Vasle, by majority of the votes of all Members, is appointed Governor of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Congratulations to the governor, and I wish him a successful job. With this respect, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a President and two members of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I am informing you that there are no applicants for the debate and therefore we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that allows the Fund to finance the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant for a period of four years for the president to be appointed mag. Marjeta Lipec, as a member of Gregor Korene and Dr. Miha Skvarč. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 6. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the President, Mr Ivan Hršk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u259	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable President of the Government, ministers, secretaries of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The decision establishing and setting out the tasks of the Slovenian National Commission for Unesco in Article 3 shall lay down the composition of the Slovenian National Commission for Unesco, by appointing its representative on the basis of the first paragraph of that Article, also the National Assembly for a period of four years with the possibility of reappointment. On 21 November 2014, the National Assembly appointed Mr Dragan Matić as a member of the Commission of Representatives of the National Assembly. The term of office of the members of the Commission shall expire in January 2019 and the National Assembly shall therefore appoint a new member. On the basis of a decision adopted at its 4th meeting, on 15 November 2018, the Commission called on the members of the group to forward proposals for a member or member of the Slovenian National Commission for Unesco. She received two proposals within the time limit, namely the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and the proposal of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Sarca. At its 5th meeting, on 13 December 2018, the Mandate-Electorial Commission, out of the proposals of the two candidates by vote, appointed Ms Nina Maurovic and included the text of the proposal for a decision and forwarded the proposal to the National Assembly to decide on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u260	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There are no applications for discussion. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Ms Nina Maurovic to the Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO for a term of four years. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 23. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. The proposal for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding Board was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. Does the representative of the Government, Secretary of State Mr. Method Dragonja, want a word? No, no, no. Thank you. The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. Mr. Ivan Hršak would like to speak with the President? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to everyone else. At its 5th meeting, on 13 December 2018, and at its 1st and 2nd sessions, on 18 December 2018, the Commission considered the proposal to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly on 6 December 2018. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 39 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the SDH Supervisory Board shall consist of five members. Under the first paragraph of Article 40 of that Act, all members of the SDH Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The National Assembly gives its consent to the Government's entire proposal and cannot change it. The second paragraph of Article 40 provides that a member of the SDH Supervisory Board shall be elected for five years with the possibility of a one-time re-election. The Government proposes to the National Assembly that the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., appoint for a term of five years a lady who has ceased to serve as Minister of the SDH Supervisory Board. The proposed candidate was provided with justifications or presentations of her current professional and professional work. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 59 of the Slovenian National Holding Act, the candidate submitted a statement to the National Assembly on the circumstances of conflicts of interest. Mr Andrej Bertoncelj and the Secretary of State of Methods of Dragonja participated as representatives of the proposed panel. In the introductory explanations, they presented the procedure for selecting candidates at the level of the expert commission and at the Ministry of Finance, as is the result of the Government's proposal. In the debate, some members and members of the Mandate-Election Commission made it clear that the applicant should justify his decision to elect the most suitable candidate proposed to the National Assembly for appointment in the explanation of the proposal. The Government's proposal does not show the criteria and reasons on which out of the three candidates put forward by the expert commission in a narrower selection of professionally appropriate candidates, the proposed candidate and not the other two candidates were chosen. The Commission therefore adopted a decision requesting the Government to complete the material which is the basis for addressing this point in accordance with the proposals expressed in the debate. For that reason, the Commission suspended the examination of the case until the submission of a further explanation of the proposal for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, submitted by the Government on 14 December 2018. Part of the first meeting was held without the public presence, at which the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bertoncel, presented in more detail the progress of the selection procedures at the level of the expert commission from which the Ministry of Finance was excluded, and the reasons and criteria on which the selection of the candidate was carried out. In drawing up his final proposal, the Minister took into account all the criteria foreseen by the call for proposals and assessed by the expert committee and the competent profile and composition of the body as a whole, so that upgrades and improvements to the functioning of SDH may be necessary. Following the debate, the Commission adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that Mrs Carmen Dietner be appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding for a period of five years.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u262	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. We're moving on to the debate. Would any of the Members or Members like a word? I guess not. With this, honourable Members and honourable Members, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Carmen Dietner as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding for a period of five years. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 30. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 30.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a candidate for a minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Dr Iztok Purič is appointed Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 30. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that Dr Iztok Purič is appointed Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion. I sincerely congratulate the Minister of Government on his appointment and wish him success in his duties. I ask the newly appointed Minister, Dr. Iztok Purič, to join us and to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u263	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2018-12-19-SDZ8-Redna-03.ana.u264	Dear Minister, once again, I congratulate you on your appointment. Dear Members, honourable Members [[…]] [[applause in the hall]] Since Mr Marko Bandelli has ceased to carry out the current affairs of the Minister for Development, Strategic Projects and Cohesion, he is acting as a Member of Parliament as of today in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. Secondly, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, Mr Andrej Šushmelj, acting in place of Mr Mark Bandelli, has ceased to serve as Minister. On this occasion, Mr Andre Šushmel, Member, thank you very much for the work done in the National Assembly. On the basis of Rule 33 and Article 200 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly is informed of the following decision: “It shall be ascertained that Mr Andre Šushmel, who has ceased his post as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, has ceased to serve as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture.” Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly, which we continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
