ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We will begin the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on January 6, 2022. But before we start looking at the agenda, I would like to wish everyone a happy new year. Thank you for your work and cooperation last year! This year, everyone has strong health – Members and employees! We will begin to review the agenda for the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 6 January this year. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Council of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law “The Programme Management Law for the European Union Cohesion Policy Objective “European Territorial Cooperation” (Interreg) 2021-2027 to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is the examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Fisheries Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U2	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Good morning, colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fisheries” (No. 1250/Lp13). At the moment, Latvia has a situation where the protection and monitoring of fish resources are carried out by two institutions - the State Environment Service and the Nature Conservation Authority, which are working in particular with protected nature areas and micro-free areas. In order to optimise these resources, the draft law provides for the transfer of control of fishing and fishing in all the waters of the Republic of Latvia to the State Environmental Service. and also remedy the deficiency, as the law on the violation of Article 23 does not provide for liability and does not specify the competent authority in the administrative infringement proceedings. In the Commission, we supported the draft law. Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U3	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fisheries”! Please, let's vote! For - 78, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U4	The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U5	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 20 January this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Land Management Law”, second reading. Member Viesturs Liepkalns on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U6	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Using the opportunity to address you at the first sitting of the Saeima this year, I will also wish you a happy new year. Health full and development-oriented in 2022! But now it's a bill. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined and prepared for second reading a draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” (No. 1219/Lp13). In total, five proposals were received for the second reading and have been examined by the Commission. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the protection of the environment and regional development, Artis Tomas Pleš, which seeks to clarify the wording of the first paragraph of Article 6, by stating that a restriction on private property in favour of public access to inland public waters may only be set out in a spatial plan or a local plan. This proposal of a editorial nature is in line with the existing Territorial Development Planning Law. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U7	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U8	2. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. This is also a editorial proposal, which provides for clarification of Section 7(1) of the Land Management Law, supplementing the conditions for the creation of new plots of land and providing that, when creating new plots of land, access may be provided not only from the street or road of the municipality, but also from the road or street owned by private persons, for which the land, street or road status of the municipality has been established in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on Land Management. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U9	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U10	3. - the proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Artis Tomas Plšs. The proposal is necessary in order to harmonise the regulation included in the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment (which is currently under review in the Commission, and is binding on the draft law) and the Land Management Law, stating that the boundaries of the sea-coastal strips are updated not after the update of the basic geopolitical data, but when the sea-coastal line and the limit of the highest wave of the sea have been established in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U12	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal provides for a clarification of the arrangements under which the State may, in cases where it requires the exercise of the functions of public administration, receive the land included in the reserve. This proposal was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U13	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U14	And 5. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to recast point 12 of the transitional provisions. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U16	Colleagues, we have examined all five proposals in the committee. The Commission has supported this draft law. I call on you to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management”! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U18	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 13 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U19	Thank you. Deadline for proposals: 13 January this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Linda Medne. ( Pause) We can't hear you, Mrs Mednes, we can't hear you. We still can't hear! ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U20	Do you hear me right now?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U21	Yeah, you can hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U22	Hello, colleagues! Happy is all the new year! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” (No. 1071/Lp13), second reading. For the second reading, the Education, Culture and Science Commission has assessed 14 proposals. 1. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. The proposal provides for Article 3 to be reworded with a view to the transformation, transfer and destruction of cultural monuments... the supervisory responsibilities would be divided according to new value levels. The preservation and monitoring of local cultural monuments would be ensured by the municipality, while the preservation of regional and national cultural monuments would be monitored by the National Cultural Heritage Board. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U24	2. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. The proposal provides for the deletion of the fourth paragraph of Section 5 of the law, as this legal framework is no longer relevant, given that Section 14(7) of the law “On the Protection of Cultural Monuments” provides that the preservation of local cultural monuments is to be ensured by local authorities. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U26	3. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. The proposal provides for the wording of Section 8 (3) of the law in a new version, stating that a cultural monument of national and regional importance may be disposed of if the owner of the intention to dispose has announced the intention to alienate to the National Cultural Heritage Administration, but a cultural monument of local importance to the municipality. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U28	4. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. The proposal provides for a new wording of paragraphs 1 and 2 of the second paragraph of Article 11 of the law in order to clarify the obligations of owners of cultural monuments with regard to the protection of cultural monuments. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U30	5. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. The proposal provides for the exclusion of the thirteenth part of Article 14 of the Law, which provides that the marking of cultural monuments and their territories in the plans of administrative territorial units and state cadastral survey documents shall be provided by the State Land Service for the funds of the state budget. This legal framework is no longer relevant, as the marking of cultural monuments and their territories in the plans of the administrative territorial units and in the State cadastral surveying documents is already carried out by the National Cultural Heritage Authority. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U32	6. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. The proposal provides for the wording of Article 20 of the law in a new version, in order to provide that the guidelines on the use and preservation of the cultural monument in question shall be notified to the owner of a cultural monument of national or regional interest by the National Cultural Heritage Authority and to the owner of the cultural monument of local interest by the municipality. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U34	7. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. The proposal provides for the wording of the first paragraph of Article 21 in a new version, so that the monitoring of procedures for the exploration, conservation and restoration of cultural monuments in respect of cultural monuments of national and regional importance is left to the National Cultural Heritage Administration and local cultural monuments to the local authorities. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U36	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The proposal provides for the rewording of the first paragraph of Article 24 by requiring the owner of the cultural monument to be responsible for the timely restoration and preservation of the cultural monument. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U38	9. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The proposal provides for the expression of Article 22 of the law in a new version, in order to establish that a public person holding or holding a cultural monument first invests the income from the economic activities carried out as a result of the use of the cultural monument in the research, maintenance and preservation of the cultural monument. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U40	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. The Commission has partially supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U41	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U42	11. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provides for the addition of twenty. — Sound Break. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U43	So there's obviously a break in the Internet. Let's try to figure out the situation for a second, colleagues. ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U44	I'm sorry, I guess there were Internet problems.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U45	I see that the situation has been resolved; we can continue.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U46	So 12. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. The Commission has partially supported and included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U47	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U48	13. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Provision is made for the wording of Article 36 to be reworded, stating that administrative infringement proceedings for cultural monuments of national and regional importance are to be carried out by the National Cultural Heritage Office. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U50	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal by Rittvars Jansons, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. It is planned to supplement the transitional provisions of the law with paragraphs 9 and 10, which determine the competence of the municipality - to ensure supervision of the preservation of cultural monuments of local importance... and related proposals, thus ensuring that a full transfer of relevant documentation from the National Cultural Heritage Administration is carried out before the start of the duties. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U52	The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has supported the second reading of the draft law and asks the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at second reading is supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U54	Deadline for submission of proposals - 27 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U55	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 27 January this year. Next on the agenda - draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U56	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Above all, of course, a happy new year, a healthy new year, and let all of us succeed in our desire! We are currently working with the draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia” (No. 1159/Lp13). A total of 47 proposals have been received for the second reading. I would just like to say that the Commission had a very wide-ranging debate both on extending the scope of persons who could receive remuneration (this was expressed both in the title and in the aim of the draft law) and, of course, on how the use of these funds will be monitored. But I think we will go through all the proposals, and then the rapporteurs themselves will also want to say something. 1. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. The Commission was not supported, as this is also a question of extending the scope of the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U57	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U58	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Members of the Saeima! Latvia has stated in its Constitution that it condemns the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes, and since the restoration of independence, we have also consistently worked to compensate for the injustice that the totalitarian regimes have directed against our citizens, without distinction between ethnic origin and social status, but seeking to make fair, equitable compensation for the damage done to both individuals and legal entities - as far as it has been possible for Latvia. At the moment, we have the opportunity to start the new year either with a fair and fair solution for all victims of totalitarian regime crimes, without distinguishing them, or we can create a draft law that works narrowly, not even for the benefit of one nationality, but for the benefit of small, highly dubious companies with a very, very poor reputation, which we will certainly also be able to talk about later today. For my part, I would like to emphasise that almost all parties are looking together at the fact that the political oppressors of Latvia are those who have to provide support in different situations. We have put legislation in place for this purpose. The political oppressors of Latvia are not divided by nationality, by who has directed these crimes against them - Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union. We would repress our Latvia politically... we do not try to say that someone who has slept in one livestock wagon has suffered in some way more than someone who has slept in another livestock wagon. We are not trying to say from Latvia that the one who has been sent to the concentration camp is something better or more supportive than the other, who has slept in the same concentration camp... with the first person. I therefore really call on the Members of the Saeima to be very careful and responsible. If you want to give this good will to the Jews of Latvia, you should definitely not forget the Latvian Roma, who in fact were destroyed in a very equal percentage in the Holocaust by Nazi Germany. It would also be absurd if we tried to remove those pages of history where there were crimes against the Latvian people from both the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany. It would be absurd, also in view of the consistent foreign and domestic policy implemented by Latvia, where we have explained the crimes of these totalitarian regimes - that in fact they are completely identical that we have given identical support to both nationalities and others. The foundation is not nationality, but the fact that these persons have been oppressed. I think we need to continue with this policy. Let us not try to change this consistent policy because of the lobby of a small, highly influential business group. I call for support for this proposal put forward by the National Alliance, which therefore intends to change the aim of the bill - that good will compensation is paid to the victims of totalitarian regimes. We can talk about increasing, clarifying, we can also talk about concrete measures that would then be financed through this programme, but that would be the right and fair solution - that we will significantly expand this programme. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U59	Thank you. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U60	Hello! On 25 March and 14 June each year, the victims of the Communist genocide are mentioned in Latvia, and on 4 July the victims of the Jewish genocide are mentioned. As victims of totalitarian regimes, Latvians and Jews do not need to convince our society. Less is known about genocide directed against the Roma of Latvia who obtained the sign “Samudaripen”. In 1935, according to official accounting data, 3840 Roma lived in Latvia. During the interwar period, the involvement of the Roma in public events in Latvia began, but as a result of Nazi occupation, a genocide was carried out against the Roma. Like the Jews, the Nazi racial ideology considered the Roma to be a lower race, and it was intended that they be physically completely destroyed. From the second half of 1942 the Roma in Latvia were rescued from destruction only by acute labour shortages and requests from certain local authorities, such as the local authorities of Talsi County, - the Latvians - not to shoot the Roma. According to various estimates of researchers, 2000-3000 Roma were murdered in Latvia. In any case, it was more than half of the community. It is not possible to establish an exact figure because of the lack of archive documents, and also because the Roma applied to be representatives of other nationalities. For the last reason, the total number of Roma was also higher than 3840 registered in 1935. The Roman genocide has left an indelible injury in the historical memory and self-esteem of the Roma in Latvia. The study of the history of the Roma, including the genocide against them, in archives and the collection of memory stories, as well as the preservation of the unique Roma culture, are essential for the Roma. The good will of the Roma cannot be shown to the Roma in Latvia, because there is no one. The good will of the state of Latvia can be demonstrated. On 15 April 2015, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on hostility against the Roma in Europe and the Roma genocide... days... During World War II... which acknowledged the fact of the Roma genocide during the Second World War. Countries were invited to mention the victims of genocide and to declare August 2 a Roma genocide... day. In Latvia, the memory of Roma is still very unexpressed. A memorial model of the victims of uninstalled Roma genocide remains lonely at the Roman Museum. I call for the scope of this draft law to be extended to define its title "Reimbursement of good will to the victims of totalitarian regimes".
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U61	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U62	Dear President, Honourable Members! The occupation of Latvia resulted in the loss of around 350 500 citizens. In 1935, Latvia had one million 950 thousand 502 citizens and 1.6 million in 1946. Thus, Latvia’s citizens, who are referred to in the Constitution as “the people of Latvia”, lost some 350 thousand people in the second world each.... more than 350 thousand. During the Soviet occupation and also after the war, the demographic situation in Latvia was violently distorted. In 1935, 75 percent lived in Latvia, 52 percent in 1989. Some 900 thousand people arrived in Latvia after the war from Russia and other republics of the USSR. If the Jews have received some compensation, then other ethnic groups - Latvians, Russians, Germans, Poles - have not received anything. The Roma have already been mentioned here. The land under the homes built by these 900 thousand citizens, the new residential districts, was not compensated. For 70 years, the owners did not receive any remuneration, the loan securities of Ķegums HES were not compensated (promote before the war) for the construction of this power plant, and after the war it was announced that repayment would start in 1965 (the Year is not clear.) . Many apartments, which were taken away from wealthy deportees and killed Latvian citizens, were used for accommodation of arrivals from the Soviet Union. Leo Dribin writes in his book “Jews in Latvia” that after the war about two thirds of this Jewish community came from the Soviet Union and are not Latvian citizens. The issue is, in fact, much more serious. ‘ Latvian people’ - the term in the Constitution - is a concept that denotes all Latvian citizens. For the first time in the history of Latvia, regardless of its ethnic origin, this nation of Latvia is replaced by one part, which in my opinion is a rather insulting name - the “Jewish Community”. So we have Latvian citizens or Latvian people in the Constitution and nowhere in the Constitution does the Jewish community... which has been removed from context. So the people of Latvia are opposed, on the one hand, and some community, on the other, which, as I said, two thirds have come from the Soviet Union... it is in contrast with the people of Latvia. It is rather insulting, and there appears one absolutely false statement - I wonder that no one has drawn attention to it - that here are many of the properties that have been disposed of during the Soviet period and even after the war... renewed in Latvian time... of these properties had benefited the State and the local government, but not the Jewish community. This statement is false and absolutely unfair because it comes out - if a school that we have already given to the Jewish society... if a school is used for Latvian people or Latvian citizens, it turns out that everyone has studied there, regardless of their ethnic background, as I said, - Latvians, Poles, Russians, but no benefit has been obtained from Jewish community representatives, they have not gone to that school. As well as on, as I said, many-storey residential houses were built on the land of these deportees, which apparently accommodated the people of Latvia and the citizens of Latvia who benefited from it, the local authorities of Latvia benefited, but they did not benefit from the Jewish community, because of course they did not live in these homes. The question - which benefited from the apartments confiscated by the rich citizens of Latvia. You know there were five-room, seven-room apartments. The Soviet authorities compacted these people, and most of them were accommodated there by those from the Soviet Union. I don't know if the authors of this draft law have coordinated this insulting name and designation from the Latvian people or the Latvian citizens' community... individual groups. Is that against...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U63	Mr Kirštein, Mr Kirštein, the debate...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U64	I call for our proposal as National Alliances to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U65	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U66	Good morning, Members of the Saeima! This proposal. The Roma, or gypsy, were destroyed by national socialists as coldly as the Jews. If the government or any public institution had planned a draft law on the reimbursement of the people who were victims of genocide by national socialists, it would apply to both peoples. In the meantime, we have not expected such a draft state law, but the Jewish community has drafted such a draft law. They cannot be accused of the fact that the Jews were only concerned about themselves. Who will take care of them, if not for themselves. The total of the rest has been calculated by identifying the properties belonging to the Jewish community directly on 16 June 1940 and based on the cadastral value of the real estate listed in the annex to the draft law on 31 December 2018. I therefore believe that extending this draft law to all the victims of genocide in the Jewish community now would not be correct. I will add that during the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) Dmitrijs Krupņikovs, Chairman of the Board of the Jewish Community Restitution Fund of Latvia, said quite articulately: if such a draft law on the Roma will be drawn up, the Jewish community will definitely support it. If he had the opportunity to speak in our debate, I think he will certainly have my comments again. I believe that the proposal of the National Alliance cannot be supported, the law on compensation for the victims of totalitarian regimes can be submitted separately and examined in the general order foreseen in the Rules of Procedure, and this can be done. I therefore think that both Mr Dombrava and Mr Kirštein have every opportunity to draft such laws and... which we will certainly look at as carefully and diligently as we did at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. But now it's on proposal 1. I call for the vote not to support it, to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U67	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U68	Dear colleagues, We don't have to wait for anything. The national association, as well as several other Members, has put forward proposals which would in fact clarify and identify the persons, those groups of persons who could then receive this reimbursement, as well as various support mechanisms for these affected peoples, for the preservation of their cultures and so on. We do not have to wait for anything; we can already amend this draft law. In turn, if such a law is adopted and will not be adopted, for example, certain compensations of good will for Latvians, compensations of good will for the Roma community, then discrimination will be expressed, where there will also be grounds to appeal to the Constitutional Court about why one ethnic group is more valuable and better than others. On the State's side, yes, it may have been necessary to direct such a draft law in advance, but there is such a subtle nuance that Latvia is not responsible for the crimes committed by Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union. Throughout this period, the Latvian State has consistently sought that such reimbursement be paid in one form or another, respectively, by Germany or Russia as heirs of these two totalitarian regimes. There have, to date, actually been some single turnarounds from Germany, but in general, they have indeed been the means of ridicule that have been directed at our victims. I call, however, for this proposal to be supported, for the draft law to be put right at second reading and for it to be further clarified at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U69	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U70	Dear President, Honourable Members! Mr Pimenova called for the proposal of the National Alliance not to be supported... You see, no one is allowed to support from his personal resources. So if we do not support the proposal of the National Alliance, then it actually turns out that... It is not from Mr Pimenova's pocket that these 40 million will be collected. These 40 million will be paid to the Roma who suffered no less than Jews, Latvians who were deported and shot, Poles, Russians and other nationalities. Thus, those who are referred to in the Constitution as “the people of Latvia” will have to give up money for one ethnic group. In my opinion, it is morally unethical, as I said, no one is forbidden to donate something from his pocket. Mr Pimenov will obviously set an example. But we cannot force Latvian citizens with our taxes... we cannot force the deceased Latvian citizens to pay only one ethnic group. It is unethical, inhumane, shameful and humiliating for the Latvian Saeima. I call for support for the National Alliance's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U71	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U72	Mr Kirstein will remind you of the title of this bill, especially the words that are the highest... at the very beginning - "reimbursement of good will"... Consequently, if a country has a good will, the State will compensate for the damage suffered by the Jewish community. If there's no good will, then it doesn't pay back. This is a good choice of will for every Member who is the President of the national parliament, representing his constituents. It is not my task to call on Mr Kirštein to vote in favour of this draft law. It's an expression of his good will. Therefore, there can be no rational justification here for doing so. It's your choice, Mr. Kirstein, as well as my choice... and each Member. I have just given my reasons very briefly. I don't think I need to repeat what it meant for a Jew or a Roma to be taken captive by a national socialist during the war. The situation was completely different if it was not a Jewish or Roma, but it was a Latvian or Russian, or a Belarusian or Ukrainian. For the Jews and for the Roma, this meant death, a very tortured death. I wanted to remember it very clearly when you called for the nations not to be divided. We do not sort nations, we graded national socialists, and we should repeat that. I would like to say once again: an expression of good will - in the decision of each Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U73	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U74	Just like in the commission... As here, the Commission had a very wide-ranging debate on this proposal, proposal 1, but proposal 1 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please, let's vote! No, 17, 52, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U76	2. - My colleague Nemir's proposal. Also extends the circle of recipients through the change of name. This proposal was not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U77	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U78	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Looking at the bill as a whole... We are talking about a good will. In this case, the draft law that we are now looking at is actually one community, but we can also create it as a basic law that is broader. This would involve a wider range of individuals and communities. In my further proposals, I have talked about the reimbursement of good will not only for the Jews who are here, in this draft law, already placed in the base, including the Roma, including the Belarusians, but also for the Latvians, which is very important, also for the German community. Here we could, of course, expand this discussion by inviting enough experts to express themselves and perhaps even prove the amount of good will compensation, but in order for us to be able to do so, we certainly need to simply make this draft law wider... which we, with amendments, are able to expand. At the moment, my proposal is very simple: only one word is actually removed from the draft law and then referred to as the Goodwill Compensation Law for Latvian Communities. This is, in fact, an aspect on which this very proposal is aimed. Colleagues, we can then really debate very extensively the extent of the reimbursements, and then call on the Ministry of Finance to give its opinion on this. At the moment, there is a place for the reimbursement of good will. The Jewish community is the first to make such a request. This is good, but I call for other communities to not forget, which are also very, very badly affected. Colleagues have mentioned the Roma community, but not only, there are other communities that have suffered. So this is the time when we can both open and close this history page. There is enough time for us to do so. So now we... Since we are looking at this draft law at second reading, if such a proposal were to be supported, we would certainly still be able to work and move forward. If this proposal is not supported... and, seeing the result of the vote on proposal 1, I will, of course, call for a draft law to be drafted, which will be called just like this proposal, not to identify a particular community, but to make it much wider... tabled to the Saeima, as appropriate, so that we can debate and move forward the bill. So right now, it seems it could be like a double job in case one bill actually goes ahead. In addition, I would like to emphasise once again that in this proposal and in the future, I am no longer talking in any way about amounts which would be correctly calculated by the experts and, accordingly, to give the Ministry of Finance an opinion on the justification of the amounts or perhaps objections to the irregularity. We can therefore already talk about the wider possibilities that the Commission could discuss. The draft law, as the chairman of the commission has rightly pointed out, really had a wide-ranging discussion. Representatives of various communities were invited to express themselves. Its discussions were very high quality, and I think we should also stick to this if we extend this draft law to other groups, which could also receive their good will reimbursement. That is why I, my fellow Members, am calling for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U79	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U80	Dear Members of the Saeima! This proposal tabled by Ralfa Nemiro is also good enough and acceptable. Of course, the title of this draft law can be further clarified at third reading. It is likely that this will also have to be done. But here again, I would like to place particular emphasis on the substance of this proposal, which was, in fact, also the essence of the first proposal, that we should not in any way artificially narrow the range of people who were subjected to repression during the period of repression... I would say, not only in the Second World War, but also after that. Here Mr Pimenova spoke wisely earlier, but I would like to emphasise that it is not that in all cases this ethnic origin was crucial. The Jewish community also emphasises the crimes implemented by the Soviet Union by requesting this reimbursement from Latvia. And that's the main reason why property resituation is required... This funding is directly linked to the nationalisation of property. It did not happen in Nazi Germany, the nationalization of property took place during the occupation of the Soviet Union, when the Jews living in Latvia were taken away - just like other nationalities living in Latvia. In fact, it was not relevant whether in 1941 a person was a Jewish of Latvia or a Latvian living in Latvia. If he had too many, he actually had no chance. The criminals of the Soviet Union declared that they were enemies of the state, took away their property, either destroyed them immediately, or sent them to Siberia. If we look at statistics - which were then sent out in livestock wagons, there were also representatives of very different nationalities, not only, for example, Latvian Jews and not only Latvians living in Latvia. Therefore, the State of Latvia has consistently taken steps to establish various reliefs, such as real estate tax relief, various social rehabilitation programmes, monthly support, and so on, for the victims of these repression, regardless of their ethnic origin. I would particularly like to turn to a very specific party rather than a 'congregation'... I also do not want to turn to Development/About! I would like to address the New Conservative Party, the New Unity, the Greens/Famiers Union, which is actually the driving force behind this bill. Your parties are often represented at various political repressed gatherings, events, and there you have never stressed that their suffering is less important to you than the suffering of the Jewish community of Latvia. You haven't done that. Then there is the question why, with its votes... You are likely to vote in all votes today in favour of the politically repressive exclusion of Latvia from this draft law. There will be a number of proposals on this. However, I would urge you not to do so. I would like to call for the cornerstones to be laid now so that this draft law is logical, correct, just for all the victims of repression, and then for the third reading further clarify the nuances that are relevant to this draft law, but already now this draft law is extended to form a single legislative logic with those laws that are already talking about the political oppressors of Latvia, regardless of their nationality. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U81	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U82	Dear President, Honourable Members! I also call for support for this proposal. I would remind you again that no crimes were committed in Latvia. Crimes... Latvia lost its status as a state de iure in July 1940, de facto being a part of the Soviet Union. All the crimes were committed by the authorities of the USSR of the USSR, Russia is the legal successor of the USSR today. In Ostland, crimes were committed by the German authorities. So those responsible today are Germany and Russia. And I would like to remind Mr Pimenova that in that case, too, acts of good will should be written either by Germany or by Russia. What's the difference? Germany has paid these compensations. When we asked one of the representatives of the community and the authors of the draft law, Mr Krupņikov, how much compensation and who received them in Latvia in particular, Mr Krupņikov, did not answer this question. There is also the moral question as to whether several compensations can be received for the same case. The second question is why this community has never turned to Russia, which has committed these crimes, as I said, not only during the occupation of the USSR, but also before Germany had done something but also when deporting a large proportion of the Jewish population, killing members of the Saeima, such as Nurok or Dubin (Dubin died in the Soviet concentration camp). Then, for some reason, this leadership of the Jewish community has never shown an interest in Russian legal heirs of the Soviet Union in some way to compensate for what it has done. Whether this is due to the fact that many former KGB staff are present in this community or to other matters (we already know that the former Executive Director was also an KGB agent there) - this is another issue and perhaps not a draft law, so to speak, the subject. But it is extremely dubious to demand from Latvia, which has nothing to do with Ostland, neither with Soviet crimes, nor with German crimes... But Germany, as I said, has shown this goodwill, has compensated these properties and losses in line with the Teresine Declaration. Then, by the way, I would also like to remind you that the Teresin Declaration referred to there and, by the way, does not provide for the transfer of property to certain public organisations at all. There's talk, let's say, about citizens... compensation for certain persons and the return of their property. I would like to remind you that there is no ethically owned property to compensate for other property that has never been owned. A link has been made between two thirds of the members of the community who have come from the USSR, many of whom have also worked in various totalitarian, say, criminal organisations, ministries of the Interior, the State Security Committee... to ask for something from Latvian citizens who have suffered here themselves? It's not ethical, it's not moral. But the question is, why not demand any responsibility from Russia? Only from Latvia. Think about this! I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U83	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U84	The Commission had a wide-ranging debate on proposal 2 too, but proposal 2 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U85	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 20, it's against - 55, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U86	3. - Mr Valaina's proposal. In fact, invites to supplement the draft law with “Latvijas Mazpulks”. Thus, even after a wide-ranging debate, this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U87	Members have not applied for a debate, but have asked for a vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U88	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. In fact, linguistic clarification. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U90	On the other hand, five. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. In fact, it is related to the purpose and tasks of the law. Member Valainis wants to clarify objectives and tasks. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U91	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U92	6. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. There is also paragraph 1, that is, the purpose of this law. The proposal was not supported by the Commission following a wide-ranging debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U93	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U94	Congratulations again! So with this proposal, we are actually starting to work on the logical arrangement of the bill according to what declarations the Saeima has previously accepted - the condemnation of totalitarian regimes, the crimes committed by them and, in various ways, trying to make good the damage we have... for the politically oppressed, regardless of their nationality. I will quote this proposal with regard to Article 1 “The purpose and purpose of the Law”: “The purpose of this Law is to restore justice and, with a good will, to compensate for the historical unjust consequences of the Soviet Communist and Nazi totalitarian regimes in the territory of Latvia, on the basis of the fact that the State of Latvia is not responsible and is not responsible for the nationalisation of the property under the Soviet occupation of Latvia.” I don't even really know what a lot of comments can be made here. In my opinion, it is very precise what happened on the territory of Latvia between 1940 and 1945... and for subsequent years until 1991. This proposal is certainly much better and more precise than the original draft law had set the objective of this law, where, interestingly, the crimes of the Communist regime were not clearly highlighted. It was basically only about the nationalisation of property that took place during the occupation of the USSR, in fact trying to remove from the pages of history the facts that the Soviet Union was both carrying out the deportation of people and simply physically liquidating the people of our country. I admit that this is also the reason why the party “Consistence” is so keenly in favour of this initial “Development/About!” the wording of the draft law submitted. I call for support to be given to this proposal presented by the National Alliance, which thus makes it very clear about the crimes committed by Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, and also highlights this fact that the state of Latvia is not responsible for these crimes; that all the far-reaching law is really a compensation for good will, but that the state of Latvia is not to blame for what these two totalitarian regimes have done. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U95	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U96	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I do not really think that in our midst (in our wider sense, among today's voters), too, those who support the version proposed by the commission and proposed by the authors of the bill would be many who think that this is a draft law of truly good will and that it has something to do with justice. I do not think that many might believe that sorting and expressing human suffering in monetary terms can really be called good will. For example, suffering from one nation is measured in certain millions of euros per year, while suffering from another is measured in some tens of thousands. Whatever, but justice is not, and good will is not. If we were to discuss this with the supporters of this idea, too, then... I don't think many would dare to call it a good will. Of course, I think at best - at best! - there would be a reference to the interests of strategic partners (at best!) , because, of course, the motives often include various powerful economic groups and the need to maintain good relations with these groups, such pragmatic considerations, but yes, among such good, pragmatic considerations, which can also be understood, sometimes the opinion of Latvia's strategic partners... maintaining relations and so on. And this argument is understandable, because I also believe that our main strategic partners - these are the best possible partners, and we must do everything to make this relationship good. However, there are limits and laws in the partnership as well. We have a number of parties that present themselves as a partnership expert, then... I think they will not allow me to lie that any good partnership must maintain its bounds of respect. And never... and it is necessary to ask why this partnership is going on. The partnership is obviously in order to fulfil the same goal, which is recorded in the Latvian Constitution, so to guarantee the Latvian nation, its peoples... the existence and development of its culture and language from time to time. It is also necessary for the partnership to be able to carry out other functions of an independent state. And the function of an independent state is definitely to defend its peoples... the good words of the victims, their honour and their dignity, including the politically repressed honour and dignity, and this is some red line that... Good partnership must be defended. That's why, please, today... I have no illusions about the outcome of the vote, nor do I intend to speak very actively on every proposal, but for those who will vote with the Commission who did not support these proposals from the National Alliance, I would ask myself to answer two questions openly. Firstly, what is the real motivation, why will you vote with the Commission? Why will you not support the National Association? And secondly, is this price proportionate? Is that why our country exists... and which is our fundamental duty as Heads of State vis-à-vis our citizens... Is this principle not currently sacrificed in the name of good partnerships? And answer that, please, be honest with me. I call for support for the specific proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U97	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U98	In the Commission, proposal 6 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U99	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 17, no one for - 57, no one for - 57. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U100	7. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. This was also not supported by the Commission. And it's about target formulation.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U101	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U102	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I would really like to speak in favour of this and, in fact, all the next proposals, because they are about the same thing. So it's about this group... Well, actually the community, the group... whatever we want to call, whatever... the reimbursement of good will. I would like to remind you once again that we are looking at the second reading... At present, it is also possible to make proposals at the third reading. And in this case, I have specifically mentioned several communities, but it is possible that their scope should be extended. So, both Latvians, Jews, Belarusians and the Roma... German... and perhaps there are other communities that have really suffered. My colleagues have also talked a lot about historical aspects, where perhaps I cannot go into such a deep, aware of the fact that knowledge of colleagues is wider in this particular context, but I would like to point out that this basic draft law we are debating today could really be wider, because we could talk much more about each community... the pains and this will for good... which we could then also try to reward, thus closing down those pages of history that are always being discovered. The second important point is to look at the opinion of the Minister for Finance, where the Minister for Finance points to, in my view, two essential things. The first is that this amount of financial resources, which would be paid out within ten years, is available in the state budget. Apparently, it could be similar to other communities... Let's say, in the form of a cost. But the second key question is that, in fact, no matter which society, community or any other organisation receives these funds from the state budget, it should not be forgotten that they are taxpayers' funds, they will have to be used in accordance with Latvian laws and regulations, including - the laws and regulations related to money... So the waste of money, and actually... there must therefore be control over this. The Minister of Finance also points out that the Ministry of Justice would have an obligation to conclude a contract through someone... Thus, an organisation, whether it is a fund for the integration of society, which seems very justified, or another organisation, in order to distribute, control and, let us say, be used as a gesture of a truly good will for a particular community. In this case, we could certainly expand the number of these communities, and these funds could also be definitely larger than... as I said before, you could debate it, but... Therefore, of course, this use must be followed; it is essential, because it is, so to speak, the money of all of us, the taxpayers. In conclusion, I would like to say that there are indeed a number of issues that we have long been very sensitive to. Someone has tried perhaps to build political capital on these sensitive issues as well, but now, with the courage and in fact, with the courage to take a step towards those communities that are worthy of good will at the moment, too. At the Commission meeting, it was sad to see the President of the Roma community... a subsequent refusal. Well, my colleagues, this isn't doing, let's say, good will... such a gesture against these communities. I call for the scope of the bill to be extended, for it to be debated by the Commission and for this reimbursement to be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U103	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U104	Dear colleagues, I really call on those who have not done so to open up the draft law proposals and to get to know them carefully. The proposal put forward by Ralfa Nemiro is far from perfect, but it is certainly better and more correct than the draft law-makers initially... this supported proposal for Article 1. So Ralph Nemir says in his proposal that the nationalisation of the property by the Soviet occupation regime and other actions... This is certainly not the right wording, but it is certainly more correct than this originally supported version, where there is no mention of the crimes committed by the Soviet occupation regime, which also resulted in the death of a large number of Latvian Jews. I would like to refer to the Saeima Declaration on the condemnation of the totalitarian Communist occupation regime of the Union by the Soviet Socialist Republic in Latvia. This declaration makes it very, very clear that during the entire period of occupation, the USSR purposefully implemented genocide against the people of Latvia. I don't even remember what it was called - PCTVL... or any of those parties at that time... but, in today's terminology, today's "coherence", where some of the Members have gone from one party to another. I would really like to call the draft lawers independently, whether Mr. Bikše or Mr. Drukše or Mr. Skride or Mr. Stein... I don’t know who from Development/About! ... could apply for a debate and explain why in your draft law you have ignored the fact that the Soviet occupation regime implemented genocide on the territory of Latvia. I really call for you to come to the debate and explain it, because it is actually an essential nuance, which runs counter to the documents approved so far, and it can also seriously undermine any further negotiations on crimes committed by the USSR on the territory of Latvia. I would also like to hear the arguments of the New Conservative Party, the New Unity, especially those from such a national flank in these parties, why you believe that we must exclude from the adoption of this law the crimes committed by the Soviet occupation regime and, above all, talk only about the crimes committed by Nazi Germany. I really understand the reasoning why these proposals seem to be very harmful, wrong and why they are very happy with Development/About! the version that they have submitted, which they are also passionately supporting, but why is it time to support the New Unity and the New Conservative Party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U105	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U106	In the Commission proposal 7 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U107	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 18, it's against - 54, it's abstaining - it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U108	8 / 8 - a proposal from my colleague Ralph Nemir. Expands the number of beneficiary communities. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U109	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U110	Dear President, Honourable Members! Why did the Commission not support this proposal? Because this draft law does not even provide any fairness at all to support. Why? If you notice and read carefully, for example, there is no mention of the “ŠAMIR” Society. It is not the only organization of the Jewish community in Latvia that has imagined that they would be entitled to some compensation paid in good faith, let us say. So one group is meant here. When we get to proposal 22, we will see that the money is not even earmarked for this community, but for a completely different fund with a different account number, represented by three frauds, one of which is linked to a violation of US sanctions. But we'll see you by 22. So on this proposal. I call for this support because justice must be restored to all Latvian citizens, against the people of Latvia, as mentioned in the Constitution of Latvia. And here Mr. Pimenov mentioned a rather insulting thing that the Latvians had been very easy, because, if you saw a Jewish or someone else, let's say, the Roma, put it in a concentration camp, then he would have been very hard, but a Latvian could live there easily, so to speak, because it was quite different for them. I would like to recall one extremely interesting document in my hands, which is the decision of the Central Committee of the Union Communist Party, adopted on 15 April 1938, which provides for and allows the Commissioner for the Interior to continue the operation by destroying a spy-diversity contingent that consists of - attention! - Poles, Germans, Latvians, Estonians, Finnishs, Greeks, Iranians, Harbinians, Chinese and Romanians. So here's exactly... Although the Soviet system promoted internationalism and the citizens of the Soviets, when it was necessary to begin killing people, there was no reason why their ethnic origin was listed. In this list, the Jews are not mentioned, by the way, Mr. Pimenova! Just for some reason Germans, Latvians, Estonians, Finnishs, Poles. But what is interesting is that this decision states: leave the extrajudicial trial until 15 April 1938. What does it mean to ‘remain out-of-court proceedings’? I would like to remind Mr Pimenova that in the Soviet jargon "out-of-court" means "troika", where simply took and sentenced the death penalty without any trial. Who has signed this decision? This decision has also been signed by ethnic representatives of different nationalities - Stalin (which was a Georgian), Molotov, Kaganovič (do not know what he was a national), Vorošilov, Mioan (I think the Armenian), Chubar... So, you see, it's not ethical to say that it was easy for Latvians to shoot them, but for representatives of other ethnic groups it was hard. I therefore call for support for Mr Nemir's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U111	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U112	Thank you very much to my colleague Kirštein, who gave an accurate insight into history. But, my fellow Members, with no illusions that this proposal could be supported in the light of the vote from 1 to this proposal, I call: colleagues, close this page and, as a result, start to draft a law... Another unfortunately identical draft text, which would be the "goodwill law" without communities and so on. Why? Because then we could talk to experts in the Commission about this good will... Poles, Belarusians, Latvians in the end (very important!) , for other nationalities, perhaps for religious organizations, perhaps for other organizations, which have been caused by the Soviet occupation... So the Soviet occupation power. We could discuss these issues fairly, understand them. The Ministry of Finance will also participate in these discussions, give its opinions, and close these pages. It is a mature country's ability to admit some errors, perhaps not its own, but in this case close these pages closed so that we do not see a future discussion again and, to be honest, also insults. Because, as I said earlier, indeed a representative of the Roma community was, in my opinion, sufficiently offended that we did not allow the opinion of another community to be expressed on one actually fundamental issue as well... and also to take this into account, because indeed we were able to discuss these issues within the framework of a single draft law. That might result in a slight jealousy with regard to the extent of good will compensation between communities - this could, of course, be the case - but if the community - one, the other or the third - had agreed about the meetings of the panel, then the matter would have also been deleted and we could move forward. Therefore, it seems very funny to me that, at this point, when we are talking only about extending the scope of the bill and establishing good legislative practice, we do not write the law to a single person or to a single community or something... no one, but we are talking about a broader scope, which applies as a regulation to all, then at the moment - no, we will not. Well, nothing crazy, this bill to go ahead, I even call for it to be supported, but then we come back, colleagues, to other communities. Not sometime as this year approaches, let's say, autumn, when perhaps the pre-election in the vortex will lose many of their logical, rational ability to judge, but right now. At present, the draft law is in second reading, there is no problem - we are creating another draft law, which we are submitting to the same commission. Maybe even at some point we combine them together. But I fully agree that the opinion of the Minister of Finance must be, and it would not be justified by the weather. They should be determined by experts, the commission should prove, and then the finance minister should look at how this issue... to finance these communities. So I am also calling very much for a demonstration of the good will of other communities... of the State. We will certainly also talk about the Latvians to whom this would be due. But to do so, we need a foundation. I had tabled proposals to do so in this draft law. But if not, I call for a new bill to be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U113	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U114	In response to Mr Kirštein's statement. You know, you're giving me your wish, Alexander. It is done by opponents when there is nothing to say in defence of their observations. — Sound Break. ... that Latvians were very easy - such phrases are not at all in my lexicon. And never... I wasn't even... It's hard to imagine that I could talk about it. First of all, I am talking about the fact that during the war, it meant death - one hundred percent. The situation was completely different for all other Latvian and other ethnic residents. It's hard for me to imagine that you, Alexander, don't understand. It was just a story. Secondly. On the repression of Latvians in the Soviet Union in 1937 and 1938. It really was a genocide against Latvians. On several occasions in the Saeima (also in this parliamentary term, including the previous one) I had spoken and called on the Saeima Presidium to place flowers at the Freedom Monument on the first Sunday of December, on the day when we could really agree together and remember those Soviet Latvians who died during the great terror. Last year, I have tabled a proposal to relocate and mark this day, not on the first Sunday of December, when the date remains hidden and only national flags with black stripes remind people that something has ever happened... And why these memories are noted at all, hardly anyone can explain. I think this is still a homework that has not been done in Latvia, and... the date which the country of Latvia mentions with chewed teeth. I would like to repeat that we have three memorial days when we remember the unjustly convicted, expelled and shot. Two commemorative days - 25 March and 14 June - are traditionally drawn to public attention, preparations are made in time, and are held solemnly. The members of the government and the Saeima Bureau place flowers at the Freedom Monument in Riga, conferences are held. On the first Sunday of December, however, nothing like this happens. The Memorial Day is held quietly and unobtrusively. Why is this happening? I think because it's just this date of memory and the events you talked about, Mr Kirstein... very embarrassing - however, gives our country's elite inconvenience. These events took place before 17 June 1940, from which the authorities have used to deduct the chronicle of disasters in Latvia. In addition, December Day also refers to a country that our elite of power does not want to think about. And when thinking about the victims of the great terror, Latvians would inevitably have to draw broad conclusions that are incompatible with the current ideological and political clichés ruling in the Republic of Latvia. If you are in favour of really mentioning those victims in Latvia, I invite you, however, to come with flowers at the Freedom Monument on the first Sunday of December next year and invite your party members and other Members to do the same. So far, only a small group of people are doing this. I think it is a great shame for our politicians, and you have a good choice, Mr Kirštein, to join us. That would be an expression of a really good will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U115	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U116	Dear President, Honourable Members! Well, see, Mr. Pimenov, we've already agreed. Just why next year? We have the chance to start right now... failed to perform works. I hope that you will vote and support all the proposals of the National Alliance, because they contain exactly what you are saying here - that historical justice needs to be restored; that is what this proposal is. I hope you will vote in favour. And not next year, but let's start doing it now! So our proposals are just as much - to restore historical justice to all people, people of all nationalities in Latvia who have suffered not only from German occupation, but also from the Soviet occupation. And start now, not next year! I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U117	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U118	We are currently examining a very specific draft law, which you well remember, that is “the law on the reimbursement of good will to the Jewish community in Latvia”. And I call on you just not to expand the subject of the law and speak very specifically. If we want to do what we are now called on to do by the National Association... This would mean that we simply want to transfer this law to the next term. This political cunning is obvious. I think everything needs to be done consistently, step by step. Thank you to those who have drafted this bill and submitted it to the Saeima. This should have been done for the Latvian institutions and the government for a long time. If this is done, let us now address this problem as soon as possible. And let's also solve other problems! Once again, Mr Kirstein, come to the Freedom Monument next December. Of course, you may still be a Member, so you will have every opportunity to invite your constituents to mark... Latvians died in the Soviet Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U119	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U120	In the Commission, the proposal 8 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U121	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 17, 58, abstaining. The proposal is not supported. Colleagues, before the end of the notice. On the last day of last year, our colleague Mārtiņš Bondars celebrated a round anniversary and we congratulate him. Thank you. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U122	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Please accept, too, the health, success and energy wishes for this year. We continue the agenda of the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 6 January 2022 with a draft law on the reimbursement of good will to the Jewish community of Latvia. And we shall continue to work on proposal 9. Member Mārtiņš Bondars on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U123	(Sound rupture) ... Proposal by the Legal Bureau, which also clarifies the purpose of the draft law. This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U124	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U125	Members of the Saeima usually rely on the opinion or specialisation of the Legal Bureau, but in this case I believe that the Legal Office could work much better and more effectively, because there are, in fact, two problems that I see here, both in this proposal and in the context of the opinions delivered by the Legal Bureau. Number one. A very similar document, similar to this document, is the law on the determination of the status of a politically repressed person as a victim of the Communist and Nazi regime, with a separate title, for example, specifically for victims of Nazi crimes - as it is determined, which are they, which they must not be, who can receive compensation which cannot be reimbursed. In other cases... I can refer, for example, to the draft law on e-government, where... the Legal Bureau said that this really very large and new draft law should not be directed as a separate law, but should be included in an existing law. It is not very clear why the Legal Bureau has had any derogations and it is not proposed to include the substance of this proposal, for example, in the law on privatisation or in the law on the status of politically repressed persons already mentioned. The second nuance relates specifically to this proposal and the final part of this proposal, where it has been said that in order to restore justice and to provide support to the Jewish community in Latvia, “to compensate for the cadastral value of immovable property not recovered in the process of restoration of property rights”. So I have a question: what cadastral value is this talking about? As we know, these documents from representatives of the Jewish community in Latvia or, more precisely, from this small group, which has a very poor reputation, are not closely related to the cadastral value. So the cadastral value changes all the time. At one point, it is 20 million, then 47 million; we are now talking about 40 million. It is therefore very problematic to say that this draft law has any connection to the cadastral value of real estate. If that were the case, we should include in the draft law a very precise formula that, for example, the cadastral value is paid multiplied by, for example, a coefficient of 0,8. It is not included in this draft law. Therefore, in my opinion, it is wrong, especially on the part of the Legal Bureau, which should nevertheless provide such an expertise, to include such, in fact, the rules of the Falsa. If we are talking about the reimbursement of good will, then it is the reimbursement of good will. If we try to attach the cadastral values here, then it is simply not true, or then we need to show a concrete calculation of how this amount is formed - 40 million. I call you, however, for the third reading... should perhaps also the administration of the Legal Bureau to join this very financially intensive draft law and really try to arrange it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U126	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U127	Dear President, Honourable Members! If we read this text carefully... Of course, the will of Latvia's state is not contrary to Latvia's Constitution to divide Latvian society and make 90 ethnic or 120 ethnic groups that we could count here in Latvia - people of different origins belonging to different ethnic groups... make a separate law for each. I think it would be very silly if we really wrote a act of good will to Latvians, a law of good will or a law of desire for the compensation of property to Poles, a law of good will... Let's say, the desire to compensate the Livs and so forth. Thus, in my opinion, it is an unethical sentence that the good will of the Latvian state... The right will of the state of Latvia can be expressed in the vote of the nation, not in such documents, where it is not even planned to give to all Jews living in Latvia, but only to one single community... And next. Looking at the cadastral value is just funny. We asked the assistants to call the local authorities where... these addresses were mentioned, and our attention was attracted by the fact that the list of these draft law authors... Well, obviously Mr. Krautnikov, with a few people... Having said that - that such funny amounts appeared there - say, EUR 90, EUR 250... You know, it reminds me of anecdotes about a man who saved the child who fell into the nanny. When the child grows up, he comes and says to the man, “Where was my knitted hat?” So when calling these municipalities, it turned out that there were some areas overgrowed. One place had been imposed several years ago on the Jews... a monument whose municipality would be willing to give to any Jewish society, or public organization, but they do not want to do so. Then there were some semi-crushed buildings that were offered to owners, such as... This is concrete; if I am interested, I can also show you more detail, but I will not spend time at this point. For example, a South African citizen had arrived and was interested in the property. They told him he didn't need them, and he left. So, a completely pointless list that is being... some properties are used for the needs of the whole society, some properties are not owned or needed at all. And here are the proposals put forward by the National Association. There is a clear explanation of how the funds should be distributed and allocated and how to look, say... But you can't refer to some kind of cadastral values that... I don't know where it comes from... and which are extremely inaccurate, and which... of course, requires a check. I am ready to wager that at least one third of these mentioned properties would be very happy to hand over to any society that would be ready to take them in this situation. So... I'm not saying it's bad. That is very inaccurate. This completely does not correspond to any good will of the state of Latvia. But... Well, I understand that political corrections would not write that some of the draft laws that have been drafted are in line with... That is why I am abstaining and will not take part in this vote at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U128	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U129	In the Commission, Proposal No 9 was supported. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the cadastral values are mentioned and fixed in Article 3 of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U131	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK, which is also related to the purpose and tasks of the law. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U132	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U133	Colleagues! We've already talked here several times that actually, if such a law is passed, then... According to the Constitution, it is either discriminatory to others who have been in a similar situation... and therefore is not intended to provide them with fair compensation through this law, or... Then the Saeima will have to adopt, at a very rapid pace, a number of other laws that would answer... for the suffering of other ethnic groups during totalitarian regimes. It is also not excluded that these issues, which have already been marked by the Union of Greens and Farmers or, more precisely, by Mr Valaiņš, with his proposal on the "Latvijas Mazpulams"... that many of the real estates deprived of many societies will have to be remunerated, because this will result from such a political logic that, if they are remunerated, they will have to be remunerated to everyone - it cannot be compensated now by one ethnic group and the others will be discriminated against. This proposal from the Group of the National Alliance would thus make it very clear that if we were to extend this law... if we extend this law to be final and end all victims of totalitarian regimes with any other right of claim on the immovable property not recovered during the restorative, as well as with regard to other types of damage and damage... This law would not affect other real estate... restoration of rights which shall take place in accordance with the procedure laid down by other regulatory enactments. It would be really right that by one law we would therefore terminate the right of any claim on the part of non-governmental organizations against the state of Latvia - it would be more precise to bring these claims against Russia as the heir of the USSR! - the property taken away, the property destroyed, the property taken away, the property destroyed, the property stolen... and so on. I invite you to support 10. - a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U134	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U135	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to remind you that the 10th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U136	Please call me! We will vote on the 10th proposal submitted by the National Associations "All for Latvia!" - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” group! Please, let's vote! - 15, 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U137	11. - Member Nemir's proposal. Partly supported and included in proposal 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U138	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U139	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U140	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U141	Hello, colleagues! With regard to this proposal, I would simply like to thank the Legal Bureau of the Saeima for the wording of this proposal. I think it is important enough in this bill, and it implies that... This issue has also been raised recently in the debate... Thus, ‘The compensation provided for in this Law shall be final and shall terminate any right of claim of the Jewish community of Latvia in respect of real estate not recovered in the course of the renewal process’. I would remind you that in this draft law we are talking specifically about the issue of unrecovered real estate. And this proposal by the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission, means that a point is actually being put to the point. I think the point is necessary in this case. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U142	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U143	Mr Feldman quite rightly pointed out that this proposal could put an end to the claim of the Jewish Community of Latvia concerning the restoration of property rights. But - it will certainly create many because many comma regarding the rights of claim of other communities! I will give you an example. There are many Latvians who have not recovered their real estate, for example, in Abrene County. In the district of Abrene, there were enough farms and properties in the city that could not be recovered after the occupation of the USSR. Just like... There are, of course, a whole range of properties that were taken away by different associations and then these rights were not restored. There are also cases about which Mr Kirštein mentioned - that the property was owned by a public limited liability company whose shares were held, for example, by a Latvian or maybe a Belarusian... Well, what's the situation... and which also had no possibility of recovering these real estate. Therefore, I can certainly say that this draft law, if left unchanged, will create a great deal of claim rights, which will certainly not be rejected in court, because otherwise there will be a contradiction with Article 91 of the Satversme of Latvia, which provides: “All people in Latvia are equal before the law and the court. Human rights shall be exercised without discrimination." And because one family member closer to the former sponsor of the party is the most direct fearer of this law, for example, Mr Judine is very active against other laws, except for this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U144	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U145	Dear President, Honourable Members! Mr Feldman must have been too young to remember all this history and too naive to praise or praise such proposals. I will just remind you that similar statements have been made that the issues have been resolved and there will be no demand... It began in 1993 when a whole line of property was returned to a Jewish cultural association representing a completely different organization. So next. Here it is said that there will be no demand from the Jewish community, but why not another society, say, the “ŠAMIR” society, which has legitimate and legitimate demands... and who are not at all related to this war, but are related to the great work that this Society does, for example? I would remind you that the property was returned in 1993. We started with the building where the “Jews in Latvia” museum is now located. It was not recorded in the Land Register as property because there were outstanding liabilities there, or rather it was a burden... was returned in 1997. In 2017, residential houses in Daugavpils, Liepaja, hospitals, schools... school buildings... and each time said that its demands were final. Write inside that any claims are final and infinitive is not too serious, because then there is such a question: if Latvia adopts this law, it will cease to finance, for example, Jewish schools... The high school of Judaism named by Shimon Dubnov? Every year Latvia allocates funds to various Jewish museums: the Jewish Museum “Jews in Latvia”, the Riga Ghetto and the Latvian Holocaust Museum, the Žāņis Lipke Memorial... When we asked Mr Krupņikov in the Commission - whether these amounts are counted (let us say how much will be paid over the next 10 years) in those 40 million, whether these amounts are in addition, of course, we did not receive any answers, and whether they could be provided to any association (whether it be a cultural society or an ethnic society... nationality, whether it is based, let us say, on some educational measures and requirements)... each Saeima elected by the people of Latvia or citizens of Latvia shall have the right to grant or refuse the relevant funding. As I said and will improve, the chairman of the Commission, Mr Bondara, said that there is a list of all these companies and properties for which the cadastral value has been calculated... then I would like to say again that this list is a fiction, I can submit it to these tests, for example... starting with Varaklans School Street 9A, about which municipality wonders why they can't give up this property in any way. It has a value of EUR 315, an unholy, abandoned building. Or see below - Skolas iela 29, cadastral value 813 EUR. Again, there is no owner, no unnecessary property. In Subate, we see, for a land of EUR 203 614 square meters, there was once a synagogue. That's what I said about this South African citizen, and I could call and call it here. Riga, Bauskas iela 37 - unused warehouses, no one needs it. Go and collect that building and stop asking for some compensation! Bauskas Street... That's Bauska, Riga Street 35. It's a sink. Several years ago, there was a single object of sculpture. Why should some property be claimed for this? And so on. I could call and call it here. We can see that there is no serious list, but we will continue to talk about financial issues. But the most important thing, as I said, is to ask or say here that something is final is total stupidity. Any Latvian society (any - ethnic, political), like the parties, can claim, and each Saeima can decide whether or not to grant this compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U146	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U147	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! However, I do not believe that it would be appropriate to praise this proposal for two reasons. First of all, this proposal, colleagues, if we look at it, is about real estate. There is movable property and real estate. So here, in this proposal, we are talking only about real estate. If, for example, a community in the future bring an action for the will of movable property, for the loss of movable property, then this praise, in my opinion, is due to the fact that it will indeed be justified to request compensation for the loss of movable property. Then movable property can be much more valuable than real estate. A bright example of time will be what Mr. Kirstein touched on, pointing out the cadastral values and certain real estate... in general the need. But the movable property - it would, of course, be a question. That is why, in these proposals that I have tabled, I have already... I have tried all the time, colleagues, to mention: open a page, prepare a bill with experts, and close this page together, both with regard to movable property and with regard to immovable property, and with regard to all communities on which there is some reason to turn and demand the reimbursement of good will. Therefore, yes, at present, at second reading, such a proposal is, in my opinion, acceptable, but perhaps for the third reading, however, it would be possible to clarify precisely in the context of the movable property. But conceptually, once again, colleagues! - I would like to remind you that we are going to look at a very narrow chapter here from the history book, very many chapters will not be offended and will not start to debate them and look at them in general and at their essence... and in a specific context with other communities. Poles, Latvians... all those communities that could actually come to the Commission to provide evidence of the extent of the reimbursement, including their merits. It will be necessary, it is simply not analysed here. I believe that this proposal is to be welcomed, but in no case is it to be praised, because there are some more details that will certainly have to be discussed. In addition, every item or article of the law is, in time, also subject to change and change. So today it will not be cut into a stone, it will or will not be supported, but in the future someone may be concerned about this issue, it will be opened up, perhaps slightly modified, ultimately suddenly changed, because it will prove to be something else in compensation... Then, however, there will be a desire to compensate yourself. This is absolutely possible and cannot be ruled out. I am calling for this proposal to be supported, but for the third reading, perhaps still think about more precise wording. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U148	I closed the debate. Mr Bondara, on behalf of the Commission, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U149	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that 12. - The legal bureau's proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U150	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 60, against and abstaining. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U151	13. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Also supported by the Commission. This clarifies Article 2 in a linguistic way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U153	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - National associations... Yes, National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. It is envisaged that Articles 3 and 4 be merged. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U154	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U155	Colleagues, this is a very important proposal, and I really call for a look into it. On the side of the National Alliance, we propose that the total amount of compensation to be paid is kept fixed, with the will of EUR 40 million being good. Of course, this amount can be increased in theory, but it is therefore a reward of good will... but fundamentally change the way these funds will be paid out. At first... The draft law proposes that this money be simply actually transferred to a fund with some very poor financial standing, and then those people would manage these 40 million. In its proposal, the National Association proposes to set up a specific national budget programme entitled ‘The means to compensate victims of good will in totalitarian regimes’ and to pay this cost through the State Culture Capital Fund. It is not in principle - that it must definitely be the State Culture Capital Fund - it could be the Society Integration Fund as well, it may be another fund that already works in the country, where specific mechanisms have been developed, as then this work of experts is ongoing, which evaluates the various projects that have been submitted, where the mechanism has been developed, and then a report on the use of the funds is made. So we offer to create a special programme at the State Culture Capital Foundation, where representatives of many non-governmental organizations, including the Jewish Community of Latvia, where the National Cultural Society of Latvia could participate, could participate in the Association of Politically Repressed People of Latvia and other organizations, which would then also decide on the use of funds. What would we benefit from this? We would certainly get a much more accurate overview of where these public budgets go. We would prevent any accusations about any kind of discrimination... If we look at the original version, it assumed that funds could be used, for example, to cover medical services... Mr Suharenko, for example, now, what is absurd... for the law does not forbade it. In this case, for example, these funds are being channelled to provide various rehabilitation or health services directly to the victims of totalitarian regimes, for which this number of years is indeed significant and necessary. Various cultural activities could also be supported. The maintenance and restoration of monuments and monuments could be supported. Participation in various national events for people from the regions and many other activities could be supported. So this funding could move through the State Culture Capital Fund, but it could also be another fund that is already in existence, not so that we trust it to be administered by three gentlemen with such a sufficiently dubious reputation. I would like to say something more about this proposal. Yes, we offer to combine verses 3 and 4. Mr Bondara said that Article 3 refers to this calculated cadastral value - 47 million - but that he was also unable to answer, first, how exactly that value has been calculated, second, if 47 million have already been calculated, why the compensation is 40 million. Also, on the part of the Legal Office, it had to be noted that this should not be the case that it is not justified why the amount of compensation is suddenly 40 million. We have recently examined the draft law on the termination of shared property - there was a sufficiently clear justification for this. I therefore call for support to be given to this proposal presented by the National Alliance. That would substantially sort out the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U156	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U157	Yes, colleagues, Mr Dombrava has already drawn attention to the wording of Article 3. In my opinion, it is really legally absurd for one reason, so the amount of good will compensation. If we talk about the good will and its reimbursement, then the good will is always a unilateral gesture. We express a good will, give a reward to the extent that we have chosen to do so in our best interests. The amount of these funds is defined in Article 3 and then followed by a comma... ‘calculated on the basis of 16 June 1940’... and so on... As a result, the cadastral value of the properties belonging to the community, which is then re-notified and linked to 31 December 2018. The questions that need to be asked are: what is the point of 31 December 2018 and why are its values? Moreover, the cadastral values, as we know, change every year, they are flowing, they may be larger, they may also be smaller. Why do we at all see the text of this type of - behind the comma - in Article 3? I will perhaps also say both on proposals 14, 15 and 16, because they are linked. 16. There is my proposal, and in this case, I am calling for an amount of money to be set aside and not to debate it here, because it is irrelevant what has happened in 2018, 2019 or 2020, now we are already in 2022... and what have been the values when we are basically talking about good will. Good will is not associated with cadastral values, but for a given period. In this case, the main point would be the opinion of the Minister for Finance on whether or not such a good will can be financed from the state budget. As we can see, this is a question... The opinion of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance have tried to find in the budget the means to find and pay such a proof of good will to the Jewish community from our taxpayers. The second case, which is important and follows practically in this opinion in the last paragraph, and the Minister of Finance points out that the Ministry of Justice should develop the use and supervision of these funds... Either, the definition of an institution which, in the future, would also take appropriate action to prevent God from making mistakes or knowingly... Let us tell you what reason these funds wouldn't come to some questionable institutions or maybe some kind of person... in your hands. This, in turn, could raise issues that I think no one really wants to answer, that is, money laundering, perhaps some other business. I just want to... in no case link it to community objectives, but with possible funds coming into the further stages of the chain, somewhere... where there would be additional questions for some other institutions. That is why this issue should certainly be touched, perhaps on the third reading, but it must be dealt with, because the opinion of the Finance Minister needs to be read, I do not know how many colleagues have taken note of these documents at all before they vote, but yet, if someone has not done so, I am asking you to read these documents. They are essential enough to draw attention to them. However, I call for a point to be made behind the level of remuneration and for attention to be paid to what has already been said - that these funds should be acquired through one of the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U158	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U159	Dear President, Honourable Members! We have to see that there is a small mess here, and if we do not support this proposal, we will to a certain extent only increase chaos. Why? Annotation we can read, including a reference, let's say... The Ministry of Foreign Affairs had also submitted a reference to the Teresin Declaration, to which Latvia has acceded. But where is the contradiction known? The idea of the Teresine Declaration originated in the Western countries, which had not occupied Soviet power, and in Latvia its situation is completely different. Teresin's declaration is written about it... it says that it is necessary to compensate for the abuse of German occupation, property and so on, and here I also agree with Mr Nemiro, if we stick to the Teresin Declaration, we should respect... gold withdrawn from individuals, money deposits, jewelry collections, securities - all valuable items and so on, so-called movable property. In Latvia, we cannot apply it in any way, because, as I said, we cannot return the securities - not the construction securities of Ķegums HES, nor other things. We can't give back either of the things that have been stolen by the Soviet functionalist in the Cheze apartment, because... in due time, we asked the Soviet Union to compensate for the damage caused, and more, let us say, the national forces, then for such claims and recovery from the USSR... and now Russia's successor in rights always resists the "Conclusion". And what happens now? There is a known chaos - referring to Teresin's declaration, which requires, by the way, to transfer only the property stolen by the Nazis, in Latvia these properties have been looted by Communists and Soviet occupations. That is why our idea - the idea of the National Alliance - is not to divide these funds! And people live as long as there is their memory! If we mention a figure of 40 million here, it is not such a big sum that it is fragmented in different ways. Why the State Culture Capital Fund? Because culture and education - they are obviously two main things to keep a memory of the dead, and it is quite natural that this money is not scattered and wasted for various purposes, but we believe that this money must be allocated mainly for the preservation of the memory, so for the ghetto museum... The Holocaust Museum, the Jewish Museum in Latvia, various memorials, the Lipke Museum, monuments and so on. If we start to split... You know, there are always hundreds and thousands of needs. We will not, for example, make two chapters of Stradiņš Hospital or Infectology Hospital – one chapter will treat Latvian citizens, the Latvian people, the other chapter will treat the recipients of good will compensation; some will eat thickbirds, the other will eat caviar bread. It won't be, it's funny. If we do not accept this well-defined and formulated proposal - to allocate money to cultural objects and, in any case, to consider, say, the Council at the State Culture Capital Foundation - then, believe me, what is in the 22nd proposal, which will not be adopted here. I can foresee that money will be allocated to a completely different fund with another account number, where three board members will divide it according to their own discretion. At the same time, if we look at existing laws, there is no prohibition on borrowing money from the fund or using it somewhere else. So once again, if we want to target precisely this aid for the preservation of the memory of the dead, for the development of culture and education, for museums, for memorials, for monuments, for it is entirely natural that this money is distributed by the Council, which is located at the State Culture Capital Fund. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U160	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U161	Colleagues! I would like to make a very brief point. This proposal really talks about the fact that these funds could be channelled through the State Culture Capital Fund, but now, I don't know, no one will, of course, submit arguments as to why the State Culture Capital Fund is not a lobby institution. I allow someone perhaps concerned that the National Union is running the Ministry of Culture and could do something bad in this context. But I would really like to turn to Mr Puce and say: support this construction as such, and at third reading I can guarantee that the National Association will vote for this institution being clarified - from the State Culture Capital Fund to the Society Integration Fund. Then, I thought, "Development/About!" will be able to sleep with a calm heart and will know that the National Association will not be able to do anything wrong with this fund. But I think that would be right. Why? Because these funds would then be channelled through the existing fund mechanism instead of being entrusted to a fund that has not had any experience of managing such funds. Well, if you don't count, some kind of money laundering involvement. Here in one situation we would direct this money through public institutions, in the other situation we are actually putting it under the control of three individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U162	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U163	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to remind you that the 14th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 17, no one for - 57, no one for - 57. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U165	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - my colleague Valaiņa's proposal. It also concerns Article 3. As you remember, Mr. Valaiņš wanted to add “Latvijas Mazpulkus”, and in the context of Article 3, it is also being done. So “Latvijas Mazpulki” is added... with real estate... which are attributable to them. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U166	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U167	16. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. It also concerns Article 3. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U168	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U169	It's very short. I had already spoken in favour of this particular proposal. Colleagues, so I am calling for a point to be made behind the amount of proof of good will in monetary terms and not to relate it to any dates, cadastral values, which today have no actuality at all. And there is no point in the law to mention this. Colleagues, I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U170	I closed the debate. For the Commission, Mr Bondara... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U171	16. proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U172	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please, let's vote! -13, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U173	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It shall specify in a language the words used in this Article. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U175	18. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. A clarification proposal is also needed. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U177	19. - a proposal from my fellow Member, Viktor Valaiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U178	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U179	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The linguistic words in Article 4 shall also be clarified. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U181	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - my fellow Member Nemir's proposal for Article 4. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U182	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U183	22. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. The exclusion of Article 5. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U184	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U185	Colleagues! I would like to add my voice to Mr Bondara, who said that the Commission had a very wide-ranging debate on many proposals, but at the same time I would like to add my criticism that, in my opinion, there was not enough information given to the members of the Commission on the real beneficiaries, on the fund that will receive EUR 40 million under this law. So it is proposed that these EUR 40 million will be transferred to the account created by the State Treasury, which is managed by the Latvian Jewish Community Restitution Fund, unitary Registration No. 40008252290 If we look at the “Lursoft” database about this foundation, about this foundation, then we see that there are three true beneficiaries of the foundation - it is not some mystical community with all the Jews in Latvia, there are three true beneficiaries - Vladimir Fogel, Leonīds Kiļs and Dmitri Krupņikovs. Looking for information, look for information, look for information, look for information! - it can be found that an individual has a very poor reputation for cooperation with persons on the sanctions list, money laundering, and so on. Dmitri Krupņikov, in turn (It is also a perhaps interesting story that I think it would be fair to tell). is Brother Grigory Krupņikov, who was once the grey cardinal of “New Time”, who has also been a donor to “New Time” and who has been in Czech bags, so he could not become a minister when he - Grigory Krupņikov - led him to this post. One of the first things Dmitry Krupņikov gained recognition in Latvia was that he was able to obtain large public orders through family members or through a party. It has all the information to be read, is publicly available and is in fact not rebutted in any way. Given that this is about entrusting a foundation of 40 million, led by three persons, it seems to me only logical that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, before further progress on the draft law, would have received comprehensive information that would reject all these suspicions of political interest, of money laundering, of various schemes that could potentially be used. And in fact, from the perspective of the country's reputation it would be a very, very tragic signal if the funds that the state of good will wanted to pay to the Jewish community of Latvia for the crimes committed during the occupation of totalitarian regimes would come under the responsibility of those whose accounts may be blocked one day by our strategic partners, because simply they should be included among those who cooperate with persons who, according to the legislation of the Republic of Latvia, cannot even cooperate with them under the general framework of the European Union. I really believe that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission was not allowed to direct this bill even at first reading further... forward, before getting full information about this foundation, about its perfect reputation, including these three board members and the only true beneficiary (Only true beneficiaries - Leonid Kiel, Vladimir Fogel and Dmitri Krupņikov are identified). the perfect reputation and ability to manage such funds in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U186	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U187	Dear President, Honourable Members! There's a little explanation here. Perhaps I will try to explain briefly to those who do not, how this fund is linked to the sanctions announced by the United States and how these sanctions are being violated. According to the Office of the SRSG on Children and Armed Conflict, he was responsible for recruitment and use of children under the control of the General Secretariat of the Council of the so-called ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. The known oligarch brothers Rotenbergi, who built a bridge from Russia to the occupied Crimea, fell under these sanctions. It is interesting that Russian citizens are only Arkadi Rotenberg, while his brother and cousin live in Finland, are Finnish citizens and logically against them, Finnish citizens, these sanctions are not applied because they are going to count... formally not intervened there, although money is, of course, common. Then there were extremely interesting things: the managers of different banks suddenly resigned, so the managers of the banks belonging to the Rotenberg brothers... including a bank that was in Latvia... and some banks changed their name in order to avoid these sanctions, but in fact the situation turned out to be that the same financial resources belonging to Arkady Rotenberg were washed out through various offshore banks in Cyprus, in different offshore zones... but also in Latvia. It is currently under the leadership of Mrs Znotiņa, the Financial Intelligence Service. We also made a more detailed request. The investigation has not yet been concluded. What I can say is that several million have already been arrested for this moment, which belongs to these brothers Rotenbergs, but the most interesting thing is that one of these financial operations in Latvia is the same person who... one of the three managing the governing board of this fund, for which the draft law provides for the allocation of EUR 40 million. I also pointed out in the Commission: until these results are known or the management board is changed, we cannot under any circumstances risk circumventing US sanctions in this way. I'm very surprised... The Minister of Justice of the new conservative party has always stressed that one of the main priorities of Latvia is the fight against money laundering, but the representative of this party consistently voted in the commission, despite the fact that it is known that the board of the foundation is connected... At least one person from this board is directly involved in this money laundering and a systematic violation of US sanctions is taking place, although this UK representative is consistently voting in favour of the allocation of 40 million. That is extremely surprising to me. So I think we cannot even look at the whole of this bill at all, and I think that its consequences can be rather unpleasant. One. Second. So this fund does not represent any Jewish community at all, they have a separate fund, and their money could be counted as well, say, on the “ŠAMIR” account and on the Jewish community account, it should have been divided rather than allocated to one group, which is absolutely not confused... the community is absolutely not confused that such people are under the leadership of this fund. I therefore call for this proposal from the National Alliance to be supported in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U188	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U189	Hello, colleagues! We live in the state of law, and as long as there is no court judgment, also several Saeima... 13. Members of the Saeima who are suspected of crimes, and even the prosecutor's office has accused them of their crimes, while the court has not ruled on their fault, continue to perform the duties of a Member, they continue to make decisions that affect all Latvian citizens. If we are talking about biography spots or, let us say so, such unknown or hidden pages, then I think Mr Kirštein also has a number of very serious things, let us say so, the facts in biography, both on the basis of the previous surname and on the basis of the KGB's repetitions and its nuances. I think we should be based on concrete facts and court judgments... are reflected in judgments, not in the interpretations of facts, in the personal interpretations of facts or in the interpretations that are desirable for themselves. So, I think, we need to be sufficiently responsible and not be manipulated with information and facts. I will not support this proposal. I also ask my colleagues not to support this either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U190	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U191	Colleagues, I certainly agree with what Mrs Švekova said: until the fault is proven, while man has the opportunity to maintain his reputation and try to justify his right. But I think, for example, that no fellow Member is going to put particularly sensitive information to Mr Adamson at the moment. Well, no colleague, given the suspicion that he was spying for Russia, would give him very sensitive information right now. Nobody. Until it is clear that he has really not been spying for Russia. Well, I don't know, I already feel so humorous if someone thinks everything's right there, but let it be. In this case, there are financial resources and reasonable suspicions of illegal activities. Then it is a question why the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, why the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) and why “Development/About!” How do the promoters of this draft law want to direct these 40 million at all costs through a foundation led by people of poor repute rather than through any existing national fund? If the aim is to really support the Jewish community of Latvia, then it can certainly also be done by directing these funds through an existing national fund, such as the Society Integration Fund or the State Culture Capital Fund. That is why I really call for this draft law to change its structure and for it to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U192	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U193	Dear President, Honourable Members! Thank you, Mrs. Schvekov. I was very impressed by what you said. I've never been tried, I've never been arrested by any means. And if you say here that you can transfer money without a court order to some kind of fraudulent organisation, you can also write a letter to the Financial Investigation Service to return the arrested funds, because without a court judgment, but with irrefutable evidence of money laundering, these funds have now been detained. And that's nothing that I think you don't know, because Latvian television, other Latvian media and media have reported on this. And there are not a few hundred thousand, but there are several million. So, Mrs Svekov, if you think that the arrest of millions is not enough to distrust such a fund manager or one of the leaders, then it is rather strange. One. Second. You publicly said here that you observed my previous name. I could show you my birth certificate and my school testimonies, for example, first-class and all sorts of different. I've never changed my name in my life. I never needed it because my ancestors had already lived... and their name can be found from the end of the 18th century, the beginning of the 19th century. Also, knowing the property they owned would be foolish if I had given up in some way and changed my surname... But let it remain on the conscience of Mrs. Schvekov, because I know that this version was distributed by the Russian security services and caught by people who have been involved in the KGB. In time, there was such a newspaper in Segodna where, we know, 80 percent...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U194	Thank you, Mr. Kirstein, it's over. Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U195	Mr Kirštein's criticism and suspicion is directed against the foundation "The Latvian Jewish Community Restitution Fund" and, in particular, against the board members of the Foundation. I would like to remind you that the foundation, or foundation, by definition, has no real beneficiaries. The fund is created directly as a cash charge, in which the funds provided are used to finance projects, and another task - all of them... to ensure the voluntary and fair use of these funds. That's a completely different story. This is not linked to this specific proposal. And even less so, this suspicion is related to the members of the foundation board. As I said, there can be no real beneficiary in the foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U196	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U197	Reflecting on what has been said about reputation information, I would also like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that, let us say, Mr Sparan, who is involved in organised crime, has been a long-standing partner, as well as a colleague for the head of our Legal Commission and the leader of the New Conservative Group. Well, I must say, I think the Saeima itself, the Members, and the politicians of the ruling coalition have something to think about and look at in the mirror. When colleagues look at others, it would also be worth seeing how politicians of the ruling coalition cooperate with... including crime organised by Russia and its representatives, both in Latvia and next to Latvia. We are careful in our conclusions and evaluations and also appreciate what we do ourselves! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U198	I closed the debate with a request to keep more in touch with the substance of the proposal. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U199	You are right, Madam President, that it would be ideal, by its very nature, to talk about the substance of the proposal, which is what these funds are being transferred to and where these funds will be stored. I would like to say that, in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, it did not go away in such a personal way, when debating this issue... These questions. I would just like to say that I agree with Mr Dombrava that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is not perfect. In short, the 22nd proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U200	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please, let's vote! There's no, 17, 55, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U201	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from my colleague, Viktor Valaiņš. In fact, a regional distribution of money is envisaged. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U202	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U203	24. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group of the "Fatherland and Freedom/LNPC" on Article 6. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U204	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U205	25. - Member Ralph Nemir's proposal. Regarding Article 6, too. Neither was the Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U206	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U207	Colleagues, I have to apologize. I understand that we can no longer return to the 24th proposal, but really did not have the opportunity to push the 'Application for a debate'. Nevertheless, I would like to speak on proposals 24 and 25, which, however, are very important and comprehensive. So the first point that we had proposed with regard to the clarification of this article was that these funds should be moved to preserve the memory of all the victims of totalitarian regimes in Latvia, including burial sites and memorials. The draft laws did not propose that these funds should be used for this purpose. We also offered that these funds should be diverted to the restoration and conservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the people living in Latvia under genocide and the Holocaust, as well as to the study of history, which is linked... with the history of this nation. Neither did the applicants propose such cases. We also offered that these funds should be diverted not only to individual museums, which are “Jews in Latvia”, the Memorial of Žāņa Lipke and similar, but also to the Museum of Occupation of Latvia. In fact, it is not clear why the draft law applicants have removed the Museum of Occupation of Latvia from this list, given that it is the central museum visited by all foreign diplomatic representatives and where a very important part of the exhibition is also devoted to the Holocaust implemented against the Jews of Latvia. We had also proposed that these funds should be used to host documentary and artistic films, to publish literary works about crimes of the Nazi and Communist regime on the territory of Latvia, as well as to manage the property of Latvian, Jewish and Roma societies. If we look at Mr Nemiro's proposals, it is also said more widely that these funds should not only be used to restore and preserve the cultural heritage of Jews, but also of Roma, Belarusians, German, Polish and Latvian. I, my fellow Members, would really call for a return to the 24th proposal, but if this is not possible, then, as a minimum, to support this, 25th proposal. At the moment, the list, which is on the part of the drafters of the law, is not complete, is not precise, neither is there any understandable reasoning as to why the commission rejected the proposal to supplement this list, for example with the Museum of Occupation of Latvia. Well, no argument came out. I hope that at least one of the New Conservative Party's or, for example, YOUNG COMMITMENTS, which has an active link with Latvians living abroad, will apply for a debate and will tell you why the Latvian Occupational Museum's exposition, which is dedicated to the Holocaust that has taken place in Latvia, is not important enough to be able to channel these financial resources there. Also - why these funds cannot be diverted to arrange and maintain memorials at various memorial sites. I would really like to hear these arguments why proposal 24 has been rejected and why proposal 25 has also been rejected by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. I call for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U208	We shall continue the debate on proposal 25. The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U209	Dear President, So once again, to those who may not have read the proposals, I will remind you of what the substance of the proposal is about. So the essence is that the objectives of the use of the funds from the state budget should be expanded and in this case the use of the budget funds for the implementation of activities and projects of Latvian communities in Latvia should be discussed first. So the package of these measures is listed in my proposal, too, but not only for the restoration and preservation of the cultural heritage of Jews, including Roma, Belarusians, German, Polish and Latvian. That's one. Second. Of course, these funds should also be used for charity, health care, science, culture, religion, education, sport and other essential sections, directly linked to the good will which would then enable these communities to maintain their historical heritage as well as the aims of the communities in some way to really link the resources that are provided for. I would like to say once again that the amount of funds earmarked for the Jewish community, in this proposal, we are not reaching out, but we are certainly talking about the interests of the wider communities and, to be honest, also the needs - not only of the Jews, but of the Roma, of the Belarusians, of German, Polish and, of course, of Latvian. This is very important because the proposal immediately marks the targets. In the past, Members have already spoken about concerns when funds may be misused in a hasty or unwitting manner and create legal consistency, and therefore perhaps a negative shadow as to how these funds are spent. Therefore, in this case, the proposal already records museum programmes, in particular: to support the Museum “Jews in Latvia”, Riga Ghetto and the Latvian Holocaust Museum, and Jean Lipke Memorial. And that is very important, but once again - not only about this, but also in a broader context, with regard to those directions and measures that are directly linked. Who else would want to do so, if not for specific purposes. This is not some kind of compensation, which is then collected by a very narrow circle for itself. Well, that can certainly not be the case if we are talking about public budgets. Therefore, in my view, colleagues, this proposal is perhaps not entirely precise from the point of view that it does not cover all needs and all groups or communities, but for the third reading we can clarify and expand the proposal, and I have, in the end, talked in this debate several times about the fact that we should open this page of history, as well as close it fairly. Experts shall be able to provide appropriate justification for the scale of the funds as well as for the purposes of their use. That is why I ask my fellow Members to really support, and that is the moment when we can be quite courageous, now that we are working on this draft law, to do it. If, once again, it is not supported, as I predicted, in the absence of illusions, then we will undoubtedly have to go back to another draft law of good will, in which we will talk about a wider range of people, those groups that we will have to talk about again. This is an opportunity to do so now, now and now. If not, I call once again on all the communities to turn to me, either as a Member or as other Members, to set up a group. That's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U210	Name to Member Ritvar Janson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U211	I would like to call for support for Mr Nemir's proposal. The “Jews in Latvia”, the Riga Ghetto Museum and the Latvian Holocaust Museum and the Žāņa Lipke Memorial will hopefully receive funds if this proposal is not supported. Hopefully, all the money will not flow to the West Bank or any other similar bank. However, in addition to the Nemir proposal to the third reading, it would certainly also include the Roma Museum of the ‘Roma Culture Centre’, which is already talking about a genocide against the Roma. Additional funding for this museum would be needed to become an accredited museum. This means that its collection would be accounted for as part of the National Museums' collection and would be systematic, regular research, not just individual research moments. I therefore call for support for Mr Nemir's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U212	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U213	Dear President, Honourable Members! Unfortunately, now 22 were rejected. - the proposal of a national association to delete Article 5 because the plan referred to there does not represent all Jewish organisations but only one community. As I said, the article does not represent, for example, the society “ŠAMIR” in any way or any other form. Proposal 25, as well as proposal 24, to which... I pressured, but for some reason I didn’t get to apply (and here, it turns out, others have also wanted to have a debate at 24.) (a.k.a. Therefore, proposal 25 must in any case be supported. Of course, one thing I want to say is 24. ... They are similar, it was much wider, there is a lack of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia. Why do I want to stress precisely the importance of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia? The Museum of Occupation of Latvia is such as the Museum of Museums. It is a museum that brings together all Latvian citizens. It is included in the composition of the national protocol procedures, let us say, the presentation of the situation of various delegations in Latvia, and especially the politicians of the latest generation who have grown up in the West, have a great wonder about much that they learn in Latvia. Unfortunately, as in Latvia, political parties change and Members change, it always happens every few years in Western parliaments and governments, and people who visit Latvia should rediscover the situation that we have had. Of course, due to the limited time it is impossible to visit all museums of Latvia, therefore, the Museum of Occupation of Latvia should in any case be included. In general, however, this proposal by Mr Nemir, as in the previous proposal, 24, actually highlights what we have said here before - the excess value, or the main idea, is to preserve the memory. Of course, most of the funds should be allocated to museums, monuments, memorials; there is no need to be too fragmented. Since we rejected the 22nd proposal, so that these funds are not subjectively distributed and allocated to various other needs (and the existing legislation in Latvia, as I said, does not prohibit, for example, a fund to lend money that is very needed), but... In this case, however, when adopting and voting on this proposal, it is clarified what these funds are allocated to. In any case, of course, there is an opportunity to complement the draft law with the next reading. I call for support. It would be very strange if we did not support this proposal at all. Then we are prepared to allocate 40 million without specifying exactly how money is spent. Here it is much better specified. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U214	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U215	In the debate on proposal 25, the idea was that the Museum of Occupation of Latvia would be left out of the possibility to receive funds, but I can tell you that there is 32. - The proposal of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, which includes the Museum of Occupation of Latvia. If you support proposal 32, it will be all right, but proposal 25 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U216	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - Member Nemir's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U217	26. - Mr Valaina's proposal. This is linked to budgetary targets and once again mentions the planning regions that we have rejected in previous proposals. Therefore, proposal 26 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U218	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U219	27. - The proposal from Member Edwin Schnore. Partly supported and included 28. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U221	28. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U223	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U225	30. - The proposal from Member Edwin Schnore. Partly supported and included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U227	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U229	32. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. That's what I mentioned. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U230	Thank you. Let's start a debate. But... Mr. Janson, you're not going to have one minute, that's...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U231	Then in the next part-session.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U232	So the next one. Thank you. Colleagues, it's time for a break. The debate is being suspended... for a break. The registration of Members' presence is over. Let's get back to work at 13:30. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U233	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 6 January 2022. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia”. We're at 32. - a proposal submitted by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Bondara has already reported on the proposal. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U234	I am very pleased that thanks to Member Edvinas Šnore, this Commission proposal also includes the Museum of Occupation of Latvia. The Museum of Occupation of Latvia, as a private museum, has just entered the reconstructed building in Riga, the Latvian Strings Square. In the summer, a new exposition will be opened in which, in the context of occupation history, the Holocaust will also be told against the Jews. The Saeima has a group of Members to support the Occupational Museum, unfortunately only formally, no initiative has come from this group, nor - the initiative to include the Occupational Museum of Latvia in this draft law. I therefore call on the members of the group, however, to support at least this proposal from the Commission so that the Latvian Occupational Museum can tell about both the Holocaust against Jews, the genocide against Latvians, and the Roma genocide and other repressions that took place during the period of the occupation of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U235	Thank you. The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U236	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to say that 32. - The proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission was supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U237	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! It's not about 52, it's against 1, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U238	33. - The proposal from Member Edwin Schnore. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U239	Let us start a debate. Member Edwin Schnore has applied for a debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U240	Hello, dear colleagues! The draft laws want the state to give money to the health care of one ethnic community today, i.e. 80 years after the Second World War. I already mentioned in the debate at first reading that this would be extremely unfair for all the other members of society. And then I was told that there would be a second reading and then it would be possible to submit its proposals; that perhaps some of the norms are really controversial and they could be changed. I have now tabled this proposal. Apart from me, a proposal has also been put forward by the Legal Office of the Saeima, which called for the rule on health care to be completely excluded from this draft law, because, as you say, it will indeed not be the case. Here, my proposal, in turn, is that, if this healthcare is mentioned once, it would only apply to those who have suffered in the Holocaust. It also provides, by the way, for the Teresin Declaration. Well, but the commission turned out to be... and I had such a suspicion that it would probably turn out to be... Mr. Rupņikov did not really use such a wording because he was there a sick person and so... and, as they say, it is necessary to extend everything to all, including the applicants belonging to this ethnic community. As a result, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima immediately withdrew its proposal and rejected my proposal to the Commission. In this case, I would like to say that, if we now reject this proposal at the Saeima, it will be bad for two main reasons. Firstly, it will be a precedent, a rule formulated and incorporated by law, a precedent that a single ethnic group is prioritised in receiving healthcare. And the other -- now it's pretty practical... In particular, this draft law also deals with cohesion and something like that. Everyone can already understand how such a norm will refer to the cohesion of society. Let's imagine, let's say, apartment house somewhere in Riga. Two adjacent apartments - two seniors living next to each other, with health problems and low pensions. And in such a situation one has the green corridor, everything for free, without line and so on, and the other, as he says, everything as ordinary people - rows, records, expensive and so on. There you go! And why is that? Well because it belongs to an ethnic group, so to speak, which is not a priority. I think it is absolutely clear what microclimate is going to be formed there soon and what impact this will have on society as a whole. It is quite clear that this draft law is in its current form... If this law is passed, it will not promote cohesion, but, on the contrary, increase intolerance among people in Latvia. And that is why I call for this situation not really to create and think about the public interest in general, in a broader context, to assess the consequences of this decision and for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U241	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U242	Colleagues! Member Edwin Schnore has already pointed to this absurdity and injustice that will arise if this proposal is not supported. We have had discussions in the Saeima about, for example, whether or not to provide health services to persons who have not been vaccinated against the Covide virus and have argued that this would be a sort of society - to determine who is then providing health services and who are not provided. Here again... There's probably Mr. Judin in his chair... This is a marked discrimination based on ethnic characteristics. This means that not those who have really suffered repression objectively, but simply because of their ethnic characteristics, will be provided with healthcare. If you are a Jewish, please come and receive this paid health care. Are you a Latvian, a Russian, a Belarusian? No, no, go away, you don't have to have such - paid - health care. Now I understand that colleagues from Development/About! hope that when they knock at the door, they will be told: “Well, you have supported this bill. It is nothing that you are not Jews - we will give you a pass, you will be able to blow in the same way when you receive this paid health care!” But I think you're all aware that it's absurd. Absord - Building health care by ethnic characteristics. Imagine what the reaction would be if any political power offered that state-paid healthcare is provided in future, for example, only for ethnic Latvians, but not for everyone else. Maybe you want to go to such a solution, too? Well, I don't think there, Mr. Judin will wake up from his deep lance... I call on Member Edwin Schnore to support the proposal and not to create absurd rules in our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U243	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U244	33. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U245	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - Member Edwin Schnore's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U246	34. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is, in substance, editorial. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U247	The Members in the debate have not applied. The proposal is supported by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U248	35. - The proposal from Member Edwin Schnore. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U249	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U250	So what is my proposal going on? It provides that part of these 40 million would be directed to the maintenance and management of memorial sites of the Holocaust in Latvia. There are 256 such memorial sites of the Holocaust in the territory of Latvia. Currently, they are maintained by the state or local authorities of Latvia. And I think it would be only logical if now, when the state of Latvia intends to pay 40 million to compensate for the property killed in the Holocaust, part of this money would also be spent on memorial sites of these victims. And when I put forward this proposal, I thought that I would probably support it. But no! It was also rejected by the Commission, and the applicants and the Jewish community did not show a special desire to spend these 40 million Holocaust memorial sites in Latvia. Colleagues! In this case, I would really like to draw attention to the idea itself... So, you know, the situation is as follows: The applicants have been searching for the archives for years, belonging to these people who were shot in Rumbula or elsewhere, found a fine list, calculated how much it costs together, and have now set up an invoice to the Latvian State of several million - 40 million - and demand that the Latvian State now compensates for the properties of the shot Jews. However, when it comes to proposing that perhaps part of this money could also be donated to the memory of the people whose wealth is now divided - that they could donate it to their graves and memorials - no! No tombs will be given. There, no matter... There, as they say, to the state or local government of Latvia... In a word, "let's get over, we won't give anything". In my opinion, this is an extremely vivid illustration of the selfishness and immorality that actually characterises all of today's events. So what do we see? We see that we use the Holocaust, we use the memory of the shot people to get to their possessions, but nothing will be given to maintain their graves and memorials. This is simply regrettable. I'm sorry! I call for my proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U251	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U252	Colleagues! We remember the budgetary process that was just recently - then there were political repressives from Cesis who came to us literally with a stretched hand asking for funding so that they could complete the politically repressed building of a memorial site at the Amata station. The offer of Member Edvins Šnores could be even much wider, I would say - maintenance and management of memorial sites of Holocaust memorials and communist genocide in Latvia, because... I'll remind you, at the beginning of the bill... In this context, it is claimed that the deducted real estate, which was taken away from the occupation power of the USSR, should not be compensated by Nazi Germany. And, for example, there is the question of the memorial place in Torņakalns - is it just a unique memorial place for ethnic Latvians or, yet, for all the citizens of Latvia who were victims of repression, including those who were Jews by nationality? I join Member Edwin Schnore in saying that it is really absurd that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has not yet supported this proposal, which provides for the transfer of funds to the memory of persons who have suffered in the Holocaust. Yes, there is no question of a broader wording, as I said; there is only about the maintenance and management of memorial sites of the Holocaust in the territory of Latvia. I understand that if this funding were to go through a public institution, then it is likely that there would be a legal place for such a purpose. But given that it passes through the establishment of a narrow group, where... I think Mr. Pimenova said in the debate that there can be no real beneficiaries there. But there are true beneficiaries. Now open the Company Register data or the “Lursoft” data and you will see that there are three true beneficiaries that we have already talked about. And obviously these gentlemen do not really care about the sites of the Holocaust memory, about the preservation of the memory of the people on whom they are trying to obtain 40 million from the state of Latvia at the expense of which they will be able to manage. That is, I would say, sad and criminal, if this norm remains unchanged. Of course, there can be a political agreement to move forward, to ignore everything, but I think there is a human factor that I think society will remember for a very long time - that is to cover up... with regard to the victims of repression... in fact, its money is collected from a hard work that does not care about the memory of the dead. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U253	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U254	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to quote Mr Dombrava in the debate on the 35th proposal that... it was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U255	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - Member Edwin Schnore's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U256	36. - The proposal from Member Edwin Schnore. This is due to the extension of the scope of beneficiaries. This was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U257	A vote on 36 has been requested. - the proposal made by Member Edwin Schnore. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - Member Edwin Schnore's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U258	37. - The proposal from Member Edwin Schnore. This is also linked to extending the circle of beneficiaries. This was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U259	Members have requested a vote on proposal 37. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. - Member Edwin Schnore's proposal! Please vote mode! It's not about - 11, it's against -54, it's abstaining - it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U260	38. - The proposal from Member Edwin Schnore. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U261	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U262	This proposal is for funds not to be used for the health care of former workers and agents of the repressive institutions of Nazi Germany and the USSR. This is because it does not lead to a situation where cash compensation for the property of victims of totalitarian regimes is received by those who, for example, participated in the withdrawal of this property or cooperated with the authorities that carried out the terror of these totalitarian regimes. Why did I submit this proposal? Because... as we know, one of the most active movers in this case is the Executive Director of the Jewish Community, as I understand, I think I have been, Gita Umanovska, whose name is also on the list of these Czech agents. And the check, as we know, and the USSR regime in 1940, it was these houses that we are talking about here that were taken away. And now a person who has cooperated with a check, for example, is applying for public funding for health care. And do as they say, from the money of the victims. I think there are enormous ethical problems here, which have already been talked about not only once, and I also highlighted this at the commission meeting, but... Mr. Krutrņikov, the applicant's representative... Well, he didn't see any big problems there... that everything is normal, and everyone has worked with the check in there, and, as you say, there is no problem for them. I think that such a case, too, would, of course, be totally unacceptable and unfair, and immoral. I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U263	The debate is closed. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U264	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that 38. - Schnore's proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U265	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - Member Edwin Schnore's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U266	39. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. This already applies to Article 7. This was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U267	Members have requested a vote on the proposal. Has not applied for a debate. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! It's not about 11, it's against -56, it's abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U268	40. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. This also concerns Article 7, which is an overview of the use made of the funds allocated. He mentions again, let's say, planning regions... Well, planning regions are already... We rejected it in advance. Proposal 40 was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U269	Members have requested a vote on the proposal. Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U270	41. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group of the "Fatherland and Freedom/LNPC" relating to Article 8. It is therefore a matter of monitoring the use of the resources granted by the State. This proposal, too, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U271	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U272	Colleagues! In the Commission’s examination of Article 8, it was possible to conclude that the State’s supervision, at least as originally proposed, would, in fact, not have any effect on... the use made of these funds. The three members of the board, who are in this restorative fund together with representatives of international organisations, who will not even be representatives of Jewish communities of Latvia, are implementing their activities there. And then just like that... In a way, one representative of the Ministry of Finance will be invited as an observer, who will not really have any decision on how to use the funds. In its proposal, the National Association in turn proposes to set up a special council, a commission, which would then include: a representative of the Politically Repressed Association of Latvia, a representative of the Council of Jewish Communities of Latvia, a representative of the National Culture Society of Latvia, a representative of the Riga Latvian Society, a representative of the society “ŠAMIR” (who has a sharp conflict with these so-called organizations, which represent all Jews of Latvia), a representative of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia, a representative of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, as well as a representative appointed by the Ministry of Finance. With such a wide representation, there would be an opportunity to ensure transparency, transparency regarding the decisions taken regarding the continued use of the Fund, as well as to eliminate any concerns expressed about the possibility of any conflict situations, even among Latvian Jewish community associations. It would also include - and I would like to emphasise this - the Latvian Politically Repressed Association, whose commission supported such a conceptual proposal that... They also think... That is, to say, in Latvia, I would say, the leading organisation, which represents all of Latvia... politically repressed regardless of nationality, including Jews living in Latvia who have suffered crimes committed either by Nazi Germany or by the Communist regime. I really call on my colleagues... I know, for example, that in the Young Unity Group, Karlis Šadurskis, who regularly visited events, reunions and similar events of the Latvian Politically Repressed Association, has now returned. There are several colleagues from the New Conservative Party who also often count on politically repressive support. This would be the right place where we would say that the Latvian Politically Repressed Association would also be one of these organisations, which should participate and decide on the use of these funds. I do not see any arguments why we should entrust EUR 40 million to a foundation where, together with any foreign guest, we will decide on the use of this EUR 40 million. I really do not see the justification there, so I call for support for this proposal, where it is proposed to extend this list to the association “ŠAMIR”, to the Latvian Politically Repressed Association, to the representatives of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia. This list can be clarified at another third reading, but it is a conceptual solution where I would really call for a vote now in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U273	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U274	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to say that the Latvian Politically Repressed Association, if I am not mistaken, did not express a particular wish at the meeting of the Commission, or, more precisely, did not want to be on this kind of supervisory board. Proposal 41 was not supported by the Commission as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U275	Please call me! We will vote for 41. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! 15, 53, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U276	Next - 42. - Mr Valaina's proposal. It also concerns Article 8, including the national monitoring of the use made of the funds allocated. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U277	Members agree with the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U278	43. - our colleague Edwin Schnore's proposal. This also concerns Article 8. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U279	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U280	44. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U282	45. - our colleague Edwin Schnore's proposal. It also concerns Article 8(4). The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U283	We launched a debate on the proposal. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U284	Dear President, Honourable Members! As the whole line of proposals on how the allocation of funds should then be decided has already been rejected, I understand that even this small proposal does not allow anyone to stand at this process. So it's not Latvia's political repression, in which... this organisation includes all the oppressed, not just the individually chosen... Neither representatives of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia, who also represent, as I understand, Latvian citizens, but not one separate group - they are not welcome. And why are they not desirable? Because the list of different museums or organisations does not already determine the proportion of money to be distributed. The law was not intended to distribute the same money, for example between the “ŠAMIR” association and the Jewish community. The law was already... it did not even mention such a society as “ŠAMIR”, by the way, but it was intended... Now, of course, for the second reading, this distribution of money can be just as good, for example: 95 percent for one organisation called the “Jewish Community of Latvia”, and five percent for the association “ŠAMIR” with its museums, so it is not desirable for any other people from the edge to share these funds in any way. All in all, I'm embarrassed by one thing. Knowing clearly that this law is contrary to the Constitution, because in the future it divides the population into a nation of Latvia and a single community, which the Constitution does not provide; knowing clearly that in fact no saying will be done here for the Jewish society “ŠAMIR”; knowing clearly that this law is not ethical, because it requires Latvian citizens, whose members are killed during the occupation, to finance with their taxes only the representatives of one ethnic group... and just because they may have a different nationality, they have nothing to do with... It is totally unethical and unmortal. And 350 thousand citizens lost to Latvia, of course, there is nothing compared to the choices of one ethnic group. We also ignore the norms of the Law of the Republic of Latvia on the necessity of good repute, which have been incorporated into various laws, for example, we know that where there are taxes or public taxpayers' money, state money, - in banks, commercial companies, insurance companies and various funds - there is a requirement that board members should be of good repute everywhere. Surprisingly, the Member working in the State Revenue Service Švekova said that finances are free to act by people who are not courted. After all, we have changed both the President of the Bank of Latvia and forced a whole line of representatives of other bank management to leave or resign because they were somewhat related to certain money machinations. The Financial Intelligence Service, say, the Financial Police, State Revenue Service has frozen hundreds, if not thousands of different accounts only about suspicions of money laundering, about some corrupt activities. I am extremely surprised that a person who has worked in the State Revenue Service is calmly declaring here: until the court has been the case, you can work. So if the U.S. has imposed sanctions on someone whose money they manage has been arrested, and several million of them... but we continue to transfer money to a fund led by a person of whom some of the funds managed have already been arrested. Something's not clean here. I do not know who is pushing people to vote for such an illegal and non-mortal law. Now something's hiding there. We don't have information. I understand that I am not particularly concerned about the norms and laws adopted by the Soviets, but the members of the Latvian Farmers' Union and the New Conservative Party, who seem to disobey this Soviet propaganda and abide by the laws - why do they support this matter? But well, I think voters will appreciate this vote. In general, I call for the vote to be taken against this illegal and non-mortal bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U285	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U286	Thank you. I very well understand their motivation, why Mr Kirštein is so active and opposed to this bill in general and why he tries to distract attention to other positions and other proposals. But if we talk about money laundering and financial capital repairs as such, then during this repair, you yourself have repeatedly pointed out in the meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) - about errors, shortcomings and about the diversion of investors from Latvia, from entering Latvia or leaving Latvia, who could continue to work and who owned Scandinavian capital. And neither should we say about sanctions against certain people or concrete ones... so simply treat, so simply translate and also manipulate. If I don't make a mistake, the Re:Check also noted the excellent ability of Mr. Kirštein to manipulate the factology... manipulate facts and interpretations. So that on my part... of course, you have been very respectful of this cultivated art for many years as a Member and politician. I would still have a lot to learn from you, and I would probably not get your experience. On the ability of the KGB, the dissemination of information I have no experience... and the contact was... I wasn't so knowledgeable or interesting at that time for this service. You know better, Mr Kirštein, how the KGB works and what methods and dissemination of information are applied. But in general, returning to the draft law, I ask colleagues not to resort to provocations and to assess both proposals and objectives with a clear head and clear mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U287	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U288	Dear President, Honourable Members! I completely agree with the previous speaker: I really did not support much of the repair of so-called capital... adopted excessive norms, which resulted in very many honest businessmen moving their accounts to Lithuania, for example. But it has nothing to do with this draft law, because, as I said, I was surprised by the employees working in the State Revenue Service who have participated in... and knows how unfair funds are arrested both from the SRS and from various financial investigation institutions, a statement by which this employee said that without a court it must not be... there may be no detention or decision in any way or do so without a decision of the court. So that is absolutely the opposite - I stress once again! - the legislation we have adopted. Then we throw out of all insurance companies and banks “good reputation”! And to refer here to one or the other Member of the Saeima is completely pointless, because none of us, at the same time, require 40 million to be credited to our account or to handle taxpayers' money in some way. It is clear here that a person authorised in the United States will be entrusted with the management of funds, despite the fact that some of the funds under his control have been arrested. It's not normal! And why it's happening, I don't know. What material interest there is, let us say, to the SPIRIT Members, what material interest there is in others, we can only mention. It is a suspicion, but you understand that if a former SRS employee comes here and suddenly starts to tell a fool that only by court decision can it be done, even though he has certainly also participated in such funds, let us say, in detention, for others it is ridiculous. I call for the draft law not to be supported, but for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U289	I closed the debate. Mr. Bondar, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U290	In the Commission 45, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U291	Please call me! We'll vote for 45. - Member Edwin Schnore's proposal! Please vote mode! 15, 55, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U292	Proposals 46 and 47. Both are my colleague Butan's proposals and refer to Article 8. So the 46th proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U293	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U294	Hello, colleagues! Thank you to your colleagues for the wide-ranging debate, for the various proposals. Reflecting on what Mr Kirštein said, I would like to say that personally I will not benefit from this draft law, but I still hope that Latvia, as an internationally recognised country, will still have some benefit in the Western world. However, without unanimity, I have also prepared and tabled these proposals because, in my opinion, the draft law was not completely covered up and drafted at a level that would leave no confusion, so I also believe, perhaps, that Members... we are not the ones who could best drown this draft law, which should then be the distribution of money, so I put forward proposals to make this distribution of money and methodology... and more generally, for this process to be as transparent and transparent as possible and for society to have no doubt that the financial resources could go in the unknown direction of us, I submitted a proposal that the Cabinet of Ministers should develop both the arrangements for using these financial resources and the methodology, although it would be clear for the recipients of the financial resources themselves how to organise this process, because these processes are usually not simple and these processes should take place legally, in accordance with the legal rules in Latvia. In my opinion, the Ministry of Finance is the one which already has extensive experience in the administration, supervision, distribution of various financial resources, and therefore the Ministry of Finance... If they do not think they will be appropriate, they will prepare for the third reading properly and will do their utmost to make this process transparent and understandable to all, and they will also convince those Members who might have doubted that these funds could not go where they should... but will be used for the purposes laid down by law. Thank you. I call on you to support my proposals and the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U295	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U296	Dear President, Now, funny, honourable Members! This is Mr. Butane... What benefit does Latvia derive from the fact that since 1993 it has consistently given some property every second year to various Jewish societies? What is the benefit for Latvia, as you said, international? What is the benefit of the fact that Latvia allocates millions of euros (previously lats) each year to museums of different ethnic groups (let's not only talk about Jews) for educational purposes, including, as I also said, the “Jews in Latvia”, the Riga Ghetto and the Latvian Holocaust Museum, and the Žānis Lipke Memorial? And it's always done. What is the international benefit that has praised us for this? What good or bad for Latvia, for example... and why should Latvia benefit in some way by trying to adopt acts of good will on crimes committed in Ostland and Latvia's SSR, where the state of Latvia has not taken any part? What is wrong with Poland, which recently decided that it interrupted any discussion on these topics, that there was no discussion at all about the claims of citizens who had arrived in some foreign countries on foreign property, there was only a law that the return of property to owners or their legal successors would cease because of the limitation - time has passed, and the heirs who have not applied will no longer receive anything. Well, some condemned them, including the representative of the U.S. State Department. Does Poland play a lesser role in NATO or in Central Europe in some way? The difference is that in Poland near the country... There are people both in the government and in the Seimas who are well aware... people with national pride, people who are not buying in the face of various international exiles, passing on their national interests. The Latvian Saeima obviously does not, as I said. Let the voters appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U297	I closed the debate. The name is Mr Bondara on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U298	In the Commission, 46 proposals were supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U299	Mr Kirstein, have you requested a vote on this proposal? ( Pause) Mr. Kirstein?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U300	I haven't asked for anything.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U301	So the Saeima agrees, supports.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U302	47. - a proposal from our colleague, Bhutan. On Article 8. The Commission was in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U303	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U304	We have therefore examined all 47 proposals. In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the draft law at second reading was supported. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has additionally sent out its observations, which are available in the legislative database, so colleagues, I invite you to familiarize yourself with these observations. But now I invite you to vote in favour of and support the draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U305	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U306	The Commission decided that the deadline for submitting proposals would be one month, or 4 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U307	Thank you. The Bureau has received an application from Member Juris Pūce to give him the floor on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Law on the Compensation of Goodwill to the Jewish Community of Latvia”. Mr. Pouce, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U308	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Given that this draft law had an unusually long deadline - two months - for the second reading, a very intensive discussion has taken place within the committee responsible, spending five sittings on it, we have also heard this draft law for the second reading today, it seems that the proposal to set a month for the third reading proposals... is too long. My proposal is to set a deadline of 10 days for the submission of proposals, this year, 2022, 16 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U309	Mr. Pouce, I'm sorry. Say the deadline again.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U310	So, on 16 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U311	Thank you. Mr. Dombrava has also applied. Do you want a deadline for submitting your proposals... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U312	Yes, I would like to see a deadline for the submission of proposals... Colleagues! In view of this difficult situation, with the possibility of further - parallel - draft laws, as well as the fact that we have to wait for information from the security authorities, which are then entrusted with these 40 million, as well as the need to prepare the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the proposal, supported by the second reading by Mr Butans, I proposed a deadline for the submission of proposals - 5 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-06-PT13-2345-U313	Thank you. So we have received three proposals on the deadline for the third reading of the draft law: the Commission asked for a deadline - 4 February this year, Mr Pouce proposed 16 January this year, and Mr Dombrava proposed 5 October this year. According to the parliamentary roll of order, we must first vote on the next proposal, namely on 5 October. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for tabling proposals for the third reading on 5 October 2022! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This proposal is therefore not supported. The next deadline for tabling proposals is 4 February. Please call me! Let us vote on the deadline for the third reading of the draft law on 4 February this year! Please vote mode! For - 22, for - 50, for - 2. So this proposal is not supported either. Consequently, the deadline for the third reading of the draft law is 16 January this year. Thank you. Dear Members, Honourable Members! We have examined all issues on the agenda of the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 6 January 2022. Only the registration of Members. It's been a success. I'm closing the sitting. Nice afternoon!
