ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U1	Dear colleagues, We will continue to work on the agenda of the second remote emergency session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 10 February 2022. On the agenda - draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties), first reading. The honourable colleagues, the Saeima Bureau has received an application signed by Member Juris Pūce, Krišjānis Feldman, Juris Jušas, Jānis Dombrava, Ilze Indricsones, Kārlis Šadurska, Andas Čakša, Gata Zamura, Viestura Liepkalna and Andra Skride, requesting Members to declare the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” as urgent in accordance with Rule 92 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure. Mr Nemir, do you want to talk about setting an urgency?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U2	Yeah, I'd like to object here.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U3	So the 'no' Member Ralph Nemiro has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U4	Thank you, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. This draft law, which has been submitted to us by the President of Latvia, has been reviewed by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. And already at that point it caused various discussions and is with obvious, now, collesis. Mr Plapa, who represented the Presidential Chancellery, often even termically confused non-group Members with independent Members, in which case he honored the ‘Independence’ group. But legally this is not accurate. Talking about this bill... It is expected to enter into force for 14. The Saeima. And, speaking right now about urgency, not about content, there is no reason to consider this bill urgent, because during the course of the normal draft law we can be able to accept it by 14. The Saeima. There is a lot of discussion about this bill, because the first... So the discussions that took place before the first reading in the Commission were broad and controversial and many questions were not answered. Therefore, at a time when we are once again following this not particularly good legislative practice that we usually have, for example, at the time of the adoption of the budget, we are adding various tax changes, which then are not too much appreciated by business... in this case, we could avoid such practices. This would, in any event, allow this draft law to be discussed in a sufficiently high-quality manner and to also make appropriate proposals if necessary. At the moment, the draft law actually provides for quite a few of these things, but the questions that arise when we start to discuss what they will apply to and start looking at the content itself are, of course, very many of them appear, very many questions, more discussions are needed. There is no reason to be established at the moment and to make their bill a little less successful again. Consequently, the so-called ordinary legislative order that we have - three readings to examine the draft law - could provide precisely these opportunities, these discussions... To submit proposals to Members, it is also important, in turn, to speak and discuss, and to invite all its parties, including non-governmental organisations, which should be invited to discuss this draft law... That is why, too, in the Commission itself, if I have no memory, this aspect of urgency was rejected with a single vote. I think that was absolutely justified, because there were really a lot of questions there that still appeared. Since a draft law could go its usual legislative path, we could avoid such misinterpretation of the law, perhaps even mistakes, because this draft law concerns not only finances but also the possibilities for ensuring democratic processes. And since I think that this bill is written in the context of a single group for now, all the more so this argument is important. When you write laws for one person, one situation that has occurred with a single political group can create enough errors, which should not then... to improve in the future, thereby broadening the scope of these issues in the context of the various political processes that may arise. 14 In the context of the Saeima, however, it would be fair enough to talk about this issue in a broader context. Therefore, colleagues, I would very much ask you to take this into account in the vote and I call, of course, for urgency not to be supported in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). Please, let's vote! For - 48, for - 32, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent. Alexander Kirštein, Member of the Commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! See document number 1302/Lp13. Thus, the idea of the draft law presented by the President of Latvia is that the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption receives information from the Saeima and terminates the funding of the party from the budget in two cases: if a political organisation or a party has lost or reduced the number of members of its political group by two thirds or if a political organisation or a party ceases its activities. There has been quite a heated debate in the Commission on issues such as - whether only the Saeima is important or not - what to do if a party, for example, does not form a political group in the Saeima, because they can delegate their elected members, say, to other party groups - related, ideologically related. Then there were also different proposals on a fixed rate - do not set all parties equally, do not have too much money and so on. Given that the time for submitting proposals is tomorrow at 5 p.m., i.e. 18 February at 5 p.m., I think there is enough time to submit my proposals. And I also feel that the next Saeima will have the right, let's say, to amend this law if something doesn't like, for example, about the sums granted or something else. So that's the view. The Commission was in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U7	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U8	Colleagues! Why does the President of Latvia offer easy cosmetic procedures in the capital of the political system instead of repairs? The amendments proposed by the President were not supported by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), stressing that the merging groups of members are voluntary and under the current regulation they are Members’ rights and not obligations. It happens that the President of Latvia offers legalization of a member of forced marriage. The solutions to the problems described in the draft law are found in other laws than in the law on party financing. Delna, which is mainly an ally to the political position, has also objected to the urgent procedure for examining the draft law and has also formulated substantive objections on its substance and content. 13. The Saeima adopted amendments to the party financing law, increasing the amount allocated to them to EUR 4 million each year. A total of €16 million of taxpayers' money was spent in the medium-term budgetary framework to finance the needs of politicians. Cinism lies in the fact that politicians have given money to themselves, and this is the most striking example of political corruption. This money is paid for office maintenance, research and other activities, including promotional activities. In other words, politicians gave money to themselves to tell the public how much they care about Latvian citizens and why they have to be elected as well 14. In the family. The President of Latvia in his initiative is based on the division of the political group and on the fact that if the political group no longer has at least five members of the Saeima, the party's ability to implement its election programme and the will expressed by voters in an adequate way is also lost. On the other hand, the termination or collapse of the Saeima political group clearly shows a situation where the political party has lost the basis for further granting the relevant state budget funding, as it is no longer able to implement to an adequate extent the policies for which a certain number of voters have been voted in the last Saeima elections. The increase in state budget funding for political organisations, while significantly reducing possibilities to attract private donations, has been necessary and is a strengthening of Latvia's democratic state facilities in the long term 13. The decision of the Saeima. Are you serious? Let's see how voters appreciate the work and performance of politicians. If 13. 54.56 per cent of voters participated in the Saeima elections, and only 34.01 per cent of the voters participated in the municipal elections in 2021. Sociological surveys show critical evaluation of the population by politicians. The truth is that politicians do not hear voters and do not want to listen to them, even more so: politicians ignore the interests of the majority of voters. In fact, politicians are choosing a strategy to mobilise a segment that is close to themselves and, with minimal effort, forgetting the foundations, ideologies and ideas that are important in politics, they are continuing to pursue such a very traditional and convenient bureaucratic policy aimed at the proper implementation of the Brussels regulations and directives, as well as the successful acquisition of European Union funds, which have been out of hand for years. Election promises are plundering like smoke the week after the election, starting to share positions in Saeima committees and forming government, assigning key figures, bringing people closer to the services - prosecutor's office, KNAB, Competition Council, State Audit Office, SRS. Party offices turn into a narrow lobby representative clubs that bring together a family, close friends and grateful officials, who are interested in keeping the so-called party board in power, and continue to ensure if not a prosperous, then at least a prosperous life for the next four years. 13. The Saeima elections proved that people in politics want new blood and new faces. It is therefore quite logical that most of the elected Members were newcomers. This was also the case with KPV LV, one of the largest elected parties in the Saeima. But very quickly, their pre-election determination collapsed against the so-called New Unity, in which the Philigians operate grounded political veterans, “under the carpet” for game masters. And today we see the draft law proposed by the President of Latvia, which has in fact been created as a special message for KPV LV. Does this draft law tackle fundamental problems in the national political system? Will this enable the people to regain confidence in politics and politicians? The family as a whole? Let me say no. Does this draft law also address or propose to change the political system accordingly by introducing the possibility of being elected to the Saeima not from the party lists? No, it doesn't offer it, it's done in Lithuania, it's not with us. The President of Latvia continues to support and cemente the monopoly system of the parliamentaryly elected parties in Latvia and the usurpation of political power in the interests of a narrow political elite, and does not hesitate to call this process democracy. I will refrain from participating in this show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U9	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U10	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! It's hard for me, too, to stand by seeing this, I think... Allow me to say, a very simple, bad, populist move that would rather fit one of the political forces in Parliament, but I do not think that is in line with the initiative of the President of Latvia. And in this case, this direction, which is now... This, let us say, is a bad attempt to distract attention from the core of the CPV LV (which has now been left over from the CPV LV) in this way. And the main thing about party financing is that political parties gave money to themselves. The ruling coalition and the government gave money to themselves, and it was one of the first things they did right away when they formed a government. Rather than providing doctors with what they had promised a few months ago, they provided themselves - political parties - with an enormous increase in funding. And this displeasure about this remains today. It's not gone anywhere. And the fact that it's going on... proposed such cosmetic improvements, that is, in my opinion very childish and not in line with the political reality that is currently present in Parliament and the way in which political groups are formed, and also, let us say, the spirit of the law, why, in general, this funding was granted... If we move forward in this way, then the next step will already be... then we pay parties according to their political ratings every year, and then SKDS and “Latvijas Facti” will produce political party ratings on 1 January, we will draw out the average rating and then receive funding. It would be the same... This is exactly what is currently being offered. Colleagues, the ability of a party to defend or not defend any kind of initiative is in no way related to the size of a political group or the reduction of a political group. The potential for potential change in the political group is extremely high and the political groups are also changing during this term. Colleagues, in my opinion, there is really no group that has experienced some kind of change - none! All the political groups have experienced changes, and the largest group for us, as we can see on the Saeima's website, is the political group... Members who do not belong to the political groups. There are now 20 Members. That's what it is. And every group... There are those who have gained both their powers and those who have lost their mandate. And only to judge the strength of the group is very short-sighted, because today's lost tomorrow can be obtained. And if we're even looking at that KPV LV... group, let's talk specifically about what the whole story is about... I see here a kind of fiction with this political party, a political group, no matter what with them... no matter what the situation is, but otherwise it cannot be called in terms of how this political party is now... what sanctions are imposed against them. And this bill, too, is a peculiar part of all this. What could have been imagined, colleagues who could have imagined it... When this group was formed in the Saeima, we saw how they hit the sea there - someone went away, one moment was a Prime Minister, then was gone again... and who could imagine that today’s KPV LV... Aldis Gobzem will lead the group again. Who knows, maybe in a few months' time, we'll see Artus Kaimiņš reuniting with Mr. Gobzem. Everything is possible. We've seen it in this Saeima, and the fact that something is impossible... This Saeima proves that everything is possible. That is why we cannot rule out this possibility either. And also the parliamentary roll of order allows this possibility completely. Anyone who has now left is free to come back today. And this group will become strong again. And then what will we do? And how will we appreciate that? And maybe a group of five people is stronger than a group of 20 people. There have also been cases of small groups gaining high positions. At present, the government is led by the smallest group represented in the Saeima. And is the number of Members in the political group - many or few - what shows how much this political party is capable or unable to implement its political initiatives? How do we appreciate this, and how does this proposal give us the opportunity to assess it? In my opinion, this proposal is, to put it mildly, so populist, but from the point of view of the system it will not make any contribution. Let us... For example, if we look at programmes of political parties... For example, the JCPOA promised immediately with all kinds of miracles on 1 January next year - they did not do it despite having a large group. This shows some of their strength or weakness at once? I don't think so. Similarly, the New Unity. Now they have obtained various political positions, but does it at once confirm that they are ensuring the implementation of the political programme? Here, too, the link does not automatically mean it, because perhaps it is also that a political party only sits satisfiedly in these political positions. In my opinion, this is a major disease in this government: sitting in political positions. And that does not indicate any willingness to fulfil the commitments made by the political forces to voters. And in this case, too, this link with the size of the group, I do not really support it, and I cannot support this approach on my part and, to be honest, I expected such a more serious approach from the President of Latvia to legislative initiatives. This, to put it mildly, looks like populism, an improvement for one particular party, quite an accompaniment to that, that even non-governmental organisations which specialize in these matters, with all due respect, specialize in us too... each of us in the Saeima has sent reasoned opinions on why they do not support this approach in e-mails. Well, I could've tried more... In my opinion, the main problem is that the Saeima itself voted in favour of granting this funding to political parties - to itself. It was one of the first works of this government. And these cosmetic changes will not correct the harm you did at that time and the faith in parliament and politics as such... a very large part of society... adopting exactly these amendments, increasing the financing of these parties... These microscopic corrections will not change this. The right approach would be: if this question had gone through the electoral cycle... The Saeima could adopt this law on party financing, on volumes and everything else, but decisions should be made through election prism, passing through the electoral cycle, and then already... that citizens appreciate it, too. At the moment, this is such an absconding. So that, my fellow Members, I will not vote on this and I call on others also not to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U11	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U12	Thank you, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Well, then we're really going through this content... There are a lot of questions here that arise from the simple reading of the draft law itself, which, in fact, contains only two lines. The main theme itself: if the fraction has fallen by two-thirds... The draft law completely does not answer the following question: what happens if a group is not established at all? For example, what part of the party's programme is the idea that when we come to power they will not form a political group, they will work as Members who will vote according to their "best consciousness", as we all have solemnly promised in our oath. What's going on? In that case, the President of Latvia... instead of addressing perhaps much deeper problems, which are, of course, also requiring a broad debate (e.g. very low turnout in the context of municipal elections, Europarlament and perhaps also the next Saeima elections)... not at all, instead simply the size of a political group is linked to funding. Let us also look at this issue, perhaps a little deeper - which is being dealt with by the party, what are the main functions of the party. The main functions of the parties are, of course, to offer electoral programmes to voters, to offer those people who will carry out these electoral programmes in the Europarlament elections, in the parliamentary elections, in the municipal elections. In addition to these parties, there are usually offices that are maintained, various campaigns are taking place, during which these ideas are being offered, and this is the whole of the party's activities. In what sense is this funding linked to just one of these five things that I have referred to - the parliamentary elections? Yes, of course, the Saeima, Parliament, is the decision-making power. A very important aspect is that the government is formed subsequently. However, the state is represented if power is represented at different levels. For example, a country in Europe is represented by our Members. If I am also represented by Members in municipalities that are much closer to their citizens, then why has there been no offer in that respect? These two lines in the draft law that are being proposed to change are, of course, very shallow - in the context of the fact that they ask more questions than to receive answers. In principle, of course, there should also be an aspect here - what is happening to those Members who are transferring their constituents? In other words, starting from one party, promising one, but when we enter Parliament, they quickly leave the group, they go to another party. And then what happens to the promises made to the voters? Should not such people be dismissed from the Saeima? Should such people not automatically lose their mandate? Perhaps we should now ask such a question and also deal with it - in the context of how honest the Member is then to his constituents who have given him this mandate. That issue, too, is absolutely not addressed here. So these would be the same main questions that should be asked and which should be dealt with here. And, of course, an authoritative institution - the President of Latvia, who is the highest official of our state... Well, coming on with such an initiative may have wanted to raise the debate. I am even very sorry that the majority of the Saeima, however, supported the urgency, because the President may have tried to initiate a debate on a number of different issues that Members and the parties concerned might have raised in order to discuss them in three readings. But no! Urgency has, however, been accepted. Well, it is. That is why the issues that concern the most important are absolutely not dealt with here at the moment. It is possible that those Members who will actively participate in this draft law in the coming years will also make proposals and we will continue to discuss them. I will certainly make proposals. Maybe other colleagues will. Let us see how public organisations will assess this and what the Legal Office will say about it. When we looked at the draft law in the Commission, the Legal Bureau really linked the existing regulation to the parliamentary order roll, which is the document that we, colleagues, are working on. And there was one really very important thing about which I have already mentioned, namely the right of this group to set up, which Members can and can not use. And - funding linked to a legal entity. It is a political organisation that is registered in the relevant register. So by nature this is also a little... such a legal anachronism, because by linking together a meeting place called a political group, where Members elected from one list, to a legal entity registered in a separate register... Well, here, I think there are quite a lot of colesions. However, the most important issue is not addressed here. That is why our constituents, our Latvian citizens, do not want to go to the ballot boxes? Why is the turnout constantly falling? Why is trust in the Saeima so low? Why is government confidence so low? Why is confidence in power in general so low? It would be an issue that I would expect from the President - all respect for the authority of our President and therefore, hopefully, political neutrality. These would be the issues that we could look at. And they would, in my opinion, be more important than simply linking party funding to the number of members of the relevant political group. What, moreover, is the justification for these two thirds? There's nothing completely wrong with that. Why two thirds? Why not one fifth, for example? Why not half the fraction? Why don't you... What if one Member leaves? Why this question? There is simply no logic here that makes it possible to understand why there are precisely such figures, why such a draft law is offered here at all. The other thing. As I said before, if we write draft laws for particular people and for specific organisations, unfortunately, it can play very much afterwards... in the future, those who will support this draft law and enter into the next parliamentary term. At present, this issue is undoubtedly linked - quite objectively and honestly we can recognise - to one group, whereas if the next Saeima is elected, for example, six-seven... if by ratings we're a little... We see that there could be as many as eight nine political forces there, and walking will start there, and then perhaps this very basic idea of making political forces independent of the big party sponsors, as it has been for years before, will be completely destroyed, because those people who will leave the party (or perhaps they will have left for noble purposes, perhaps not for noble purposes) can break down all of these groups, all of these parties will accordingly be deprived of this funding, and the basic idea - to ensure political neutrality - will simply lose meaning. Therefore, my fellow Members, however, call for this, if this draft law is declared urgent, to be rejected, not to be supported. If we are talking about party funding, here we should think about what amount of funding is currently being allocated, and then debate and debate this issue, perhaps to halve this party's funding. The amount of money that the party is being allocated to is often extremely high, in contrast to how much resources are needed to ensure that the party operates, so that the party's office, perhaps some regional units and a pre-election campaign, where we clearly understand that pre-election campaign expenditure is clearly limited. Consequently, sufficient funds remain, which are probably not used, even paid back to the state budget, because parties cannot spend these funds on the right and left, subject to the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Office, these issues will appear sufficiently objectively as well. That's why... I want to sum up. This draft law absolutely does not solve the very main problems that are connected with political nihilism in our country, or maybe... people are far removed from politics. I'm sorry. And that's a very, very important threat to democracy, because if 30 percent of people participate in the elections... from the voters, these 30 per cent then make up, for example, the Saeima or the municipal council, then in fact half plus one Member form a coalition and finally are represented about plus minus 15 per cent. I do so very roughly, but for abstract calculations. 15 percent are just the ones who create a... 15 per cent of the population represented thus establishes administration in the municipality. And it is very wrong in contrast to the fact that many people are not represented at all. The voter's activity is the question of what the President should do... Move. Perhaps we should start a discussion here in the Saeima - quite the opposite - about a small-or-or-a-half-or-a-small-or-small-or-small-or-small-or-small-or-small-or-small-or-small-or-small-or-small-scale system... the introduction of a small-scale system, so that Members are elected from separate areas, where the voter would of course ask his Member for an answer on what has been done, on how well he is doing, on what proposals have been put forward, on what support has been received and so on. This would be particularly positive in view of the fact that several regions have less economic activity, others have significantly higher economic activity. That is why the most important issue - what is happening to the elections - is not addressed here. The question of what is happening to those Members who cheat their voters and go somewhere else is not addressed here. It does not address the question of how much of the electoral programmes are finally being implemented from what has been promised in the past, during the elections, so that the Member is sufficiently objectively evaluated. There are absolutely no issues of local authorities, absolutely of the municipal elections and the fact that groups, if any, are formed there, about the European Parliament's issues... as well as in the context of the link between the regional units and the party offices. So there are, in fact, two very important differences here: first of all, money is allocated to a legal person, a political organisation that is registered in the relevant register, and then there is a group that gathers Members here in the Saeima. This is, in my opinion, too shallow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U13	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, To be honest, when it comes to the particular draft law, we will talk about everything today. I have some reflections on this. Today we are talking about the law on party financing. All is determined by the political structure. The whole structure is built on and based on political parties. It's the basis on which everything else is built... public administration and everything else. So... with great difficulty in the time when we introduced party financing from the state budget... at that time, there were two objectives. The first goal was to help the parties avoid dependency on the oligarchs. That was the first and main objective. The second goal was to sort out the political system by trying - trying! - to achieve a situation like the one in Britain, which is based on two parties, such as the United States, which is based on two parties. Its idea was very good, but it was not realistic, because the history of Latvia's independence does not indicate that such a system could be introduced into life in the near future. We are talking about party financing. Very recently, at the initiative of the President, the ruling coalition, or majority of the Saeima, supported the increase in party funding. At that point, it was also necessary to think about making rational use of these funds - rationally, not only useful and without elements of corruption, without everything else, but also that they contribute to the goal of introducing the funds. At that time, it was not meant, and now we suddenly figure out that we really should sort this out, and the President of Latvia comes with a new initiative that, here, we should think about how useful and pragmatic we use this funding when realizing... I have already identified those main objectives. Did you need this urgency? I don't think so. Should this approach have been implemented? I think so. Therefore, in this case, I did not support the granting of urgency, but I will support this legislation at the current stage, because there is indeed a need. Naturally, this draft law is incomplete, because it is about party financing and not about group financing. These are related issues, but they are not directly related. To a large extent, they relate to how actively the party works, how united it is, how much support it has and how fast it responds to the population... to the needs of people, to the needs of society, to the operational actions. When you were talking about fulfilling your promises, let us say, you forgive me, but there has not been any party in Latvia's history capable of fulfilling all your pre-election promises from A to Z. I think there are no countries in the world where a party can be proud of it. There are some achievements for each party, of course, but when it comes to such a general attitude, it does not seem to me to be particularly far-sighted. That's why, concluding... of which, naturally, this issue must be discussed, but this issue must be discussed without urgency. The final decision, I think, will be taken after a new version appears in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission following the examination of the proposals. And I very much hope that it will be considered within one hour or as it was when we increased... not us, but the majority of the Saeima increased the funding of the parties, when even the time for the debate was, as you remember, shortened to one minute - so as to achieve their result more quickly. I think we should ever start thinking about the normal rhythm, the normal order and the normal approach to it. Today, what we do, you forgive me, is a great chaos. I do not like the word 'bardak', but its elements also exist to a large extent in our work, even though, let us say, in the order of our sittings, in the order of events. I'm not talking about we've gone over... all strings, by giving draft laws urgency instead of the number of draft laws and by trying to avoid those draft laws, the relevance of which may not be so significant in crisis situations. That's why, concluding... That's all I've been saying... I would like to say that I will personally support the first reading of this draft law, in the hope that what has already been said and will be said further, but will be taken into account. In any case, if its wording does not suit anyone, then naturally, I have the opportunity, like any Member, to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U15	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U16	Good afternoon! Thank you for your word. I'll have to... more than one section. The first of these. Already at the beginning of summer 2021, we addressed the President of Latvia with a proposal on this funding. And the proposal contained very specific things. The first thing is that this funding needs to be reviewed. That is clearly what we also considered - that its amounts may need to be revised, but as a side-by-side rule... to be honest, as my colleague Ralph Nemiro has already mentioned, the main rule is the Member's responsibility, which he has assumed by participating in the party's work, participating in the list, participating in the pre-election campaign, telling us about a programme that all members of the party and also the people of the list have agreed to support in the Saeima too... and, when the Saeima comes to the Saeima, begins to suddenly appear individual needs, individual interest, begins to flee from parties, and even sit down for parties whose ideology is literally the opposite of what he has previously expressed. We thought it should be linked - this funding should be linked to the mandate of a member and a member of the Saeima. If a Member of the Saeima leaves the party and, consequently, the political group, he should be given a mandate. Because I myself in the Saeima... I joined in October 2020, I did not decide on this funding, nor did I take part in the debate, but, looking from the side, I can also agree with Mr Dolgopolova that the main message was the fight against oligarch money. What has been achieved? Nothing has changed, the oligarch's money has turned... different. The parties in power put their people in positions, members of their parties, and in this way they obtain additional funding through the state budget for their parties. Consequently, this public funding, to be honest, is hardly even necessary for power parties, because there is an opportunity to raise additional money through the state of power. The next and most important part of this process is that Latvia has a unique situation - the KNAB, which is the institution of the subordination of the Prime Minister, in fact one Prime Minister's resolution can decide the fate of political power. It is no secret that we as a party now feel this to a certain extent “order table”... Well, the role of the victim, because let's start with the fact that Members, ministers, officials who seem to hold important positions have acquired a high level of education, big things about how to work with information, how to sort and understand information, the whole mouths say that the party is dead. Yes, the very name of the party with which it came to the Saeima... Yes, there is no more such a party, but the party continues to live and develop, and it is, to be honest, very painful for the party members to hear that the highly respected and highly educated people I mentioned are trying to be serious, with a serious face to tell them that the party is a shell, that there is nothing left of the party, all kinds of fools that can be thought of to prove some of their superiority in this area. I would like to say once again: no, they are all false, the party is not dead, the party is working, the party is entering into the party by young people who want to realise this idea and their policies, which are aimed at the whole population, not at individual parts or individual interest groups. Returning to these initiatives by the President of Latvia. It is more than regrettable to see that a well-paid institution of public administration, which is the President of Latvia, is able to produce documents of such pitiful quality that are now in our hands. The Legal Bureau rightly opposes these amendments or proposals, because in fact, to be honest, they are even worse than the proposals made by individual Members. Not all Members have access to the apparatus and consultants that are available to the President of Latvia. It is therefore more than regrettable to see that such proposals are being brought to the Saeima. On this system, which I have already mentioned, that the institution under Prime Minister KNAB has now, as far as I have been in contact, become a “order table”... And I can say so seriously because I've been... and has also provided, within the framework of its party, clarifications to people who I consider as non-professional in their field. I was very big... Let us say that we have in-depth contact with these people on certain issues relating to some of the things that are currently being accused of the party. These are more or less accounting issues where I see the complete - complete! - a lack of understanding of accounting issues, generally accepted accounting practices and some kind of transactions at all, because at the moment, the biggest crime that we are facing also in the context of suspension of funding is that the party had to control how the money paid by the party to its partner is handled by the partner... a third party with whom the party had nothing to do with it. Consequently, there is a reasonable suspicion of a “order table” because the most interesting thing is that the funding of parties and checks on various shares must be carried out by KNAB over a certain period of time. As a result, KNAB reports on the results - there have been or have not been any irregularities. Then, after one such period that we are currently being accused of, the examination had ended without any reservations... not because something is too expensive, something wrong... That test ended while we were still in the government. As soon as we were asked to leave the government, the surprises came after each other. Suddenly it turned out that the test had to be restored, and suddenly it began to look for all kinds of underwater stones. Suddenly it began, to be honest, to things that... In normal practice, no one, even... people who think normally, even think completely stupid. And it works with the institution responsible for forming the party system and politics in general. Therefore, first of all, my proposal would definitely have been that KNAB has lost its professionalism, and party financing should be entrusted to the State Audit Office, where however knowledgeable accountants are working... at least... that understand what accounting means and any relationship in accounting terms. Secondly, there will certainly be a proposal that funding should be linked to a Member's mandate, but I understand that this is not within the scope of this draft law, but that there will be proposals to open the parliamentary order roll, which sets out this and put it together. So, in my view, at this point, this President's proposal is more than... I do not know, the attempt to raise its prestige at the expense of something, including the blacking of the party that is currently in operation, because I believe it is a blackmail campaign conducted by both the various political forces and the various officials who believe that the party is dead, that the group is dead. No, we are working and we are also working in a group to deliver on the programme that has been adopted, the programme that has been promised before 13. The Saeima. Just like Mr. Kirstein... As Mr Dolgopolova said, not everyone is doing the fullest of the programme either. It is clear that, at the moment, this system is undergoing some change... the system is in the face of change. I would like to conclude by saying that, at the moment, I do not see any further progress in the proposal that the President has made. I also invite all parties involved, including independent... Non-governmental organisations observe the processes that are taking place, even if they compare the facts that, let us say, the funding is suspended for the party that I represent, while the party, in which even the members have said that they have provided member's cash to them by some of the party's members, to their own treasury and paid in (this should be considered to be a certain extent even a crime), continues to receive funding. The difference may be simply because they are in the government and are not in the saints. Finally, I'd like to say that I'm not about it... on funding as such, I am more about equal playing conditions. If the rules of the game are such for some, but if you are in government, there are others, then it is not, first of all, fair politics. Secondly, if there was a fight against oligarch money, then those political parties that are currently being grubbed up in different ways... Well, they will be forced to attract funding from the edge. To be honest, if you are not in power, if you do not receive public funding and if you do not have the opportunity to raise money from the edge, then there can actually not exist a political party, because, as we know, in order to maintain an organization to life, a management body - at least an office, at least some administrative apparatus. It's not enough to have a table and a funny name. We say - yes, we want large parties and we do not know anything, but at the same time a large party can only exist if it has some funding and a source of funding. The current Finance Act for Political Organisations (Parties) also imposes so many restrictions - which you can and cannot - that actually create a large party is not even physically possible, because it is not possible to raise funding from the edge, there is no public funding. For example, donations from members and supporters are only available to a very narrow circle, and the sums are also minimal. And all the divisive things that are in these laws do not allow the real party to develop. In my view, the law on funding for political organisations (parties) should be reviewed at the moment, because as well, as far as I am concerned about the employees of KNAB is concerned, but they also admitted that the law is now so mixed and under so unclear conditions that even they find it difficult to direct and motivate or try to see any irregularities - sometimes there is a very, very different treatment. People may be wrong, making wrong decisions. These erroneous decisions, on the other hand, bring a certain amount of problems to the political party in which... Well, at least we have over 600 members. So there are different reflections about this system. Of course there will be proposals on our part and let us act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U17	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. ( Pause) We can't hear you, Mr. Tatar!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U18	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to divide this statement into two parts if we are talking about amendments to the law on the financing of political organisations (partys). The first part is, in fact, the arguments that we heard from all the fellow Members who had previously debated, who listed both the misunderstandings in the current regulation and what the President of our country has actually called for with these proposals. That is, in the first paragraph, I would certainly call for a vote in favour of a draft law at first reading. Why? Because there is actually also a second part. And the second part says that not only - not only! - this proposal by the President of Latvia - I would say I would like to use the words 'unlogical, false and perhaps even corrupt' - in terms of reducing the group, but that is also... after all: what does this proposal mean? This proposal provides for the actual withdrawal of funding from one political party, which is not already experiencing the lightest times. That is also clearly stated in the annotation. Having experienced similar situations in the future, but... based on the state of play of one political party... At the same time, however, we forget that this funding was granted on the basis of a number of motives: both reaching the minimum percentage threshold and exceeding the five percentage points threshold. For every vote cast in Parliament - one sum, for every vote cast in the European Parliament - another amount, in municipal elections - a different amount. All this is summed up in order for political parties to contribute to the quality of their work and to be less dependent on what possible (excessive emphasis on "probably") unscrupulous donors. But the greatest indignation in this regard was that this law on the financing of political organisations (parties) was changed retroactively and increased - several times! - political parties, actually for yourself, coalition... and therefore all political parties elected by the Saeima and not only political parties elected by the Saeima... and it's not fair. That is not fair either. This is my argument, one of the arguments why I will vote in favour of the draft law, both to correct these errors and to submit alternative proposals to what Mr Levit has presented as the President of Latvia. That, in my opinion, is absolutely illogical. On the whole, too, this proposal, which has been voted on for a long time ago, with a retroactive date that the political parties, the coalition, have granted themselves funding - that is not fair. At this time, when our society... a very large part of society is outside their jobs, they cannot, cannot work, many entrepreneurs, many sectors are still not fully open... is a very difficult time, I think it would be a very correct gesture on the part of political parties. At least for this year and for the rest of the payment, we could make some changes and also make some corrections. This is one of the main reasons, colleagues, why I am calling for a vote in favour of a draft law at first reading so that, in the near future, we can put forward proposals and correct all these errors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U19	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U20	Good evening, everybody! I don't know who wrote this bill to the President of Latvia, but this bill has come together... How to say it correctly, it'll be easier. In particular, this draft law has little to do with saying more, as it is publicly presented, that as if the aim of this draft law is to bring political parties to bear before their voters - with the logic that, if they fail to do what they have promised, they will lose the support of the voters and they will not have access to this funding or will have to reduce it significantly. The right logic, but in this bill we find nothing like that. In fact, this draft law - and here I would urge everyone to listen and think about it - is working on the contrary. What this bill offers... This logic of linking with the size of the group, as illogical and absurd as it is, has already been discussed by colleagues, I will not touch it. But what's amusing about this whole story? Can you imagine for yourself where, where, how often, what is being reported to the public? This mechanism, a mechanism of responsibility, is being activated, linked to finances, with this real proposal, that is to say, it could only happen if politicians are selfless, honest and in a situation where the political group does not comply with what they have promised their constituents, they are leaving this group. I do not remember such cases in Latvian policy in particular. Usually the opposite is true. As a rule, the size of a political group is maintained by direct surrender of its voters. It was also a story that allegedly provoked this bill, namely in relation to one party, which promised its voters one, but as soon as it was elected in the Saeima, it completely broke the fur on the other side and betrayed its voters. It was thanks to this that the number of their political groups remained. Under this bill, it will be estimated that such a group is eligible for funding, although the entire group collectively transferred its voters. And there's a paradox. It is when people appear, some people who are ready to fight for what they had promised (and that is the minority), that these people will not get any funding. It's the logic that has developed. But the most important thing is that, today, in this draft law, the parties of power supported urgency, I think, is another fact. One is that they well understand that this proposal is raw, illogical, absurd. But most importantly, why did the political groups today support the urgency of this draft law, which is absolutely illogical, because this draft law will actually become operational only with the next parliamentary term, so there was no need for urgency. This is because these power parties are aware that these amendments will work for them. These amendments, prepared by the President of Latvia, will work for the political power cartel, namely those parties in power, or the political groups that provide the necessary voice for the power cartel in the Saeima, will be held together, realizing that if they choose to go outside this power cartel, to hand over this power cartel, not to serve this power cartel - they will undoubtedly be threatened by collapse. A part of the political group will certainly not want to do so, and the political group will collapse. So, in essence, this proposal is aimed at protecting the power cartel and at the opposition parties, because in principle this division is only possible for a party that is threatened with opposition or is in opposition so that the power cartel, thus divided, can settle with its political opponents or hold them under their authority. In essence, this draft law... Well, with this draft law, there's a feeling that the President of Latvia simply reopens his constituents. If that's not... and I would really call for proposals to be made at second reading, which would be logical, so that this principle, which is publicly declared but actually passed on... to have this link with the support of voters and the funding of political power... Then change it, put it in, that we count, recalculate this support to political parties on their real ratings, real support. We determine that this will be, let us say, some methodology that is approved by the Saeima, which is further evaluated - regularly evaluated! - support and regular adjusted funding for political power. Then there's some logic. Otherwise, what is happening now - simply on a quick hand, the political cartel has found another instrument so that it can make itself more comfortable to exist on its throne of power. I do not see any other logical reason why we have to bring this draft law on an urgent basis. I therefore call for proposals to be made at second reading. Let us show you what the real face of this whole event, why it is being driven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U21	Name to Member Edgar Tavar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U22	I will allow myself, perhaps, to slightly oppose my opposition colleague, Mr Zarins, for having to be attracted to ratings. Thus, the remuneration of the President of Latvia should also be linked to ratings and, in view of his current rating, the President of State should be paid each month for being in office. But one additional argument is that the President's proposals should be corrected. If we are talking about the specific wording once again, this proposal to reduce... if fractions... if more than two thirds of the number of members of the parliamentary group of a political organisation is reduced. Colleagues, this leaves us without funding... discontinuation. But what about political parties that have not been elected to the Saeima? We can also see that according to KNAB's report, the Progressive Party, which has now actually imported part of Riga into chaos, is receiving 107 thousand in peace. They're not... they have no political group at all in the Saeima, they have not entered. ‘ The Latvian Russian Union’ with all the resulting state funding is officially calculated at 143 thousand per year. Well, colleagues, “The Association of the Regions of Latvia” has not entered - 169 thousand. Then, in fact, those who have not got in will keep public funding, but those who have got in, but have probably done... There's been some change... We also know from power parties, from Karini's party there are cases... There have been obvious cases in this Saeima of some unknown or probably certain benefits being drawn from the opposition into a coalition party. So what kind of political power should be punished? We do not know what colleagues are going to change at the moment, and until the next parliamentary elections, it is far from finally. I therefore believe that this law should be open, that the draft law should be voted at first reading and, among other things, that alternative proposals should be made than had been tabled by our President of Latvia, Mr Levit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U23	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U24	Dear President, Honourable Members! As I said, there will be no change in this Saeima; money for parties, political organisations will remain the same as it is. So that the next Saeima will be able to balance, as we discussed in the Commission, and to balance, let's say, the proportions between municipalities and the Saeima, or to review the amounts. The smallest side can always be reduced, it is not a problem. I therefore call for support, because the Commission has been in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U25	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). Please, let's vote! For - 72, for - 2 and for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U26	So, as we have already voted... Proposals must be submitted by 5 p.m. tomorrow - February 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U27	And at the time of the review, the Saeima sitting...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U28	Timing of the Saeima sitting... So we're looking at it next Wednesday or if we get it... Yeah, I mean, then... We can put it on February 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U29	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals would be 17.00 on 18 February this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 24 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U30	Good evening, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good evening, colleagues! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government at first reading has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. The draft law presupposes... and has been designed to improve the legal regulation regarding the conditions for payment of benefits provided for in Article 19 of the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions in the event of injury, corruption or other health damage. It is also foreseen to extend the allowances referred to in Article 19 of the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions, which apply to officials and officials of state security institutions with special degrees of service, to officials of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau. The Commission has supported the first reading. I also call on you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U31	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U32	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 1 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-17-PT13-2363-U33	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals: 1 March this year. Dear colleagues, Members Raivis Dzintars, Ritvars Jansons, Ivars Puga, Edwins Šnore and Edmunds Teirumnieks are asking for a break in this sitting of the Saeima by 9 a.m. on 24 February this year. We must vote on this. Please call me! We will vote for a break at the Saeima meeting on 17 February until 9 a.m. on 24 February this year! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 74, it's against - 7, it's not. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also inform you of the questions that have been submitted to you. Members Sprūde, Gobzem, Možville, Nemir, Petraviča and Stepanenko have submitted the question “On interoperable Covid-19 certificates for the work of the Saeima”, which we submit to the Prime Minister for a reply. Members Stepanenko, Možvillo, Švecova, Petraviča and Sprūde have submitted a question “Additional questions on the answer to Members’ questions No. 357’, which is submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs for a reply. Members Švecova, Stepanenko, Petraviča, Možvillo and Sprūde submitted the question “On application of a typical project developed by apartment houses in the economy” that we hand over to the Minister of Economics. Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Švecova, Možvillo and Petraviča submitted the question “On the epidemiology research carried out by the Ministry” which is submitted to the Minister of Health. Members Stepanenko, Švecova, Petraviča, Sprūde and Možvillo submitted the question “On the action of the Minister, taking a commitment on behalf of Latvia to accept hate speech as an EU-wide crime”, which we hand over to the Minister of Justice to reply. Dear colleagues, registration of Members' presence. Registration is over. Interruption until 9 a.m. on 24 February this year. Good evening!
