ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U1	Honourable Members! We will begin the extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 11 August 2022. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Price Reduction Measures for Energy Prices”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U2	Hello, colleagues! Let's look at the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices” at first reading, discussed at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. So it's a bill. This draft law aims to improve the availability of housing allowance by allowing for this benefit to a larger group of people with higher incomes during the period from 1 September 2022 to 30 April 2023. In order to achieve this, it is proposed to apply a coefficient of 3. This means that, as a result of an increase in the coefficient, the guaranteed minimum income threshold for the calculation of the amount of housing benefit is EUR 327 for the first or the only person in the household and EUR 228 for other persons in the household for the calculation of the amount of any housing benefit. The increased rates will cover a larger number of households and will leave them more resources to cover their daily expenses. For solid fuel prices 2022./2023. During the heating season of the year, the draft law provides that the amount of housing allowance shall be calculated taking into account the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers No. The 809 and 18 square metres for each subsequent person in the household (if the municipality has not determined more) - for which the housing allowance is calculated, except - the amount of housing allowance for solid fuel is calculated by applying not more than 12 euros per square metre of total housing area, and the amount of housing allowance for the housing where the heating is provided by gas or electricity is calculated according to meter readings, but not more than four euros per square metre of total housing area... which is applied in addition to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 809 as set out in Annex 3. In order not to violate the time limit for the examination of applications laid down in regulatory documents, the draft law provides that the municipal social service shall consider the application for the assessment of the material situation, the granting of the social assistance allowance and the status of a poor or low-income household not later than within 40 working days of the receipt of the application and take a decision on the granting of the housing benefit from the month when the application was received. The draft law also includes state benefit for seniors, persons with disabilities, survivors from 1 November 2022 until 31 May 2023: 30 euros per month, if the amount of pensions, remuneration or state social security benefit does not exceed 300 euros per month; 20 euros per month, if the amount of pensions, remuneration or state social security benefit is between 301 euros and 509 euros per month; 10 euros per month, if the amount of pensions, remuneration or state social security benefit is between 510 euros and 603 euros per month. The state allowance of EUR 30 will also be granted and paid to a person residing in Latvia who is a beneficiary of the family allowance for children with disabilities; to an adult who has been granted refugee or alternative status in the Republic of Latvia and who is legally residing in the Republic of Latvia with a valid residence permit or a residence permit issued by the Republic of Latvia and who has reached the age set in the Law “On State Pensions” for granting an old-age pension or who, with a decision of the State Commission of Health and Work Expertcy Doctors, has been subject to invalidity and who has not reached the age set in the Law “On State Pensions” for granting an old-age pension; to a person who has been granted refugee or alternative status in the Republic of Latvia and who legally resides in the Republic of Latvia with a valid residence permit issued by the Republic of Latvia (Spear noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) or a residence permit if she or she has a child in legal care who is in possession of a decision issued by the National Commission of Health and Work Performance Experts on the determination of invalidity. The draft law also includes support for heating and heating... The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is The proposed solution consists of horizontal support to cover part of the increase in the costs of heating and heating for households from the state budget, and provides for a total of six types of support: district heating, natural gas used for heating, electricity used for heating as well as wood pellets, wood briquettes and woodwood. The draft law sets electricity ceilings above which households would be compensated for electricity at 50 per cent or 16 cent per kilowatt-hour, i.e. the State compensates for 50 per cent of the electricity price exceeding 16 cent per kilowatt-hour and the compensation electricity price does not exceed 10 cent per kilowatt-hour. Aid to cover electricity costs is aimed at those households using electricity for heating purposes. In order to alleviate the financial burden under conditions of energy charging for heating with natural gas for domestic users, as well as for users whose gasified object is a multi-apartment residential house and used for natural gas by apartment owners or tenants, where the average monthly consumption of natural gas over a 12-month period is more than 221 kilowatt-hours per month or 21 cubic metres per month, a reduction in the amount of natural gas consumed shall be applied in accordance with the terms of the natural gas sales contract or the last guaranteed supply service in respect of the price of natural gas of EUR 0,03 per kilowatt-hour. Given that the estimated difference in the price of natural gas between the previous and the next heating season is EUR 70, the aid provided for in the next heating season should be covered by 50 per cent of this price increase. In addition, given that the regulated tariff has increased significantly for household connected customers since 1 July of this year, it is envisaged to extend the period of application of the reduction fee for natural gas consumed by three months. This reduction is therefore set at EUR 0,03 per kilowatt-hour, adjusted for the extended aid period. The draft law also provides for partial compensation of the increase in the costs of district heating services for the period from 1 October 2022 to 30 April 2023 for the reduction in the cost of district heating services applied to household customers to cover the increase in the costs of heat, which is also set at 50 per cent of the difference between the heat tariff approved by the Public Service Regulatory Commission or the municipality concerned and the median heat tariff of EUR 68 per megawatt hour. Where district heating is supplied to a household user by a supplier whose tariffs have not been approved by either the regulator or the municipality, the reduction in the cost of district heating services, net of VAT, shall be set at 50 per cent of the difference between the applicable heat price excluding VAT for the month concerned and the median heat tariff of EUR 68 per megawatt-hour, but not more than EUR 300 per megawatt-hour. The period foreseen shall run from 1 October to 30 April 2023. This draft law also provides for aid to cover the increase in the costs of pellets and briquettes for heating for individual households. The price threshold for granules and briquettes is set at EUR 300 per tonne from which compensation is applied. Such a threshold has been chosen on the basis of the median of the central heating rate and the heat cost of 70 euros per megawatt-hour. Equivalent to other support measures... There is also an increase in the cost of granules or briquettes... and shall be reimbursed at 50 per cent if the cost exceeds EUR 300 per tonne but does not exceed EUR 100 per tonne. There is also a threshold - per household consumption aid of 10 tonnes of briquettes or pellets, calculated on the basis of the average area of heating systems heating pellets or briquettes. The draft law also provides for support for the purchase of wood to households. This support will be applied to wood purchased from 1 May 2022, but for which there is no certificate of payment - one-off aid of EUR 60. The aid will also be granted for firewood purchased from 1 May 2022 and bearing a certificate of payment, the purchase price of which exceeds EUR 40 perberkubikmeter, the price of which does not exceed EUR 15 perberkubikmeter. This increase will also be compensated for by 50 per cent of the other aid measures. As the wood needed for the heating season of the household is purchased in time, before the beginning of the heating season, the wood compensation is applied to the purchase of wood from 1 May 2022 until 30 April 2023. In turn, the period for receipt of aid in municipalities will be from 1 October 2022 to 30 April 2023. Applications for aid for firewood for which there is no proof of payment will be accepted from 1 October to 30 November of this year. The draft law also provides for the conditions for the payment of support mechanisms and the rights and obligations of the institutions involved. In the Commission, the draft law was requested for urgency, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U3	Thank you. The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Mr Gobzem, will you speak of urgency or will you speak in the debate? Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law on exceptional increases in energy prices”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U4	I would call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading, but we have the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U5	Yeah, thank you. So we are starting a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U6	Dear Latvian society! The clock currently shows 12 and 58 minutes. Two minutes later - one hour to two hours - electricity will cost EUR 1240 per megawatt hour. I congratulate the entire Latvian society on this. Why will electricity cost EUR 1240 per megawatt-hour? So I'll explain... because we have such a Public Service Regulatory Commission in Latvia. It is chaired by Jānis Michaelson with six members of the Board. Each member of the Board shall have an assistant. The Council shall have a Director of Public Relations and a Assistant Head. The work of the Council shall be supported by an internal auditor. The Commission employs 100 staff in eight departments, which means that public services are monitored by 100 officials, who are also monitored by 12 high-paid board members. Meanwhile, the monopolists of electricity and utilities simply put our people out. Dear people, they put you on! Immediately, in 20 seconds (I congratulate you), EUR 1240 per megawatt-hour will start. This is due to the fact that we have 100 officials and 12 members of the Public Service Regulatory Commission who do not see that there is an obvious ban on the agreement in the Baltics. How can 476 percentage points be achieved on the ‘free market’ compared to the previous year? Free market! This is not possible on the free market. It can be told by illiterates, but it cannot be told by educated people, those who understand something a little bit. How can it be that in these crises... It's like in the back of the war... During the half-year Latvenergo earns up to 100 million (80... how much it... million), while pensioners cannot pull ends together? And then you will be left out of poor gifts before the elections, but after the elections you will forget about you, after the elections you will not be able to pay your electricity bills or utility bills, and you will be taken away from your apartments and homes, and your business will be taken away... until you have fled to Lithuania, Estonia or countries where these bills are much less reasonable. The reason for this is neither war nor crisis. The reason for this is simply a monopoly for profit, and this is very well understood by both the existing power, the government, the coalition of power in the Saeima, and the public service regulator, but it does nothing. Nothing is doing, because the goal is to undress you, dear people. Open your eyes once and see, because it is not possible in all three Baltic countries, where the energy is monopolists (as I have spoken in the previous speech, respectively), that everyone has the same astronomical profit rates during the crisis. This is simply not possible without an illegal cartel. Where is the Prosecutor General, where is the law enforcement authorities, why does nobody see it? That's what this story is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U7	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U8	Colleagues! My predictions... What I've been talking about many months ago... is completely correct and perfect... What they were. Support mechanisms that could be followed - these should be in August as September approaches. We can see that the August that is approaching the elections, where each of you now... going and promising... and will tell, and there will be a new speech and a story of how we go to help you all. But it's all in time... It's too late. As early as October last year, we made proposals to reduce excise duty, to reduce VAT on food. There was a thing. And then we said that the problem is coming and it will be very big. At present, the Saeima and the expensive coalition have missed what had to be done long ago. Here you can shake your head and smile, but it's true. Each of us already feels how expensive electricity is, how expensive food is and how hard times are approaching... is still in front. Now we can see the rise in prices when we enter every shop. And what's also written in the annotation... these amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Price Reduction Measures for Energy... is also clearly written about food... that it has increased by about 40 percent. However, we do not see any support mechanisms to help in this matter. And rightly said from this troupe that they are just a small penny with which the coalition is currently trying to help. We're just... Even today, if I am not mistaken, I am reading the information that Estonia will try to limit the export of chips. At the moment, Latvia has not done anything and has not even come closer to addressing this issue. We still see large cargoes being sent out in the port of Saulkrasti every day. And we're going to get to the point that we won't have anything to even fuel. These are problems that need to be considered. If we see that on 1 October there will be elections... And when could the next coalition meet... these problems will not be addressed in the near future. For my part, it is irresponsible, as the coalition is doing at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U9	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask, as a school, in class, how many of you figured out what the honourable colleague from the committee read? How many of you have understood what will be done and what will be done? I think the writers themselves do not really understand, because each sentence is drawn out of context and served as a whole. I'll start with one of the things. Local governments are once again being thrown down - as a wastebin - by a job that cannot be done by the government. In my view, municipalities are currently being constructed as a regular application reception institution, where everyone who is building the house will have to come. Well, I think there are hardly many houses in Latvia that are zero-energy houses or passive houses. Most people use some kind of fuel. Speaking specifically about wood. I imagined that the social service of the municipality, which is currently mainly located in large centres, had a row with the recipients of the heating services and they all try to write the application. The required volume of documents does not lag behind that, so that he can declare himself in Latvia as a citizen. He must prove that he has something to do with the apartment he is going to heat. With a little comment, of course - if the institutions do not have information at their disposal. Although in the 21st century it is completely wrong if there is no information at the disposal of public authorities about a person - where he lives where he is. And we see that in order to motivate social services to do something, there is a fee for every application. In this case, the State or the Cabinet of Ministers buys social services with a premium for the examination of each application. Colleagues, what is that? Well, isn't that something crazy that's happening at the moment, you're cutting down the function of the municipalities and giving them money to keep them out: you're gonna earn it! Will this benefit reach everyone? I don't believe it. Next. As some public organisations have already pointed out, the Cabinet opens the door to the black market, and in this case, to fuel wood. Not so much that no document on the purchase of wood has been received, but rather that a very abstract unit of measurement has been mentioned - a Berkubikmeter. Since I come from the forest sector, I know that standards, as measured by firewood, are at least six, according to various criteria. There is a difference, whether the firewood is measured at three metres, with a weighted average of 0,02 to 0,016... and what factor is used to calculate the cubic meter... whether it is a broken wood in a free stock. In this case, the Cabinet of Ministers tells us that axis boys will have what to do, because broken wood in a free stock has a much smaller amount of energy than three-metre, well-loaded, say, stacked in a vehicle, wood. Officials may not be aware of this because they are not specialists in this sector. But as I read it, I can see how the people of my hands are rubbing. The clean business, you open the door. At the same time, those who want to work honestly... Currently, the Cantor of New Zealand is trying to impose various penalties, imposing different penalties on small entrepreneurs only because they have failed to show something correctly or, in the opinion of the State Revenue Service, have failed to correctly list their expenses. And here comes the country with one hand opens the black market and with the other hand... says: we're going to punish you. I do not know if this is the right time to do so, or whether this is the right time to work in this way. I will certainly be in favour of there being a moment to submit proposals. And one of my proposals will certainly be to return to the system maintained in spring, that at least electricity is reduced transmission costs or removed altogether. And this unfortunate OIK, who's been standing at Krišjānis's box for a long time, which Krišjānis is fighting to remove (I think too much text and too, well, painful)... It was what Krišjānis asked me... Say something good. For a slice. People are talking a lot at the moment. Some say the chips are not enough, others say the chips are enough. Some say the slice must stop exporting, others say... I don't know, the slice must now be protected like gold bars. Colleagues, there's a different thing. There's... There's only no one who turns it into a slice. What I stressed already three months ago is that there is currently a lack of technical capacity to break down the required particle size. It's not about the fact that there's no slice. It is about the fact that there is no one doing it at the moment. And you can't hear it. The bank's entrepreneurs, who want to buy forest machinery, are currently not financed. Nobody. With the exception of banks that are not residents of Latvia, banks that are currently working here - they are not in Latvia, as let's say, strengthened credit institutions - they are currently the only ones who speak to foresters. The rest of the banks are covered by both regulations and money laundering laws. What does not cover everything to stop the economy at the moment? Mārtiņš Kazāks agrees with this – currently banks act to some extent as robbers and exploit the situation. Try to go to the bank to open an account as a politically important person. Try and I would like to see this process how much it will cost you and how long it will take. No matter how strange I was, I went through this attempt, and the shortest waiting time was... For up to three months perhaps, and for the examination of documents, the money to be paid would be from 250 euros, although as a person I already have an account in another Latvian registered financial... in the bank, let's say what it is. What do I mean by that? State aid will be paid through a transfer to a person, and if this person does not have an account, he cannot actually open it, even though he is not a politically important person. Currently, banks refuse to open accounts for customers. It is a problem, and it comes with all this heating problem, a heat problem, big bills. Is there a solution? I can't see it here. So, in my opinion, it is completely inconceivable to adopt this document at the moment as it is, because, as I said at the beginning, how many of you, colleagues, understood what is written in this document? So I call on you to decide, however, that there may be proposals in good time, and to recycle this piece of paper prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. And obviously it will be up to the Members to do so. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U11	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U12	Colleagues, a number of other Member States of the European Union have already two months ago adopted much more serious and wider support mechanisms for their citizens in a crisis situation, not only to support the low-income, not only to cover... increase in electricity and energy, but also by providing for other support mechanisms such as freezing certain prices, imposing a ceiling... Hungary, Finland, Germany and France have put in place much more serious packages for their citizens to keep production facilities in order to minimise the loss to people caused by price increases. We are still just continuing to discuss, evaluate and weigh. Yes, this bill and the proposed solutions will help families a little, by just one third, but in Latvia about 30-40 percent of the population lives on the poverty line. And for these people, this support will only help a little. I am not talking about those people who are very worried, including the middle class, who live at home and receive heating bills. They will also face an enormous burden on heating bills. Yes, during the discussion of the committee, the Ministry of Economics offered to save energy and take energy-saving measures to improve energy efficiency of homes and apartments and apartments. It's just another question: does any of those who sit here in the room know that to expect, for example, a change of heat pump... from the gas... It takes six months. Yeah, six months. Even people who want to become energy-efficient and green cannot do so thanks to you, dear colleagues in the position, and your operational, timely and competent action. Thanks to you, they will receive invoices that they will not be able to pay. Thanks to your non-professionality and laxity, they will be forced to leave their home unbearable heat... Because of the burden. And one more question. Lithuania proposes to reduce energy consumption. Do we set a good example here in the Saeima room? Are we saving electricity? We have lights in all the halls, all the corridors. And we demand people to save them! Well, colleagues, maybe let's set an example and then let's ask others! And again, let us professionally carry out our duties so that energy-efficient measures are provided to people in good time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U13	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U14	On behalf of the Commission, I can tell you that the technical solutions currently available allow automatic support to citizens who use gas for heating, as well as... connected to the central heating system. Applications may be submitted by electronic signature. If there is no such possibility, the usual practice can be used - to present them. In order to ensure that the application is examined, additional resources of EUR 8 per application are allocated to municipalities. As well as support mechanisms, they are based on the calculation of ministries, taking into account historical consumption data and calculations provided by service providers for prices in the next heating season. And there is also a call for unscrupulous wood suppliers to choose those whose reputation could not be called into question. This draft law was supported by the Commission. I also call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Exceptional Increase in Energy Prices”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U16	The Commission has decided that the deadline for the submission of proposals is 15 minutes, and the examination of the draft law is today.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U17	The deadline for proposals is 15 minutes. Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 11 August this year by 13:35, consideration - at the sitting of the Saeima on 11 August. Thank you. Colleagues, the agenda of this sitting, too, has been examined. Please call me! Please register the Members! Colleagues, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, after the proposals have been tabled, will go on to examine them and we are also going to convene today a third extraordinary meeting to discuss the draft law at final reading. Follow me, you will be sent information in a text message about the third extraordinary meeting scheduled for today. Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U18	Colleagues! Not registered: Iveta Benhen-Beeken... is, Uldis Budrikis, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Ilmārs Dūritis, Inga Goldberga, Artuss Neimanis, Armands Krauze, Romanas Naudiņš, Ralfs Nemiro, Vitalijs Orlovs, Ivans Ribakovs, Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Ilga Šuplinska, Vita Anda Steel, Jānis Urbanovičs and Viktors Valainis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-08-11-PT13-2400-U19	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
