ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Candidates for the office of Ministers! We will begin the Saeima sitting of the Republic of Latvia. On the agenda are issues outstanding at the ordinary sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 19 May 2022. Changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting as approved by the Saeima Bureau have been tabled. The Cabinet of Ministers proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 1485/Lp13) for transfer to the Commission. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Prime Minister asks for the draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister of the Interior Kristaps Eklonas to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Prime Minister asks that the draft decision on the expression of trust by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indicicsone, be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking to include in the agenda of the meeting the draft law “On the prohibition of the exhibition of objects that are famous for the Soviet and Nazi regimes and their dismantling in the territory of the Republic of Latvia” and to include it before the agenda of the meeting in item 26. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Milestones.) Members have reservations. Let's vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion on the agenda of the draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for the Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia” before paragraph 26 of the agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 67, against - 17, refrains - not. The decision is taken - the draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks to include a statement on the agenda of the sitting on Janis Vitenbergs 13. Renewing the parliamentary office and including it as paragraph 1 on the agenda of sittings. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Statement by Mr Vitenberg 13. Reinstatement of the parliamentary mandate. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U2	Colleagues! In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, and with the application of Jānis Vitenbergs of 18 May 2022, the Board of Parliament announced that Janis Witenberg was being restored. 13 The parliamentary mandate. Consequently, 13. Aivars Geidāns, whose mandate was temporarily approved by the Saeima while the elected Member served as a minister from the list of candidates for the KPV LV party in the Zemgale constituency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U3	Thank you. Colleagues, we have heard the announcement. I invite Janis Wittenberg to sit in Saeima's meeting room. And thank you to Aivars Geidans for his work 13. In the family. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Project “On Expression of Trust to the Minister of the Interior Kristaps Eklon” Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U4	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members and honourable Members, If this is the moment to think about what our joint work has been since the beginning of this parliamentary term, since we formed a government, we have actually lived like this: from the crisis. When establishing government, the first job that many may have forgotten was to deal with the big bank... the crisis of confidence that was in our country. An international scandal... Not only our country's reputation, but perhaps our economy was also threatened with serious consequences if we entered the so-called grey or black list from which we succeeded. We got out of this crisis - not just for us, but for the whole world - a collective crisis that... The pandemic has broken for two years. As I was just reminded... being in contact with a person who, although a pandemic seems to have resigned, has still become ill... It's a reminder that it's not behind all of us yet, but... We well remember the challenge that all of us, society as a whole, had to deal with. We were able to deal with this crisis when we were still facing the Belarusian border crisis last summer: the Belarusian Government organised third-party flights to Minsk and then, with the help of its security structures, tried to make these people cross the external borders of the European Union illegally, and thus also the external borders of Latvia. That is also what we managed successfully. It is true that the situation has not completely disappeared - such attempts are still taking place from time to time. But during this time our national border guard, police and armed forces have learned to cooperate excellently. And our border with Belarus is being monitored perfectly. So we got around to deal with the situation of the Belarusian border. Then Russia first - unprovoked - attacked Ukraine, and this war has now lasted for more than three months - with all the consequences for the world security situation. And, of course, it has a direct effect on us too, that is, with the Ukrainian civilian... or with so-called Ukrainian refugees who have appeared in Latvia. We, the public, are trying to welcome them, to include them, to help them and to protect them. Throughout this time we have shown incredible endurance, both as a society and as a Saeima and a government. The balance that we have held in the country has been necessary as a pledge for a ship that, despite the waves, does not allow the ship to overturn. In my opinion, we have the task and duty to keep our country stable in these times, so as to help to bring it away even today. In this context, it is extremely important that the government can continue its full-time work. And specifically, we are talking today about the approval of two more new ministers. This is precisely about Mr Eclon. The position of the Minister of the Interior is currently being fulfilled, it is being carried out by our Minister of Defence, but he has, as he says, full-time work in his ministry. We need a man who could take the beauty back... full-time... in the home system. Mr. Eklon is General, he is Deputy Head of the State Fire and Rescue Service. He's about 30 years old in this service, and he's got his fields... No one can doubt this. This Ministry has been entrusted since the war started, since 24 February, when this frontal attack on all Ukraine started on the Russian side, to coordinate and direct the reception of Ukrainian refugees in Latvia. And this challenge is really big, because at first we thought it would be about three months... but now, in three months' time, we see that this situation will, unfortunately, last and could last for an unknown period of time. This means that we need to think - once again - about how to help those Ukrainian refugees who cannot and will not be able to enter the labour market in the long term. We have a lot of children... We have schools open... Almost five thousand Ukrainian children have signed up to our training system. Some 3500 Ukrainians have already found a job in Latvia, but overall, there are approximately 30,000 in our country, of which almost 10 thousand are also accommodated in various ways. And that is specifically the task and advantage of this minister as a key person - to propose how we can best cope with this in the medium and long term. And so I think it's very important that we make this item... that the Saeima could support Mr Eklona's work in this capacity so that the government could be fully in place again. I will talk about the other Minister when we come to the next item on the agenda, but in this case I stress that this is one of the two items that we must fulfil so that we can continue to fully assist Ukrainian refugees and also ensure internal security in the country as a whole. I call on you, Members of the Saeima, to support Kristaps Eklone, to vote in favour of him being the next Minister for the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U5	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U6	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Nominating General Kristaps Eklone for the work of the Minister for the Interior, Development/About! Three basic issues are in place: continuing to implement changes that depend on national internal security; strengthening services that depend on citizens' security and civil protection; and cooperation between all sectors in crisis management. Only in this way can multi-sectoral matters be dealt with, such as assistance to Ukrainian refugees or the prevention of hybrid threats. On the continuation of change. Over the last 11 months, long-term delayed changes in the field of home affairs have been introduced and partially implemented: structural reforms of the police are under way, which will make it possible for the police to better ensure criminal investigations and public order; salaries of investigators and operational staff have been raised; the Centre of Investigators will be launched in the summer, which will provide long-term necessary support for the professional development of investigators; the Government has supported the establishment of the Academy of Internal Security; and recent work is under way to sign a consortium agreement between the State Police College, the University of Latvia and the Riga Stradins University; a hybrid attack from Belarus has been successfully launched; mobility allowances have been introduced for border guards working on the border; a 50-kilometre barn wire fence has been built; and ambitious work is under way to build large fences in all the priority stages by the end of the year. How to strengthen the capacity of services to protect citizens, including how to strengthen civil protection? General Eklon has been working in the State Fire and Rescue Service for more than 30 years. There is no person in Latvia who would better know the field of civil protection. He will remind the partners in the government of the importance of civil protection again and again, without which there is no successful solution to the problems accumulated for 10 years. To date, the civil protection capacities and responsibilities of municipalities have not been sufficiently strengthened and crisis management capacity has not been established at the centre of the government. Its necessity is pointed to us both by international experts and by collective crises... the municipal cheese training. All these changes require further leadership by the Minister of the Interior. Cooperation with other sectors. The link between internal and external security is clear and Development/About! ensure that Mr Eklona's efforts to strengthen internal security are always supported by the Ministry of Defence. However, there are other areas, such as support for Ukrainian citizens, where solutions are only possible through cooperation and on the ‘one-page’ of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Welfare. And it also requires the support of the Head of Government. We call on the representatives of all political forces in the government and the Saeima to cooperate more closely and more responsibly in this area. Finally, I wish Mr Eclon to stand up successfully for the fact that internal security is a priority for all governments and society as a whole, not only in words, but also in actions. Indeed, one is not a soldier. Unfortunately, there is a real war in Europe, and the real war needs a real team, such as a unit of firefighters and rescuers, whose motto is clear and simple: "One for all, all for one!" Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U7	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U8	Hello, Latvian society! I will vote against and explain why. I have voted against everything that Krišjānis Kariņš has done, because it was not in the interests of the Latvian people. It is clear that using the argument that Mr Eclon is a professional is a rather weak argument because it would be strange that a man who has worked for 30 years in the fire service is not a professional. If he weren't a professional, he could probably only be a minister's friend or a friend of several ministers. It is clear that Mr Eklona is likely to be approved as a minister today. That is why, in the words of the road - as Minister for the Interior, I would like to begin to release Mr Eklona from office as Minister for the Interior... Mr Jānis Bordāns, Minister of Justice, is hereby appointed Minister of Justice. Let me explain. This week Latvia was frozen with the news that two persons were detained for ordering and organising one of the most serious crimes, namely the businessman Michael Uļmans and the businessman Babenko. Uncompromising face of the rule of law and its expression Jānis Bordāns in his life have long been a clear trust in relations with both detainees. This is demonstrated by Jānis Bordāns as a board member in a company such as “Municipality” Ltd. (Interface: “On the topic!” )... That's proof...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U9	Mr Gobzem, however, I call on you to talk about the issue that we are looking at, namely, the expression of trust to the Minister for the Interior, Kristaps Eklon.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U10	I am also referring to the issue of Mr Eklona's first job, which he should carry out as Minister for the Interior, because in a legal country, the Minister for the Interior must ensure the rule of law. And the rule of law begins with the fact that a person who has a trust relationship with detained persons for one of the most serious crimes cannot be in the position of Minister of Justice. So, Mr. Eclon, I hope... if you take up your job today, as the first of your responsibilities you will do directly... to introduce an uncompromising rule of law, I can change my point of view, but if you ignore these facts, I will be your biggest critic, including on issues related to your previous experience, only that they have expressed their opinion and have not agreed to compulsory vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U11	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U12	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear colleagues, First of all, however, I would like to return to how we were in this situation at all, and why we have this issue placed on the table today - why we have to vote for a new minister. And here, no doubt, on 9 May, beyond the events of 10 May, their further escalation was the basis and, in my view, a reasonable basis. We, the Group of the Greens/Family Union, also made a request for a ministerial resignation: there was to be political responsibility here. In a situation where high officials, politicians began to show each other with their finger - then the government was guilty, then the Riga City Council was guilty - who had to take political responsibility. It should not be that a tractor from Tukums was responsible for the situation on 10 May. Colleagues, now that we have a new candidate for the minister... I think, of course, the candidate is a professional... A very large number of Members of the Saeima, heads of local government, experts have had direct cooperation with Mr Eklona in his former post. I have learned quite a lot these days to meet and talk with experts in the field and, indeed, he is a professional in the field, so far he has done his work according to the highest quality standards, and I very much hope that he will continue to follow the same principles as the minister, which he has... He has done so far. However, it must be understood that the challenges that Mr Eclon will face are beyond the possibilities of one ministry. And here I will also mention one of the main topicalities of the present time: Ukrainian refugees of war. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we will today vote in favour of an extension of the 30-day period for the resettlement of Ukrainian military refugees, that we will extend these 90 days - this is not a victory of the government; it is not an acceptance of Ukrainian refugees. It is just that the government has not coped with this transitional period. Can anyone say today that we were ready for this 90-day transition period? Can anyone say that it is only the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior? Currently, in the government, this process is organized in the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance. And who's the chief responsible then? Should it not be the head of government in this case? We see that the Head of Government is commenting on this issue as if it were an outside viewer and is not, by its very nature, prepared to take direct, unambiguous lead in this process. I do not think that the situation could change significantly after we approve Mr Eclon, with regard to who will be the leader of this process. I think that Mr Eclon will have to take the beauty of his hands and take the leadership of this process with full responsibility, regardless of which ministries it is subject to - whether it is a question of benefits, or whether it is a matter of transport. It will have to be one minister who will have to take the lead. In a way, I can only say thank you to Mrs Golubeva as Minister. At least on this point, she really tried... take the lead in this process, but its possibilities, as we can see, were beyond the competence of one ministry. Mrs Golubeva could not deal with matters falling within the competence of the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Education and Science. Unfortunately, the situation is that I think Mr Eclon will have to take this responsibility, because there are no other options. If the Prime Minister doesn't do that, then someone has to do it. The thirty-day extension is a general failure of the government. And that is what the new minister must also understand: that is the general failure of the government. Other internal reforms, which have already been mentioned today from this troupe, must, of course, be continued, but I think there must also be greater dialogue with the Saeima, because there has been a lack of dialogue with the Saeima in driving these internal reforms. Hardly all Members of the Saeima know what reforms are going on inside the Ministry of the Interior. The dialogue should be more open, with greater involvement of the Saeima, at least by informing what is happening in these processes. But I'll go further. I think one big question is about costs. Against this background, we have also missed what Mr Prime Minister mentioned today in relation to the crisis with Belarus... when Belarus in some way launched this hybrid war, which showed all our inaction regarding the construction or non-construction of the Belarusian fence. With regard to this fence, we have had a number of requests, and this, in our view, has been a purely cost issue. Not only do we have to look at how we do things, but we also need to keep track of how much it costs us, how much it costs to the public budget, so that we can do it as efficiently as possible and save the public budget as much as possible. Is that what we are doing right now? Colleagues, we can see how the prices for fence supplies have changed, and the crisis is still... Ukraine's war had not yet begun, all this happened before, and these costs increased gradually. We can see how and how we are now paying for the reception of Ukrainian war refugees. Undoubtedly, we must bring our time, money, resources to help Ukrainian war refugees, but we must also not forget how much it costs. In the autumn, we will have enough energy challenges for ourselves, where support is needed. We cannot create internal tensions, we cannot end up in a situation where we begin to compare how much Latvian man gets... Resident... What benefits... and what benefits are received by Ukrainian military refugees. Unfortunately, this has already begun. It's already begun. People are already doing this - they are already comparing. We need to look at how to integrate these people as quickly as possible into our societies so that we can escape. We will have huge energy tensions, we will have to help all Latvians, not just Ukrainian refugees. That's why what Mr. Eclon already in the first month... in essence has been tasked - in the first month to achieve a clear system of how in the long term... not only for two or three weeks or for one month, but for a month any Ukrainian war refugee would have a clear answer to where he will be in September, October, November if he will not have the opportunity to return home... let him have a clear answer, so that he does not sit as he is sitting on the suitcases right now and waiting, and he does not understand the signals of the government - there will be support or there will be no support. Hundreds of children don't... The kids who've come here... they are offered to take off their holidays. Everything that happened showed that we were not ready for this transition. I would say more: the government in general was not ready for it. Dear colleagues, Today, we, the whole group, will also support the appointment of Mr Eklona, in this way giving the Minister the widest possible mandate - the widest possible mandate! - so that he can work and start to face the challenges that the Minister has from day one. Our group will be open and will participate in any way by providing assistance involving municipalities in order to meet the challenges that this minister is currently on the table. And, as I said, we must not forget that these challenges are not only his competence, but also that of other ministers. There will be no result if the entire government does not come to the help of this minister. Thank you, and I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U13	Thank you. The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U14	The “Republic” party shall stand as professional candidates for ministerial posts. At the moment, of course, we see that Mr Eclon is and could be a professional Minister for the Interior. We see examples of what it means to put in politicians who absolutely have no vision of how to develop this structure of power. Every time we see how it comes... the former Minister of the Interior with a leaf and reads a text that he has not written himself. Do we really want to see such a minister in Latvia, who reads from the page but is unable to see five steps forward? We very much hope that Mr Eclon will be able to sort out this sector, but it has only been given a few months. These few months are not enough to sort out the same police. The police are in a catastrophic situation right now: pay... many people have no motivation; we see these 11 million who have disappeared, which were designed for the home affairs system to sort out police stations. The same is true for the State Fire and Rescue Service, which is in a catastrophic shortage of equipment. We also see the administration of citizenship and migration issues. Until recently, there was information that 18 thousand Latvians would not have access to documents before the elections so that they could vote. We see that the situation has deteriorated in the course of the year... to the bad side. And here you need a professional who is able to arrange. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) I can therefore say that I will support Mr Eclon's candidacy with the hope that these things will be arranged... on the right side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U15	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U16	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Conservative Group is pleased to have succeeded in bringing the professional candidate for the Minister for Home Affairs forward sufficiently quickly, and this vote on the expression of trust will, of course, support this candidate, but I would like to point out five things that the Conservatives will actively follow... how the Minister is able to direct this case. So the first thing. And then there's a little... We are already getting to the point where we are in this situation at all. Conservatives expect decisive - decisive! - the response to the provocations of the anti-State forces which, without doubt, took place before the parliamentary elections and also before 15 November, the date relating to the dismantling of the occupation monument, on which the Saeima will also decide... this period will be tense, and we expect a sharp, immediate reaction in cooperation with security structures to limit the activities of anti-State forces on the territory of Latvia. I must also remind you that the border crisis has not ended, and there is still an emergency in the border regions. The dictator of Belarus cannot be fully calculated. Although the situation has improved slightly (in the sense that there have not been so many illegal border crossings recently), the crisis is in any case continuing and I must say that we have failed with the raising of the fence. So that will probably be one of the first works with which the Minister will have to go on a driving train. The fence must be. Lithuania is a good example. The third thing. In connection with the elections. It could be said that it would be very, very bad if part of Latvian citizens could not participate in the elections for some reason, because they would not have a valid identity document. Perhaps the PMLP issue should not be dealt with in isolation only in the context of the Ministry of the Interior, maybe it is necessary to discuss cooperation with other ministries, under whose supervision there is capacity to assist in this matter. The fourth is the working environment of the police and not only the working environment of the police, but of the internal structures in general. I'm just about... In fact, yesterday, taking into account the various anti-State activities, I visited a section in Riga, and it has to be said that nothing has changed much in the city of Riga as regards how the police work - if compared to two thousand years. Of course, a new computer technology has been bought, but the environment has not improved significantly as such. I remember that in the coalition and in the government, too, we have discussed the need for sufficient resources to be devoted specifically to improving the working environment of the home sector. There have already been concrete projects and certain funds have been earmarked for this. So the question is, how will it be? And the fifth thing. We must ensure - especially at the moment within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior - that the civil protection system functions effectively, which must, of course, be assessed in the context of comprehensive national protection. It should be recalled that in the civil protection system, the structures of the Ministry of the Interior are coordinating, and our call is to work hard with local governments, as well as to implement, if necessary (and not only if necessary), the training process, if necessary, the physical training process or so-called table games and everything else, in order to strengthen the civil protection system in Latvia... as well as understanding among local government staff and potential regions of the population of possible action in the event of a civil crisis (and not only a civil crisis). Good wind! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U17	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U18	Dear President of the Saeima. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I truly admire the courage of Kristaps Eklon to take on the duties of Minister for the Interior a few months before the end of this term, especially when he sees the background in this post, what heritage has been left in connection with the purchase of the border and the misfortunes around what heritage has been left... i.e. what chaos has been left in the Office for Citizenship and Migration in relation to the arrangements for the issuing of identification and identity documents. We see what chaos has been left with regard to the reception of refugees, and how many gaps there are. Despite the short deadline left in this term... to this government, I truly look at Kristaps Eklone with great hope, because I welcome the work he has done so far. I have read and heard of his vision of taking the oath of office by officials to serve the interests of society as a whole. I know that the top officials of the KGB, all of them in service, have taken this oath. And I really wish you to serve the interests of the whole of society, to serve our country in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, not the interests of members of one political party's political bureau. Good luck!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U19	Thank you. Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U20	Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Minister! Colleagues, colleagues! Meeting audiences and listeners! Today we will decide on the expression of trust to the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Latvia General Kristaps Eklonas, who has experienced an internal security, civil protection and rescue service professional with 33 years of reliable service for Latvia. Mr. Eclon is the man of the team. Work in the team during this time is particularly important. With experienced leaders in the team you can achieve excellent results and create the necessary sense of security for every citizen of Latvia. Kristaps Eklons has been a team man in his field at the State Fire and Rescue Service, now his service to Latvia will continue at the Ministry of the Interior and the Cabinet of Ministers. The Minister’s candidate is a leader who is able to join forces for good work and focus on the goals to be achieved. The General is a civil protection expert who is ready to tackle the problems at a new level, has led various crises... led the rescue work during the Zolitūde tragedy, participated in the disposal of various major fires and their consequences... in flood situations, led and represented service issues in the Saeima and ministries. Participated in several international missions in the world and has been in contact with colleagues in Ukraine every week to coordinate support for victory. There are also fires that need to be extinguished, but in the transmitted sense - war in Ukraine, refugees in Latvia, the hybrid attack on the border with Belarus and the resilience of society. Mr Eclon, whom I have had the honour of getting to know in the last days, the warmth and humanity are values that will enable us to continue to increase respect, trust and cooperation between the home affairs system and society as a whole. The work of the Ministry of the Interior is extensive. The work undertaken by Minister Marija Golubeva in education, the construction of border infrastructure, wage-raising and other areas must continue responsibly in order to ensure the smooth development of the area of home affairs in the future and Mr Eklona has shown his commitment to continue. Well-paid, highly-valued service workers who have received education in a modern environment - that is the way to go. Soon we will see results. Work on the creation of the "Internal Security Academy" consortium is ongoing. As has already been mentioned, the government has adopted a plan to raise pay for the home sector in the coming years. It is necessary to continue monitoring the implementation of improvements in the issuing of ID documents in the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, as well as, together with the State Police Administration, to do everything to improve police responsiveness and preparedness in the face-to-face security challenges. Finally, we need to strengthen national civil protection capabilities in government, ministries, institutions, municipalities and strengthen the capacity of every citizen, the ability to act in crisis situations. It is necessary to implement the strategy already developed by the Ministry of the Interior on Latvia, which is among the five safest countries in Europe, realizing that investments in internal security will make it possible to guarantee a sense of security for everyone in Latvia, safe conduct of entrepreneurship and reduce violations. ( Intercretion: Thank you!) ) I invite the Saeima to support the new Minister for the Interior – General Eklon, who is a Latvian patriot, a reliable member of the team (Interface: “Thanks!” ) and a human leader. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U21	Thank you. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U22	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Sir, First of all, I want to express my support in the context of finally looking at the possibility of appointing a professional person in government. In this case, a person is or actually... to be more precise, Mr Eclon, with stickers, which means that he not only understands the situation from inside, but has also actually been in this structure for a long time and is very well aware of the situation. Undoubtedly, at this time, Mr Eclon, you will have to face such a somewhat unexpected situation, where you will often come up with good initiatives and face the Ministry of Finance, which unfortunately is not always prepared to support all the necessary initiatives, while, of course, aligning it with budgetary opportunities. But the Prime Minister is also the one who sets the agenda for the meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers, and it is possible that there will have to be up there. But, of course, that's a little... a block of questions related to such hurtful things... There are human passports... the procedures for issuing identification documents. In several Member States of the European Union, there is a procedure: when a person arrives at an institution only once, taking pictures, filling in... all necessary data and then receiving the identity document by post and not by twice. We have this opportunity. Moreover, if we look at the queues today, then a person who wants to apply for an identity document must wait three to four weeks and the nearest opportunity, for example, for the Rigaer, is unfortunately in Aluksne. Two times to go back and forth - firstly, it is not green-thinking; secondly, it requires a man full of two working days. You could say good-bye, at least one working day. It is very important to continue the work related to the construction of the fence. We are not talking just about strengthening the Belarus border at the moment, but also about strengthening the Russian border. Russia has shown itself to be absolutely... To be precise, not Russia, but Putin's regime has shown itself as an unpredictable partner, and so we cannot really predict any stability here, and for some time we will have to think about how to strengthen stability. What happened yesterday is, in fact, a very serious crime discovered - an order murder that was investigated for a long time. The state police had said that the work was really moving. But there's another undetected murder, and it's a sworn murder of lawyer Pavel Rebenok. Although several experts have said there is progress, we hope to see the results of this work as well. So I wish you luck right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U23	Thank you. The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U24	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! We see the loss of office as a previous minister in the performance of his duties, and the new minister has said that he will continue his work. Well, maybe we shouldn't take an example from the previous minister, because many things she just didn't solve. We remember these same 11 million, which were intended to arrange the State Police departments in Riga, and in the end this money was re-distributed and the police remained without the arranged deposit. When we ask where the money remained, we have no answer. Still in the regions... Of course, the commanders are dressed in new uniforms, but people who do work have not received these new uniforms and walk in the old, shattered. Most recently one of the depots was visited by students and, speaking to them... then they say, are there really fire-fighters working on such ruins? Still in the regions, firefighters are lying in spring beds. This is one of the main tasks, because the people who do this job are patriots of their own country and do not deserve such jobs, such deposit. For example, we can mention the storage of Kuldiga, which is in a catastrophic state. We see that, not in this short time, you will be able to do something, but perhaps to the next parliamentary elections. There were a lot of projects going on, but they were stopped. You have also been there, you have seen all of this braked, but in this short time you can raise these issues. You can explain where these 11 million are left; you can explain why this fire station is needed. But, as my colleague said, you will always face the Ministry of Finance, which will say: we do not have money for these things. Well, then we have to assess, and Members also have to assess what we need and what we do not need. We can throw money away in a lot of vaccines, but we can't sort out the basic things. ( Interface: “Give us a cell phone! ” ) What I wanted to mention is that one such black spot is perhaps about these people, about the representatives of your trade who came to the Saeima and expressed their opinion on compulsory vaccination. You told them a roll, but maybe you didn't want it at all, maybe it was a task from someone else. So I wish you luck, but you have a lot of work that's... to be achieved. Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U25	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U26	Hello, colleagues! I would like to say that there are at present many fires in the home sector which, with fire-fighters' equipment, will not be extinguished. I therefore wish Mr Eclon's endurance, his mind and the support of his colleagues. Good luck!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U27	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U28	Development/About! You can, of course, climb into a tribunal and stand up your minister, but the objective reality of life is very simple. The previous Minister for the Interior was absolutely incompetent, did nothing and, more importantly, for Development/About! there is no person, no one able to serve as a minister, no minister, not just an internal minister. That is the only reason why Mr Eclon is moving today. That must be said from the platform, there are no other reasons. It's a party... Dear people, if you think to vote in the elections for Development/About! then it is a party that has no competent people to direct the positions of ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U29	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U30	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Before I express my voice on Mr Eclon and my vote, I would like to take a little look at the situation that we have reached where we are now; why a monument or how we use to call it... which is intended to be demolished with two ministers. I believe (and I will explain why I believe that the Prime Minister himself, no one else, is the first and foremost responsible for this situation. Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine by anyone who followed the public processes in Latvia, it was clear that one of our biggest dates of internal security challenges will be 9 May and all related - the gatherings at Putin's temple, which we still have in Pārdaugava, but which we will already tear down. What, then, is the course of action at this point, conscious of all this? The President goes on a mission. Prime Minister goes on a mission. The Minister of the Interior is on a mission next morning. I am not saying that we should not go to Canada, but there is probably something to talk about in terms of our safety. But what was to be absolutely clear was that on these dates - 9, 10. - Everyone's on site. And these stories about micro-management, that it's not the Prime Minister and Ministers that will deal with micro-management... It's not micro-management. There's no noise in this macrocase. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... there are no micro things, there are no such small things here. Even a tractor can be crucial and convert micro into macro. That is, in my opinion, the direct responsibility of senior officials: not to be on the ground in a crucial situation for the country. I would like to thank the security services that have done their job. We may also have succeeded to some extent, because Russia of the aggressor had been caught up with its events on the front and had no time to plan better provocations here than they could in other circumstances. So that is the responsibility of the Prime Minister, no one else at this moment. As regards the candidate for the Minister, Mr Eklona. Thirty years in the service have probably told themselves that a person is experienced and professional. Man's from the system. Of course, on the one hand, it is right for politicians to come to politics, but there are circumstances... and we are in special circumstances - these are the conditions of the war of the front country where, in a certain case, we can reach people outside a direct political environment. In that sense, I also consider this to be the right decision from Development/About! parties under specified conditions. I will support Mr Eklona in this position, because he must be a minister at this time. I hope that he will be able to carry out his task in honour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U31	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U32	Hello, dear colleagues! I'm not sure I'm not going to get a roll of order (interface.) other options no longer say your opinion, but on this subject all... But everything changed on 24 February... which until now has not changed for 30 years. I wrote the Golubeva Demission because Mary... In the Commission, the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, we worked in an accelerated regime for a month, we created a variety of draft laws so that they could be observed, so that there were no such weddings that took place on May 9, 10 and 11. And here's personally for me... It is an insult to me, as head of the commission, as well as to the other Members who took part in this work, because you simply ignored the housework done by the Saeima. And that's why I also wrote this case... Now I want to make it known to you openly, I don't like to talk, talk and so on behind my back. Mr Pouce, don't cover, please, now with Mrs Golubeva's back. And in this case... Mrs Golubeva, it was a great frantic, because your own parliamentary secretary came with a shaking hand... that there must be a day of memory for the victims of Ukraine, and we did so. It came and offered... that there will be no pyrotechnic shoter: 9 May - taboo, and 10. - taboo. We did it. But where it was (interruption.) Is it natural? Where did this happen in nature? And here's why I wrote it, too. And... Maria, I think that in this case it worked as a trigger for why there are these negotiations here. What (Interdependence) went on with Mr. Wittenberg, I'm sorry, it's your internal affairs... and so on. Mr. Eclon (Interface) It's gonna be hard. It's short and quick, so... That's it, but... So that I support your candidacy, and I thank you for agreeing. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you, Mrs Voika, for not taking part. And (Interior call.) Thank you, Mr Stein, for not offering your candidacy to the Saeima for this ministerial post either. Mr. Eclon, endurance for you! Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U33	I closed the debate. Prime Minister, do you have anything to add, explain? No, no. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Expression of Trust to the Minister of the Interior Kristaps Eklon”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( The Hall is full of hands.) Congratulations to Kristaps Eklone on his appointment as Minister for the Interior. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin's intermediate call. Pause. Flowers are served.) Thank you. On the agenda - draft decision on the expression of trust to Minister for Economics Ilze Indricsone. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. ( across the line: “Not here to come. ”) ; methacrylics.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U34	Dear President of the Saeima. Members and Members! I have already described the situation in general - why it is very important that the Cabinet can continue to work in full. I congratulate Mr Eklona on his appointment as Minister. And thank you, colleagues, for your vote. The second item of the Minister that we have to fill is that of the Minister for Economic Affairs... We are well aware that one of the great challenges that our country is facing in connection with the Russian war in Ukraine is to ensure our energy independence from the Russian Federation; that we could ensure that our country could never ever be blackmailed in any way any more in the field of energy, as it can actually do at the moment, as is actually happening - on the Russian side - for the whole of Europe. The candidate, Mrs Ilze Inricksones, has long been a parliamentary secretary in this ministry; there should be no doubt about her competence and knowledge here. I have met her twice since she was put forward (last time yesterday) and we have been talking about these issues. I very much look forward to your support for her in this - Minister - item so that not only the Minister of Economics, but... I would once again have a minister to work with so that we can continue and resolve these very difficult issues. So I call on you to support Ilzi Incricson to become the next minister for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U35	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U36	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Sir, Colleagues! We are in an unprecedented time so far: the period of the Covid-19 pandemic has just passed, and the shock caused by the energy price crisis is now continuing with Russia's brutal war in Ukraine. We are all involved from the first day of war, already with 24 February, but in our case they are not continuous air alarms, killed children or destroyed cities; this war affects Latvia's economy, business and every citizen, as well as the price increase. That is why, in this geopolitical situation, we need to make clear and precise decisions more quickly than ever on energy security and independence. It is necessary to help our entrepreneurs restore the broken supply chains and reorient their export markets. Science and business must be brought together so that we can offer globally competitive and high-value products that boost our economic performance and the well-being of our citizens. My main priority as Minister of Economics will be to continue the course of energy independence initiated by Jānis Vitenbergs. As Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, I worked with colleagues to develop a strategy for the supply of natural gas for the next heating season and beyond, giving up Russian gas. The necessary security margins are provided both in the short term and in the... There are plans for both use of the neighbouring terminal - liquefied natural gas terminal, as well as construction of a terminal in Latvia in the coming years, and these plans must be implemented. By addressing the current challenges of energy security, we have also ensured that European Union funding is linked to both energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energy. We are already implementing a programme for private houses - installation of solar panels, as well as heat energy producers - conversion of heat to renewable sources. There is still a need to conclude the preparatory programmes of around €388 million for improving the energy efficiency of businesses and multi-apartment housing and the transition to renewable sources of energy. Capacity for solar and wind power needs to be built and energy efficiency needs to be significantly and more profoundly promoted by the heating of multi-apartment buildings and public buildings, because the best energy is that we do not consume. I very much look forward to productive cooperation with the Ministry of Welfare and other responsible ministries so that we move forward faster with the development of a targeted support programme, partly compensating citizens for the cost of energy prices. The Minister will continue a close and regular dialogue with major business organisations, both in response to their problems and in calling for a discussion on the challenges of our economy, because it is economic growth that will provide more resources for the state and citizens to ensure safety, education, health. Entrepreneurs already have the resources to reorient... and increase the competitiveness of our economy. We, the National Union, have prioritised the availability of high-quality housing that meets family needs. We have expanded the support programme for the purchase of housing for families with children through the introduction of a state subsidy "Volsts". For the first time, public guarantees are also available for the purchase of housing for families where the child is still waiting. The sustainability of this programme must continue to be ensured for the years to come. I will continue to pursue a policy to improve access to housing, as the situation outside the capital region is, to put it mildly, catastrophic. In order to attract specialists in regions that are more distant from Riga and to invite people to return to Latvia, adequate accommodation is required, so we are also working on the new rental house programme, and this is what we have to implement together with local governments. There are many challenges and challenges, but the scenes are also profound. They need to be continued quickly. Thank you to the National Association for the evaluation of my work so far and for my nomination as Minister. I thank the Prime Minister for his confidence in this difficult time. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U37	Thank you. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U38	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Sir, Dear colleagues, I have to say, improvisation and uncertainty 13. There is much more in the family and in this government today than otherwise. And the processes that are currently taking place in Parliament reflect the reality of the situation in the Cabinet. The elections come, the coalition has exhausted itself, so there is no clarity in society about what is going on. And that shouldn't be the case. All government ministers need to understand that poverty is real in Latvia and that Latvia is the third poorest country in the European Union with huge income inequality. I know that we all want not so much to see our country and that every citizen of our country, not only ministers and Members, wants to live with stable income, confidence in the future. Just live so that we do not have to deal with injustice every day. And that is why I want to add creatively to the candidate's economic programme, which I have met carefully. First of all. As regards the most important work to be done by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the near future, I think that the Minister's duty - together with the Ministry of Finance - is to assess the contribution of public funds, how correct and useful it is being done (including in state capital companies). Second round. There must be a clear action plan for economic recovery and concrete solutions for how the Ministry will help entrepreneurs and society as a whole. And, of course, I call for all the necessary changes to be made in close cooperation with business and industry. Other ministers do not always or gladly. And so entrepreneurs often feel excluded. Dear colleagues, To vote in favour means to take responsibility for the candidate. Our group cannot take responsibility for the ministers of this government, but... At the same time, I can assure you that we will support national and draft laws that address various socio-economic problems and will be prepared by the Ministry of Economics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U39	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U40	Dear colleagues, Here too, I would like to say... and agree with the previous speaker that the strangeness here is quite obvious... on a large scale. I understand very well why we had to support... and why was there a question about the previous ministers... Mr. Eclon. Why, though, do we need to talk today about Mrs. Indrickson? I think many had a question why it is. And, of course, in this situation, at least I felt a very strange position of the head of government. The first comment. Why has the Head of Government chosen to ask the Minister for the Economy for Demission? The first response is because the Minister is new. New Minister. Young or how... New, but... Because it's new. Colleagues! I think that for every young politician it shows their "potential" for growth: if you work well, then you are likely to get rid of you first (Interface: Yes!) ), the better it is to work with old ones who have been together for decades. I do not understand this approach. I would like to hear more from the Prime Minister - namely, why; what he has not done; what are the reasons for this; how the Prime Minister evaluates. The National Association has three ministers in the government... I would have liked to see a broader assessment of the Prime Minister, not such a childish approach: because the minister is young... We have also heard further arguments about the fact that the Minister has listened too much to the opinion of the sector and has defended the sector. What else should the Minister do? We want the industry to come here, to the Saeima House, or to the government building? It can also lead to such a situation, but in my view it is only welcome - listen. And, I believe, it is welcome that Mrs Indricksones has also said from this troupe today that she will continue to work with the industry. Rather, the Head of Government should look at his ministers and encourage them to work more with the sectors, on the contrary, because not all ministers are doing so. We have a number of ministers who have turned their backs on the sectors under their responsibility, on the non-governmental organisations with which they meet only once - just because they have to meet. Because someone has told them, and because it's a good tone to meet them. But - essentially to defend those for whom they stand, those in their area of responsibility - that is what I would expect from the members of the government when they work for them. Colleagues! If we look at the new challenges of the Minister for Economic Affairs as a whole, I think nothing has changed - and the new minister will also have one of the main challenges. Energy: Price shock, which is for our citizens today. It is continuing to progress, and in the autumn it will be even more intense, both in terms of food prices, fuel prices and heat prices. Very many - very many! - cost matters will be on the table for the Minister. The Minister must have a vision. And here I would like to refer to the words of one of the most influential coalition politicians in my opinion (I would not call them). He's in the public space... on what is happening in the coalition. Why are we so indecisions on our energy issues? For example, where will we get gas? Obviously, we will need some energy sources. I think it's strange that... In public space, it already sounds like why we are not actively involved in the common liquefied gas terminals between Lithuania and Estonia, there is only one reason why one of the coalition's partners is actively lobbying one gas terminal in Skulte. There is no doubt now, colleagues - we have spoken a lot from this troubling about which political power it is. But, in my opinion, the energy issue should stand a little above such cheap, poor lobbyists. I hope that the new minister will stand above these economic interests and really think national, will be actively involved in various projects, including cross-border projects, and will deal with these energy issues together with the rest of the Baltic States. It must not be that one political power of the government will in all its forms, block, stop negotiations with Estonia, Finland and Lithuania. Winter will come, and winter preparations are needed now. All available resources must now be weighed up. I think Mrs Indicice will have noticed here our debate on the issue of peat. All major business organisations are already actively talking about the use of peat in energy. If this is not done by the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development, then, in my view, the Minister for Economics should take over this initiative and start to speak actively about it. We cannot wait for someone to take these decisions for us. Don't take it. I see very well how Poland is fighting and defending its interests, and the European Commission is making positive decisions regarding its own local resources. We, too, have to do so, and someone has to take responsibility for it. It could be a minister for the economy. If we've talked a lot about biofuel emissions from this same platform, too... Colleagues, I call on you not to relax and yet to take this decision. There were public statements yet, but no decision has yet been made in the government. We have also made a bill from this troupe six times until this decision was taken at least publicly... It's gonna be done here. But I call on the government not to delay this decision, otherwise we will see once again that entrepreneurs have already bought the next cargo, and then we already have this bio-acceptance... We may be able to talk about its abolition next year. The decision in the government must be made more quickly. On tax policy. Here, too, I expect from the Ministry of Economics... and which is even better placed than the National Association to take responsibility in this respect for changes in tax policy already today. Both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economics are under one political power... and why we could not now listen to any initiatives that should undoubtedly come. We hear: the Ministry of Agriculture talks about reduced VAT rates for certain foods from time to time. We have also heard in the past various initiatives from the Minister for Economic Affairs on reduced VAT rates for sectors affected by the crisis. Colleagues, I think it's enough to talk. There must also be a serious debate on these issues in Parliament. It is necessary to begin by offering solutions. The government has adopted the budget. The government has adopted the budget in November. It was confirmed by the Saeima in November... fully with other indicators of economic development, fully with other indicators of inflation. That was already a dramatic situation. We warned about this already at the time, in November, here, from this troupe, that the forecasts for the implementation of this budget are unlikely to be met and that the challenges, these increases in prices, will be unbearable for many groups of the population. We are seeing that this situation has become even more dramatic at the moment. And I really expect that at least the new minister, if we have the opportunity to debate him today, will come with initiatives to review the budget. I do not hope or expect the Minister of Finance or the Head of Government to do so. I do not see any kind of initiative from their side on this issue, but you will agree that Lithuania has revised its budget. We live as if nothing had changed. One of my colleagues made a previous point: 24 February has changed a lot. There have also been a lot of changes in Latvia since 24 February. Mrs Indricksone also said from this troupe: yes, there will have to be a different view of politics and much to do differently. Of course, but policies as such need to be changed, the public budget needs to be revised. And I expect that the Minister of Economics, together with the Minister of Agriculture, will not only spread the press releases that the tax rate of one or the other must be reduced, but will actually come with such proposals. Such proposals will actually come from the government or the Saeima. We will support them. At this point, my fellow Member, Mrs. Minister... the potential Minister would say that in these years, since we have been working in Parliament, many people have an opinion... and I also have a point of view. And I'm not going to be ashamed of it. I think that Mrs. Indricksone will be able to continue his work. As far as I have been working with Mrs Indricksone, I can unequivocally say that whatever, but in regional matters, she is clearly expert in municipal matters, she understands clothes. I think that this knowledge will help her to continue in her position of minister. For our part, Mrs Indicice will support us today by giving her a mandate of trust from the opposition, too, and we will be open to legislative initiatives, dialogue with you in your further work, because the challenge in the Ministry of Economic Affairs is not lacking, which you have already noted in your speech today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U41	Thank you, colleagues. Time to break. Ladies and gentlemen, we plan a break from 10.30 a.m. to 11.00 a.m., next one from 12.30 a.m. to 14.00 a.m.. So the long break is from 12.30 a.m. to 14.00 a.m. A number of commission meetings are held during that time. Please call me! Please register the Members! The name of the Member, Igor Pimenov, for his statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U42	Hello, Members! A meeting of the Group of Members with the Greek Parliaments will be launched immediately in the Yellow Hall. It is necessary to elect the Head of the Group. I will name the group members, and they are: Arvils Asheraden, Dagmars Beitnere–Le Galla, Jānis Cielēns, Aivars Geidāns, Nikolai Kabanov, Andrejs Klementyev, Janīna Kursīte, Romanas Naudiņš, Arthur Rubiks, Lubova Švecova and Jānis Vucāns. Please take part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U43	Thank you. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U44	Dear members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) Honourable members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Given that we had a debate and we did not submit the draft law that we planned to see at 10.35 at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) is moving to a later date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U45	Thank you. Name to Inese... There's no Inese? Name Andrejs Klementyev for communication of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U46	High honourable Members! Not registered: Uldis Augulis... I don't see, Raimonds Bergmanis (Dep. R. Bergmanis: “Ir!” )... is, thank you, I see, Aldis Blumbergs, Jānis Butāns... I saw Ilmar Duritis... I saw Alexander Kirstein... I don't see, Armands Krazzy, Roman Money... No, Edmund Teirumnieks... No, Inese Voika... No, Jānis Vucāns and Gatis Zamur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U47	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U48	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber, we will continue the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft decision on the expression of trust to Minister for Economics Ilze Indricsone. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Colleagues, colleagues, we are continuing the debate. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U49	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, Three months have passed since the beginning of the war, and over these three months it has proved that it has been enough time to move from the belief of many people that Kyiv will immediately fall in three days, to the growing conviction that Ukraine can win this war and that it will also win this war. But what has been done in the field of energy during these three months? The amount of gas in Inčukalns gas storage is not sufficient for the next heating seasons. We have no doubt whether we will be able to supply gas via the Klaipeda terminal. We have no real decisions, no real decisions are made regarding participation in the construction of the Palestinian LNG terminal. No real decisions were taken regarding the construction of its own liquefied gas terminal. To compare, colleagues, over these three months, the Bulgarian Government has concluded a long-term supply agreement for LNG supplies to the US. We do not have any such agreements. For comparison too - Germany in these three months... The German Government has already adopted new legislation allowing Germany to set up almost four LNG terminals within nine to ten months. All this raises the question: what has the government actually done to withdraw from Russian gas? Was everything there just that conceptual talk? And this, in my opinion, is, well, an absolute job number one for the new Minister for Economics... I think it was the last three months that I had to do. The next big challenge, colleagues, is that... I think it is clear that it is a matter of time that sometime this year the transit model that has been our economies for a long time... Well, there is no longer a backbone, but yet a major sector, will cease to exist; that if Russia and Belarus are hard, then the transit model as such will cease to exist. This means that many thousands of people who are currently employed by rail will lose their jobs in ports, related companies. What are they gonna do? Where will they work? What will the State do to provide them with employment in other sectors of the economy? It was also necessary to work on these issues two or three months ago. That time will come when it will happen, and it will be the Ministry of Economics... the task and political responsibility of the future Minister for the Economy: are we sufficiently prepared for these events. Last but not least, in these four years, our lag from Lithuania has only increased, our lag from Estonia has at least remained the same. It is clear to me that these are the remaining four-five months before the elections... four months before the elections... is not in any way sufficient time to change something dramatically in this direction, but yet. It remains as perhaps the main challenge of any economic minister: how to reduce the gap from our neighbours. So in all these works... Mostly... and in many others, I wish the new Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilze Indricson. Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U50	Thank you. The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U51	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. This item on the agenda is currently out of place and should not have been at all. We have written in the Constitution that discrimination based on age, gender and other characteristics is unacceptable, while the Prime Minister, when talking about why he dismissed the Minister of Economics Janis Vitenbergs, has said that, here he is the youngest. The latest in works, the youngest at age or no matter how, but by calling this sign “the younger”. I think we're on a very slippery road here. If someone is dismissed, then I think it should be thought of what success or failure he has been in his post, rather than having this sign as “the younger”. That is first. Secondly. The blackmail. Well, what kind of blackmail has come from the National Alliance if there have really been mistakes in the work of the Minister for the Interior on 9 and 10 May? And the previous speakers have already spoken about the fact that 9 and 10 May is the moment when the Minister of the Interior is located on the territory of Latvia, because it is possible that very important security issues will have to be dealt with promptly. The Prime Minister takes an asymmetric move and says that, here I will release one of the Ministers of the National Union, and that youth is a sign of qualification. Tell me, what is the potential in the future for younger ministers to work in government? We will now approve, most likely, two new ministers, and they will be younger. If there is any reflection in the coalition, what will it be? So they will be the next ones who will be released? Colleagues, this, in my opinion, is totally unacceptable and wrong to move in this way. The Prime Minister is the one who has talked a lot to us about high moral standards, but he does not really respect them. If we look at the procedure itself, there is no doubt that we need to think about the work that is necessary for our economy, our energy security. The Ministry of Economics is dealing with energy issues - they will be very topical for us, winter comes. Do we have enough energy to ensure the supply of heat, the production of electricity from gas? This is a very topical issue, and perhaps we have not yet received any answers in reality. Several heating companies have warned that this situation could lead to two to three times the cost of bills for citizens. Where is the Prime Minister talking about these topics? At the moment, the Prime Minister is no longer even in the Chamber and has gone away somewhere, despite the fact that these are the same key issues. At the moment when Maria Golubeva was directed to the position of minister (and Jānis Vitenbergs also), the Prime Minister came and praised these people, telling them how good the specialists are, and I do not want to look at whether it was true or not. , but certainly after that, with an equally light hand, he said goodbye to these two ministers at the moment when he had to throw his blame on someone else. In my opinion, this is also not a model of a team leader's worthy behaviour. The Prime Minister is the head of the team, who draw up the agenda in the Cabinet, even more so - he is the head of the coalition. The head of the coalition could certainly be the one who leads all the issues, takes responsibility, but in this case the Prime Minister writes resolutions and dries under the tank members of his team. ( Internouncing call.) If we look at the list of those who would - on the contrary - have to be released, then we - on the contrary - should listen to the business organisations that say that cooperation with the previous Minister for Economic Affairs has been very good. Yes, has the Minister been a lobbyer of the interests of these organisations? But why not? Why not listen to business organisations and come with an offer to the Cabinet? What's wrong with that? ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) On the contrary, the Minister has done his job in this case. Yes, if we are talking about the Covid crisis, then obviously the Ministry of Health has a completely opposite view than the Minister of Economics, but it is normal that a compromise is found within the government. If we look at the assessment of the work of the ministers of the business organisation, then the Prime Minister should first release the Minister of Finance Jānis Reirs. He's valued the worst - with the mark 3 or 2, now it doesn't matter anymore, but a failure mark. The other thing. When we talk about tax policy, business organisations come and say, "We have the highest taxes on labour right in the low wages." The finance minister should have been coming and saying, "Behold, we have a new offer, we want to offer a competitive tax policy at least in the Baltic region." Is that what happened, colleagues? None of this has happened. Consequently, the list of persons to be dismissed is, in principle, slightly incorrect. This issue should have started completely with another minister. I therefore think that we have not really touched on the most important issues. And the main question: where are we in an economic breakthrough? If we look at the amount of direct investment compared to the Baltic States, then unfortunately we are lagging behind not by one or two percent, but by 20 percent. If we are talking about the shadow economy - unfortunately, it is not a fall, but an interest box. If we are talking about the number of people at risk of poverty - it is also not a fall, but a ladder. So, actually, success in the context of government... Not really married. Therefore, if we are talking about precisely this whole set of aspects, then I think it is completely unreasonable at this point to change the Minister. Thus, of course, in the context of energy and energy security issues, the Prime Minister has assumed, since his dismissal, direct, personal responsibility for the acts or omissions that will result from all this. The issue of the construction of gas terminals was mentioned. In my opinion, this is not a political issue at all, but a question for the system operator. It is clear what the approximate gas consumption in one, other, third Baltic country is. We understand very well that, at present, the gas market is not local but regional. As a result, all three system operators can sit down at the table, perhaps also inviting the Finnish system operator and now - since the end of May - the Polish system operator to calculate how much capacity is needed and agree on the construction of a common terminal, where this could happen faster, so that this problem can be solved technically and not politically. Let us not forget how the construction of a common nuclear power plant in the Baltic States went. Let us not forget how the construction of the LNG terminal in the Baltic States was done. At that time Lithuanians made a national decision to build a LNG terminal at their own disposal. What else is very important? We have adopted the National Climate and Energy Plan, which provides enough ambitious targets, including moving away from fossil fuels. In this case, too, from gas. As a result, gas consumption will also decrease in a predictable way. If gas consumption falls forecastably, do we really need to build every corner of the LNG terminal? Once again, therefore, my fellow Members, I call for the debate on LNG terminals not to be raised at such a high political level, but to leave it to the system operator... within the framework and allow technical specialists to calculate what is necessary and where it can be done more quickly and how to ensure sufficient capacity in the Baltic region. Energy security issues, to be honest, are now on the cards and, in my opinion, the Prime Minister has not acted competently to release the Minister for Economic Affairs during the race. That is a completely wrong direction. So that the government's joint work will certainly be evaluated. There are many characteristics that are, unfortunately, worse for us than for our neighbours. Let us not forget that economic development is, of course, taking place all the time, but there is the question of how we look in the Baltic context and whether we are showing a breakthrough, or on the contrary - we are stagnating. I, of course, wish our economy growth, but many of the accents are not made right. If we also look at the development of new businesses, at the attraction of investments, it is vital that we develop high-value added-value enterprises in Latvia, including perhaps we could talk about the economic breakthrough and sometime begin to count not only one unicorn that we have created in Latvia, at least with Latvian capital and participation of Latvian citizens, but ten. The Estonians have achieved sufficiently good indicators and a sufficiently large breakthrough. Why have we not reached that point? This is because there is not enough investment in the development of start-ups, and perhaps even more money could be invested in the start-ups, because the situation with the development of companies - particularly the start-ups - is very important at a time when relatively small money is being invested, it is very likely that a new racer will also create this unification. Returning to our competitiveness once again. The investor really looks at this issue regionally, and at the moment... By placing the main indicators on paper itself, the main expenditure itself, we have to ask ourselves: if Latvia looks competitive on the Baltic background in all indicators, whether one of them is perhaps not competitive, but in others it could be predicted that there will be one. And then we are “random” seeing that there are many advantages in Lithuania and Estonia. Then why should entrepreneurs choose their own factory or company to develop in Latvia? And one of the indicators is labour taxes. If we look at the government declaration, then this issue has been topical in the context of the assessment of tax policy, but it has never been realised. Business organisations always say, with different figures, that there are enough issues that need to be addressed, including changes in tax policy, but that, unfortunately, has not happened. And this is one of the reasons why we see that the State Revenue Service has been forced to be more aggressive to collect money accordingly and to get the Treasury to run. That is exactly why. That is why I think the decision that has been made at the moment is completely wrong. This issue on the agenda would not have been relevant at all if the Head of Government had done the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U52	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U53	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Prime Minister! Dear colleagues, On the whole process, which is linked to the hands of the ministers for the economy, we have heard a lot and a lot of people from the government, as well as read. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... and had read in the media. But if we're talking specifically...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U54	One moment, Mr. Tatar, one minute. Colleagues, I call for the negotiations to be interrupted, there is no speaker in the floor. I can't even hear it. Please, quiet in the room!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U55	If we are talking about this minister's hand in hand, about change, then the new minister - when it comes to the area of home affairs - gets the legacy of the previous minister and, in the area of economics, gets the shared responsibility... Mrs Indricksones is also, to a certain extent, jointly responsible. Despite the fact that in the economy, the responsible organisations of the economic sectors literally shout for a lasting lack of synergy between the sectors and the Cabinet of Ministers, especially the heads of government... Despite the support mechanisms already adopted in the past... There is a certain rebound in our economy now, which will be reflected in the 2022 balance sheet for many, many entrepreneurs in many sectors, despite the fact that there is zero maturity for energy shocks... we could have been much more prepared for this energy crisis. The first signals have already come. We saw Lithuania and Estonia prepare; we expected something. Yes, these are also certain external shocks, but our readiness could have been much higher. Despite the fact that we do not currently compete with Scandinavian countries in economic development, economic development, we see Estonia and Lithuania now being stable in economic progress in many sectors ahead of us. Despite these mistakes, I nevertheless express my hope for Mrs Indricksone that her starting position is better than her predecessor, Wittenberg. I am sure that the closeness of the elections will make many people, especially government representatives, meet and understand what the eve of the economic crisis we are actually on. We see this Iron Curtain closing... with our eastern border, we need to understand that this economic transition is very, very fundamental right now. Many sectors that have been stable in Latvia for several decades are now completely closed. How will we change, how will we attract new investments, new jobs, how will we achieve that already existing entrepreneurs, in particular exporting people, do not move their base places from Latvia to other countries? We see this tax policy and, in particular, governments' attitude towards investment elsewhere. This is very, very important to us. Our external debt - we know how great it is. Recordiel! This external debt will have to be repaid. At the same time, we must be aware that very many have now abandoned warm water, especially in border cities, because they are unable to pay for energy. Energy prices are cosmically high. The new Minister for Economic Affairs faces huge challenges and, despite the short time being, I really hope for understanding and working together in the Cabinet, realising that economic stability is one of the pillars of comprehensive protection of the country. It is very, very important for us to be able to pay our seniors, educators, young families... for the very many needs that we face, especially in times of crisis... in order for us to be able to help those most in need. That is why my vote on Mrs Indricksone is a certain advance. I really hope for logical, intelligible cooperation, especially on this eve of the crisis, knowing that this time is also a pre-election time at the same time. Good luck!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U56	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U57	Good afternoon, colleagues! Here too, when it comes to the candidacy of Ilze Indicice for the post of Minister for Economic Affairs, I must say that it is very good that the National Association has succeeded in bringing forward so quickly a realistic candidate for this post. Given that Mrs Indicice has played an active part in the meetings of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I think it will be quite easy to get on the running train, which could be called, let us say, the development of economic policy in the Ministry of Economics. I would also like to draw the attention of the future Minister and the Saeima to the current problems. I think it is no longer a secret that the next heating season in Latvia will be very heavy. Already today, many consumers, including gas consumers, have received a calculation for the next period from “Latvijas Gas”, which is several times higher than the amount they paid for gas in the previous period. This leads many to think about how to keep on living at all. When it comes to the policy that has been pursued since independence was regained, it is difficult to find politicians who would indeed have taken the necessary steps to strengthen and ensure energy independence from Russia. It is quite obvious that, at present, it is precisely the issue of energy independence and the need to move rapidly towards it that is an essential factor in the decision-making that will have to be taken... which have already been adopted and which will still have to be adopted. I think there is no doubt that the Minister for Economics and the Ministry must support as much as possible all efforts to strengthen energy independence, including not only gas needles... independence from Russia in terms of gas, but also in terms of electricity supply. In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have addressed this issue, and we know very well that we are still on the common grid with Russia, most likely until 2025, even though the technical trade in electricity on the stock exchange is no longer taking place... since 1 May, which is related to simple settlement problems. But as far as the so-called balancing issues of electricity are concerned, there is still work to be done. But, of course, progress is taking place. The second case concerns gas infrastructure. I think it is only welcome that the national capital company VIRŠI-A has also been involved in the project of the Skulte terminal, where apparently all the necessary calculations have been made and so on. But I have a question: why is there such a great desire to invest Latvian taxpayers' money in LNG infrastructures of other countries? I'm glad we have a Prime Minister who understands these things, and it's already... happens between the Baltic States... At the level of the Prime Ministers, discussions have obviously taken place on how to ensure the supply of natural gas, using, for example, the Klaipeda terminal and also Paldicskis, which still has to be said at the moment of its creation. (And also there go pretty... (As by strain.) And that is good, but in any case we have to think about the energy independence of our country, including independence from our neighbours, because if someone thinks that Lithuania is better off in Latvia than in Lithuania - it is bitterly wrong, it is bitterly wrong. It is good that we have strategic resources such as Incukalns, which is not only necessary for the Baltic States. At least we have the subject of negotiations. Another major problem faced by entrepreneurs, which we have also seen in the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, is the challenges facing the construction sector in the new circumstances. So, to some extent, the lack of labour in the construction sector, which is linked to the return of workers to their home country, is also a factor in the price of construction materials. Of course, the market will sort itself out over time, the question is: what will be the market prices for certain building materials. In this case, there was a need for a common understanding of how to deal with construction contracts, especially those which are objectively necessary... which need to be completed, constructed and cannot be postponed. To have a common understanding of what decisions to take with regard to contracts which are already in force - whether it is indexation, whether it is a revision of a position, or whether it is a termination of a contract. That understanding must be uniform. It could not be said that, at present, in all sectors, for construction or for all contractors or project managers, there would be a total common understanding of what should be done in the case of each specific contract. We have also heard this at the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Various examples were mentioned, which may also take place after the sitting, but it was not that everyone understood those things in the same way. Of course, we must understand that construction will become more expensive globally, but that is why we cannot stop all projects in the country already. The foreign investment issue, which I wanted to touch on, too. Of course, we have... Investment in Latvia is very good, we have always wanted it, and no politician will probably say, "No, we don't need investment!" But unfortunately there are investors who can't really invest in any place in Latvia. And often, thanks to the municipalities... I am not talking here about energy projects, where municipalities are even losing out in court on their illegal decisions. But there are cases like this. So we cannot say that everything is fine. And what has also been said by the previous speakers - that we are already falling behind even Lithuania - that is true. The question is: what has been done for the last 10 years since the previous economic crisis? And by the way, who was then the Minister for Economics? And that's it. But let it remain, as you say, a pre-election for the debate. More. My wish would be: although the National Association sees itself as an ultraconservative, essentially extreme force in this respect, modern things must also be considered. For example, for start-ups. It is difficult to understand why new business issues need to be brought forward, and the Saeima should already use the proposals to adopt the budget. Why can't this be encouraged already in the general budget... from the Ministry of Economics? I do not understand this, because it is clear that these are companies that potentially generate higher added value. And if we want to break the so-called middle income trap, then that is what we need. However, this has not been the case so far. Of course, it has to be seen that the previous minister had focused on this issue, but, of course... Mr. Wittenberg didn't make it so good... Especially after... We should have been in the Saeima looking at whether this proposal on start-ups is welcome or not. And in the end, everyone supported it because they realized that a real fan had happened. Another thing is that we need to encourage the flow of Western investments in free port areas, because we have ports that have historically... even in the transit sector... Well, because of such historical links, there's a view towards the East. Of course it will end. That view must be directed towards the West. And that is why we need investments from the West in ports. And all the companies that are already in existence... if someone has not yet moved his market from East to West, then this issue must be addressed and this shift should be helped. And just recently... We still had the previous crisis - the Covid crisis - and in that context we started to talk about a reconstruction fund in Europe, to bring several billions that could potentially be raised into the Latvian economy. But now we can see that perhaps all the projects that were submitted for this fund at that time - to this renovation fund... It may be that they are not the most effective for Latvia at this time. One thing that still needs to be done is therefore to seriously reassess whether a large part of the renovation fund should not be devoted to the promotion of energy projects by the state, whether it is going through some state-owned companies or so on, but - promoting both energy independence and, of course, simply also to travel the share of renewable energy in our energy portfolio. And, of course, also by providing base capacity for electricity generation in any way. Therefore, yes, perhaps once again, the debate on the renovation fund should be opened up; this has already happened once, but I think it would be a good discussion right now. The Conservatives will support the candidacy of the Indicice as Minister for Economic Affairs. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U58	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U59	I would call it karma because its karma has affected two people today - Janis Vitenbergs and Aivars Geidans. How beautiful a year ago this scheme, let us say, was planned in Sigulda - that Jānis Vitenbergs would continue to be the Minister of Economics and a broken “KPV LV” party... Aivars Geidans - How active a family defender! And today he's gone! It's a pot (Interface.) The pressure was that... not family values were, however, the most important. However, if we comment on these processes, which we are talking about - also from the troupe - both Mrs Indricksone and the others... I think the people of Rezekne are still unclear how to expect them this autumn. We see this information that active people are currently buying... in the same Rezekne... boilers because of the warm water for daily use in the summer... It's very expensive right now. In the same region of Jelgava... Today there was an article... was informed that EUR 11 per cubic metre is being paid. And none of those present, who have climbed up, are still able to answer what to expect in the autumn and what measures are intended to prevent, say, this crisis. Just recently, a few weeks ago, Lithuania had already accepted additional changes to the budget, devoting EUR 1.5 billion to overcoming this crisis. Like in the Czech Republic... Recently, a few days ago, representatives of the Czech Republic visited here, who informed them that their plans were also active; they are already working on providing additional funding for disadvantaged people and also on tax changes in the face of this energy crisis. Now... It is almost June, but we still do not hear what measures will be implemented in Latvia. Since last year, we have been actively proposing a reduction in value added tax, but where are their ears of hearing? It's still not heard! The question is: what must happen in order for a country, the state of Latvia, to be able to move effectively and quickly towards overcoming this crisis? And did it not have to be done more directly by the Ministry of Economics? We have seen this information publicly and also the articles and press releases coming from the former Minister for Economic Affairs - that we must take an example from Poland. How successful Poland is in overcoming this situation! This is about reducing VAT both on food, electricity and fuel. Lithuania was also able to introduce zero-interest VAT. But Latvia has still not done any of this. These are clear, empty promises that have been made all these months. And we also need to talk about food. This famous Sigulda deal... The Ministry of Agriculture concluded - as if jointly with the Ministry of Economics - a memorandum on joint cooperation. What is the contribution of people? What has happened this year? We can see that food prices are rising rapidly. Fertilisers are also needed for farmers to buy. Prices are already doubling. What is this contribution from this memorandum of cooperation? I'll say, absolutely nothing. For my part, I, too, am not going to support Mrs Indricksone, because she has worked with Mr Wittenberg. I have had the opportunity to address and invite Mrs Indricsone to report actively to the Commission about events in the Ministry of Economics, but she has not shown her desire and interest in telling them about them. There have always been reservations. Therefore, honourable viewers and listeners, you must certainly ask your Members, on whom you will want to see what their plan is, how they are going out of this economic crisis. With empty promises and another entrance to this platform, by reading the prepared text from a page? It is not worthy of the next Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U60	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U61	I understand that the STECF is going to support Mrs Indicice's candidacy as Minister for Economic Affairs. In this context, I also understand why there is a certain division in this flank, because obviously there is no longer an option - it is necessary to read the Independent Morning Newspaper from the mornings. ‘ Independent Morning newspaper’s politician Indricsone says... ZZS, that's especially for you! ( Internouncing call.) I think that you are told in that group's statute that you should read the NRAs in the morning. Now I'll read it to you. Thus, Indricsone stressed that, at the same time, the feeling that the country would not pay all is to be maintained, because everyone has to take care of their energy efficiency and cost reductions. In particular, the next Minister for Economics talks about the fact that you, dear people, dear Latvian society, will have to pay for heat and electricity yourself and the Ministry of Economics will not come to you with the help of all National Associations. It is written by the NRA, and to my surprise, the ZZS does not read it in this compulsory reading medium! ( Internouncing call.) Yesterday, by the way, I was in Rezekne. Rēzekne 40 percent... from the city center... does not receive hot water. Do not get hot water because there are problems with heating. The remaining 60 percent receive hot water, because these 60 percent of the city are heated with chips. Our future Minister for Economics should not be talking about the fact that he cannot help people, but rather help people, and he should go on the table and say that, in these circumstances, exports of chips to Sweden, Norway and other countries should be prohibited. It should not be a situation that Latvia, which has sufficient resources to heat all Latvia and, in fact, to provide people, all people of Latvia, essential help in this very harsh, very expensive winter that is approaching... In particular, the Minister for Economics should talk about the fact that with his slice we can heat the whole of Latvia and not - take it to Sweden! There, in Sweden, they heat their factories from our chips and make furniture, particleboards, which we buy here at Ikea store. Why could we not produce them in Latvia? That's one thing. The other thing about electricity and energy efficiency in Latvia. As I read in the same NRAs, the company “High voltage grid” declares that in Latvia it produces electricity more than it consumes. And then it's a big question - why do we have the most expensive electricity in the region if we produce more electricity in Latvia than we consume in Latvia? And the answer is very simple: because we sell our own electricity cheaply through some intermediaries, some families that earn it (as with a slice) and then buy it at a price. Another interesting issue that Mrs Indicice should be talking about from the Saeima. If our greatest wealth is forests, our green gold, then why do we only earn more than ten million of profits from forests? And how much of this profit is made by the export of chips? I will answer you, most of them. In fact, they are being exported for free and there is no benefit for the Latvian state. This is a question that should be discussed by the next Minister for Economic Affairs. However, as the next Minister for Economics - from the National Alliance! - does not care about Latvians living in Latvia, and says - every Latvian will obviously have to pull his belt (which, by the way, is read in the NRA interview, Mr. Valaiņš and Mr. Tatars!) , today there is no reason to vote in favour of the relevant post. We can even go further - we can talk about poverty. This morning, when you go to the center... I was sent by the representatives of our society... From the center, from the Cathedral, towards the Cabinet of Ministers... There, in the park, covered with a blanket, sleep not refugees from Ukraine, but the people of Latvia - not bomies, but people who are laid out of the house. And why are they there? Because there is poverty in Latvia. One of the most important things to combat poverty is the availability of food in shops - that food is available. This is about reducing VAT. What should the National Union and, as the case may be, the Ministers for Economic Affairs rise and fall, but this is not the case. Cheaper food - it is not only a chance to eat; it is also a health issue: the healthier a person eats, the less he is sick; the less he is sick, the less he has to spend his money on health care. All of these circumstances are interrelated and subordinate to each other. Question three: Today, here in this building on Jēka Street, we will talk about holidays for children, and this will also be rejected by the National Association, as has always been rejected. Free holiday - in a situation where people no longer have the opportunity to pull the burden... And it happens at a time when there's the biggest crisis when we fight, we fight... We say to people that they have to pull their belts, while our ministers from the National Association are building their houses - they are building during the period when the greatest cost of life in Latvia has ever been. How does that work? How is it possible for a nation to live in poverty, but the ministers of the National Alliance can be proud of this time of crisis? That is why we should vote 'no', because today, Mrs Indrickson has had to talk about the issues that I am talking about here. It is for her - as a defender of the Latvian people! - not only must be rushed with prisms, not only must be with flags, but it is important to talk about the fact that the Latvian people are at risk of poverty. Poverty is threatening this autumn and this winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U62	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U63	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! Prime Minister! Ministers! Future Ministers! I will reveal one secret which, to my mind, is a secret to most of society, at least to those who enjoy a certain level of income. And this secret is that this year's end of the heating season has started... Last night. And everything we've been talking about is two days late. Why did I say that? I made two visits - to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Wittenberg, and to Prime Minister Kariņš - in which I wanted to inform both ministers and Prime Minister about the possibility of a little bit, but with the help of entrepreneurs, of mitigating this crisis in energy supplies... and, in particular, the supply of heat in gas-fired municipalities. The hats are coming to Mr. Wittenberg! He accepted me and listened to the businessmen. The purpose of my visit was not to raise political capital, but to show the Ministry that there are entrepreneurs who think about the country (not about their own company!) and on the strategic direction for exiting from the crisis. We all talk a lot and wisely about how we get out of the crisis, but the reality is that we have not yet learned how to enter the crisis, because we have not entered the crisis. In other words, the moment of the crisis will be when we put all the processes down and start thinking about heat at the end of September. The problem now lies in a number of aspects. The first is what the previous speaker, Mr Gobzem, mentioned, was, like, a chip. If Latvia as a whole were to be rebuilt... heat produced from a slice, then there's a bad message - the chips would miss us by about 30 percent. And it would be missing, not because our forests have no chips, but because there are no technical possibilities to prepare it. And I know that as a professional in this field. I know what the technical capacities are and what the entrepreneurs who are dealing with the fragmentation services say. The next problem is construction has stopped at the moment. Recent data show that timber industry has stopped contracts and that timber is no longer exported to Great Britain in stock warehouses. However strangely, ships with timber from Norway, from Scandinavia, arrive in Latvian ports! And already there are indications that log prices are falling. And the building industry, considered to be a perspective, is currently stunning. Here again there are some good news and some bad news. It is good that the government and the Saeima will not have to think about attracting labour to the economy, because businesses will simply stop. The bad news is that the social budget will get the next blow because of rising unemployment, closing construction companies and everything else. The only thing that can save us is the resolution of the crisis and the end of war in Ukraine as soon as possible, which would allow the construction industry to recover again and to get money to producers, builders, restoring the Ukrainian state, thus also restoring the economy and revitalising the economy. I have two feelings right now. I understand Mrs Indricksone's pure humanity, and I have a certain collegial feeling, because we have both been members of local governments, we know what it means when people are faced with difficult decisions in their lives - when housing disappears, income disappears... when the municipal member is closest to the power who can listen to these questions and give some comfort or solution. In this case, I believe that the future Minister is facing great challenges. I have great doubts about the fact that, at the current rate of decision-making and also at the speed of the officials' activities, we will achieve some results until the beginning of the entrance... crisis. And that's September. Why do I say that? Because now there are statements from the Ministry of Economics, including from the Prime Minister, that we are all ready, we are all ready. Yes, in the paper version we are all ready, unfortunately not ready for either material or physical installation of the boilerhouses. We are not ready to solve the problem of gas charging at the moment. We are not prepared to take a decision on something that has already been decided by the government and that has been decided by the Saeima, in particular on the abolition of the OIC system. The documents are ready. Mr. Feldman's in the box. I gave a lamp, I guess the light was too weak, didn't find it, didn't draw... This means that we are already taking decisions too late to allow society to enter the crisis, to understand the challenges of the crisis and to exit it successfully. I hope that Mr Kariņš will also accept my invitation and invite businessmen to listen to their views on this possible solution to address the heat problems in the municipalities currently heating with gas. I hope he will invite if not me, then... I don't have a problem with moving entrepreneurs too... We have to do a lot of work now, we cannot wait for leave and then watch - maybe something will happen after leave. It won't be. There will be problems, there will be no heat. Or if the heat will be, it will be very expensive. Colleagues, I am now calling for really serious consideration to be given to what awaits us in the autumn and for decisions to be made much more quickly. I hope that the OIC question will also happen soon. I also urge the Cabinet of Ministers to examine this support, which was provided in spring with a reduction in the transmission and OIC costs of invoices, to extend this process to at least a new year, as it is necessary to allow the people to accumulate the funds at the moment of the crisis and when entering the crisis, so that society has the means to cover even part of the costs of invoices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U64	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U65	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is from Canada on Twitter to comment on the work of the Minister of the Interior. I have no reason not to believe the former Minister for the Interior that the Prime Minister did not even call his Minister for the Interior and did not ask him, did not understand the objective circumstances, her opinion on what was happening around the obelisk in Pardaugava. In fact, the Prime Minister, together on Twitter, expressed his distrust for the Minister and for the fact that the same criticism and concrete action were required by one other coalition partner, in this case the National Association... he decided to punish the National Association for what he had not yet done... punish someone else. Then the minister returns to Latvia and begins something called political logic - he will manage the process by adding sleeves: bring, please, one of his three ministers - as a pioneer... I'm here on the table. It is logical that the National Association is not humiliating, nor is it going to carry any sacrificer. Then the Prime Minister himself chooses three areas: agriculture, the economy and culture. Which in this crisis situation, the energy crisis, could be the most sacrificed, the least important country? Of the three, of course, there is no doubt - the economy. This is not the attitude of the National Association; it is the attitude of the State! In this way, the Prime Minister represents how you see processes in a country where you have economic growth. Nothing more than your own attitude. Even more - at a time when business organisations are not really defending Janis Vitenbergs specifically, but loudly object to such an example of political culture, if it can be called, you are going further, you come up with a new argument – Jānis Vitenbergs has been too lobbying entrepreneurs in Latvia. I will not be going to discuss in detail whether John Wittenberg has been too lobbying or not. John Witenberg has tried to prevent the death of some industries. Is that what we call lobbying? I'm sorry, it seems just funny to me. But there are some good things. First thing. With this attempt to turn the ship, Prime Minister, you have shown exactly who you are for the whole business community - not just a person who is not looking... and to whom the economy is not essential, and neither again the naive Krišjānis Kariņš, but the cynical manipulator you are, Prime Minister. That is exactly what you have shown. But there's another very good thing in this. No one has so mobilised economically active people into the business environment to engage in a policy with one sole aim: never to allow Prime Ministers such as you, Krišjāni Karin. And we will see this very soon, the process has begun. Not only in the new parties, but also in the old parties, as you say, this process has begun, and that is one positive message. What else do I want to say at the end? After all this, I would like to congratulate the National Association on the choice of candidate for the post of Minister. I believe that this is the most appropriate choice, because the Minister, right now the Minister, has been in the Ministry of Economics system, has actually been a Deputy Minister (the parliamentary secretary in nature is there), there will not need to be a warm-up period. I do not know Ilzi Indricsoni very well, but I have heard in this Saeima the draft laws that she has submitted, as she has argued. There have been rational arguments there and - which is already rare in this house! - logical arguments. So that's all my support. I hope that Mrs Indricksones will continue what John started and will lead to the end of this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U66	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U67	Colleagues! From this troupe there was also a criticism in this debate about why we support or do not support Mrs Indricksone. In this respect, I would like to say to Mr Gobzems that yes, we really read what is written in the Independent, portal nra.lv. I see that today, too, the Prime Minister often spends more time not on the debate from this platform, but perhaps also reading the same portal, perhaps trying to find the same interview. But there is no difference in what is said in this interview, the main thing is what is now being said from this platform and, in my view, from the people's point of view, how the cost of this life is reduced (either by providing support to people in particular, or by supporting entrepreneurs in lowering tariffs)... It doesn't matter. The main thing at the end of the day will be the result, how much people will have to pay for heat, food, fuel from their income. Yes, we are giving a certain mandate from the opposition on our part in support of the Minister. We also made quite clear from this troupe what are the things that we expect from the Minister. In this respect, we do indeed give the Minister the assurance that we will support not only the candidacy of the Minister, but also the initiatives of the Minister if they are: to reduce value added tax, to reduce excise duty, to impose a cost ceiling. We really look forward to these initiatives. We are waiting for initiatives from the Minister, we are giving him this credit of trust, and we are waiting for these initiatives when they reach the Saeima, government, but we are also stressing that we want them very soon, because in October not only Members, positions or opposition will be judged, but society as a whole will be assessing how the Minister has gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U68	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U69	Yeah, two things. First thing. First thing. ZZS, as you share there, - Farmers and Greens, and who... Well, such a false opposition - as if you are criticising Karina, but in reality you are in favour of his government. Let us be honest. You support the government with a 'yes' vote, which will also be today. And this needs to be remembered by the voters in their wish that people who say they were in opposition actually support Karina's government. And the other thing. Janis Vitenberg, you were fired because this whole coalition (and it's quite honest) thought you were the weakest minister. These were the backstages, and so Karin fired you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U70	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U71	Good afternoon! I think it is possible only in Latvia. It seems to me that the only country in the world where the minister can be fired is because he is the youngest. We have not heard where the minister can still be fired because he is the youngest. I don't come here to defend John, because I have two thoughts about him, but I call that captain of the ship to look at his team a little bit. Half of your team you've overcame overboard, maybe it's time to jump over yourself? ( Intercretion: “O! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U72	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add, Mr Prime Minister, to this debate? No, no. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision on "On Trusting Minister for Economics Ilze Indricsone"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against - 24, refraining from - 1. (Applause) Congratulations to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ilzi Indricson! ( Internoint.) Thank you very much. Thank you. Colleagues! The agenda of the sitting will be examined further. Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. The National Security Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” to be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 1487/Lp13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. And the Members... Thus, the section entitled ‘Provisions of draft laws’ has already been included. All right, that's the Bureau's reports on the draft laws that have been tabled. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: “No. ” ) There are no objections. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the ban on the exhibition of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes and their dismantling in the territory of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Illustrations: “No. ” ; “Ir!” ) and. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science of the draft law “On the Prohibition of Exhibiting and Dismounting Objects of the Soviet and Nazi Regimes in the Territory of the Republic of Latvia”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” presented by the National Security Commission be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U73	Dear Members, Dear President, There's war. It is not directly here, but I think we are all united and we all understand - war affects us and affects us quite directly. And the information war is the kind of war that has been felt for a good time, visible, and it is very likely that we missed something. That is why we need to apply this right now. The NEPLP, which monitors all of our broadcasters and the electronic media programmes we see at this time, has worked quite successfully, well. At the same time, in order to know you - all this propaganda, which has, to some extent, poisoned the minds of many people, including those of our country... We saw this particularly brightly on 10 May... and that's also an impression. These prohibitions on their part are being challenged, they are programmes that say that there is no war in Ukraine, that the Ukrainians are guilty themselves and so on. Today we read that even the Azovas... the defenders will be tried and possibly exchanged afterwards. If you think so, people who have defended their country, who have fought for themselves... At the same time, they will be judged for defending their land. In this respect, so that we can be sure of further decisions, these changes that we propose to introduce are quite small, placing under conditions where individual programmes can be banned... in cases where (readu) ‘a State is undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty or independence of another State’. I think it is absolutely clear to what we are now referring to, so I call on you to pass on these words to the Commission, and the Commission is going on in an hour's time (Interface: “45 minutes!” )... at 45 minutes. And maybe today or next Thursday we will return with the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U74	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: “No. ” ) There are no objections. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking to consider the draft law prepared by the Commission “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading before the agenda item 26 of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Thus, we begin to examine the first reading of the draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia”. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U75	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, Indeed, the Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima asks for this draft law to be supported at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. And before we look at the draft laws at first reading, on behalf of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science, in accordance with Rule 92 of the Parliamentary Rule of Procedure, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U76	Please call me! We will vote to declare the draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U77	Thank you very much, colleagues, for supporting the urgency. We are starting to examine the draft law at first reading. The draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for the Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia” was created with the aim of preventing the suppression and threat of the values of Latvia as a democratic and national state, expressing a reprehensible position against both the illegal occupation power of the USSR and Nazi Germany, implementing policies and crimes, promoting public awareness of events in the territory of Latvia during the Second World War and the post-war period, thus strengthening the historical memory of the society, ensuring restoration of historical justice, preventing false, inaccurate and unbiased historical events and honouring the resistance of the Latvian people to both the Soviet and Nazi German occupation power. According to purpose, the law establishes that it is prohibited to exhibit monuments, memorial signs, memorial plates, memorial sites, architectural or artistic formations and other objects located in the territory of Latvia since 1940 and meeting at least one of the following criteria: praises the Soviet or Nazi German occupation power, praises totalitarianism, violence, military aggression, war and the ideology of war, includes symbols of Soviet power or Nazism. It should be noted at once that monuments, memorial signs, memorial plates, memorial sites, architectural or artistic formations, which are located in burial places of soldiers who have died in war, as well as places of the victims of Soviet or Nazi terror. What are the practices that the law sets out for the purpose? The law establishes that the existing monument to be dismantled in Riga, Uzvars Park, was given the title “The Soviet Army Warriors - The Soviet Latvian and Riga Liberation from German Fascist Invaders” during the period of occupation. The Cabinet of Ministers will determine other items to be dismantled throughout Latvia, drawing up regulations by 30 July of this year. The municipalities in whose administrative territory the object is located will be obliged to dismantle it in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers, because the Cabinet of Ministers will determine these objects. If the particular object is not yet identified and the Cabinet of Ministers has not yet determined it as to be dismantled, the decision on dismantling will be taken by the municipality in whose administrative territory the object is located. A separate article, specifically Article 5, shall lay down rules for the dismantling of an object, including that original parts or fragments of the dismantled objects with recognised artistic value or educational significance shall be transferred for storage in the collection of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia in consultation with the National Heritage Administration and the Museum of Occupation of Latvia. Article 6 of the draft law shall lay down special rules for the dismantling of an object where, in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the dismantling of an object, the laws and regulations governing construction are applicable. If the object to be dismantled is classified as culturally historic engineering (regardless of the building group), it shall apply for dismantling the procedure provided for in the regulatory enactments regulating the construction field - notice of construction. Demolition of an object shall be entitled to propose to the relevant municipality regardless of the ownership of the object and without coordination with the owner or the legal holder of the land or object. Where an object is classified as an element of outdoor space improvement, it shall not apply to dismantling the laws and regulations governing construction. And that's important. Any challenge or appeal against a decision on the dismantling of an establishment shall not put an end to its action. The draft law also establishes that the municipality has the right to carry out procurement for the implementation of activities related to the dismantling of an object, without applying the legal provisions governing public procurement, as well as to make changes to the relevant concluded contracts, insofar as this is objectively necessary for the implementation of the relevant activities and does not exceed the thresholds set by the European Union. In order to ensure the proper use of the funds of the client when organising the implementation of activities related to the dismantling of the facility, a price survey shall be carried out. The draft law also provides for the financing of dismantling. The dismantling of an object shall be financed to the same extent from the budgetary resources of the State and the municipality in whose administrative territory the item to be dismantled is located, however, the dismantling of an object shall be financed primarily by natural and legal persons for the purposes of the donations provided for this purpose, if any. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U78	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U79	Hello! Colleagues, both during the commission sitting and today, I call once again on you to start thinking. What are you doing? In order to be understandable: THE WELFARE strongly condemns the aggressor, condemns Russia's invasion of Ukraine, as well as condemns the war in Afghanistan, Yugoslavia, Syria and any other war. But, colleagues, as a monument that was built to remind future generations of the horror of war, can become guilty of that or another war? People are guilty of any strife, but in any war - incompetent politicians. In our case, any monument... not only in Riga... There is nothing other than a reflection of history. We can argue for a long time - we had a bad history or a good one. Colleagues, this is our common history. The monument is the memory of fallen soldiers, the memory of people. By the way, monuments for fallen soldiers are still in the same Ukraine, Germany, in other Member States of the European Union, and nowhere is it threatening the value of a democratic and national state. Many Latvians fought in the Soviet army, as did the German army. And you really think that when visiting the T-34 tank in Riga, Latvian Jānis Berzins associated himself with the occupation? Could he imagine 70 years later that he would be called an occupation? During the meeting of the Commission, one Member accused me of... if it is just a monument, why did Soviet power, when entering Latvia, remove our monument and build its own? Why can they, but we don't? Well, what can I answer? Perhaps a Member cannot say good-bye to her inside the Soviet ideology, and she would like to be like those worst ones. I don't know. Maybe. But I believe that we Latvians and the whole Latvian nation must be higher. Colleagues, do you understand that by breaking down monuments, you show your weakness and actually join the Russians? We need to show that we are a hundred times better, that we understand the pain of all our citizens, that we are united, that our country's Constitution guarantees belief, word, assembly and other freedoms, as it deserves in a truly democratic country. Similarly, in a democratic country, the persecution of political competitors must not be allowed and the situation that one part of the citizens is seizing the power to examine the loyalty of other citizens to our common state. We all have one country - Latvia. We all have to live together, work, raise our children. ( Internouncing call.) We are responsible for ensuring that our country never survives ethnic clashes and that everyone and Russia, including, are like us. Unfortunately, the existence or absence of monuments will not reduce the despair of people who, with a minimum wage, fight for survival, or increase the number of well-paid jobs, will not help to reduce the burden on our educators and doctors, who are today on the verge of burning. And I don't think that this is why our young people will want to leave Latvia in search of happiness after leaving school. Also, our roads do not get more out of the way, and our remote villages continue to die. These are the causes of the problem, and if we want to be good experts, we need to fight with them, not with monuments. I call on you not to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U80	Dear colleagues, The debate will continue after the break. In the grand lobby we invite you to an event dedicated to the centenary of the Latvian Parliament and also to the centenary of the Constitution. We will see in honor of the 100th anniversary of the Latvian Parliament the “Brīve” variety of hopes specially created, selected. Dear colleagues, Today's birthday is celebrated by our fellow Member Richard Kozlovskis and we welcome him. (Applause) Please call me! Please register the Members! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Pause.) Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U81	Colleagues! Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Aldis Blumbergs, Ritvars Jansons... Ritvar Janson was just Alexander Kirštein, Armands Krauze, Linda Medne... Linda Medne is, yes, Ritvars Jansons... is, Romanas Nadiņš, Mārtiņš Steins, Edmunds Teirumnieks and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U82	Interruption until 2 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U83	Dear Members of the Saeima! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Ministers! Today, the Saeima has agreed to address us by President Volodimir Zelenski of Ukraine. The Ukrainian people and their armed forces have been resisting Russia's aggression for more than three months. We admire Ukrainian courage and endurance. The Ukrainians are determined to win. Only the complete victory of Ukraine in this war can be at the heart of sustainable peace. The month after the beginning of the war, on 24 March, together with the leaders of Estonian and Lithuanian parliaments we went to Kiyiv, where we met with President Volodimir Zelenski of Ukraine. Mr Zelensk, today we can once again say the same to you: “The people of Latvia, the Latvian Parliament and always support Ukraine.” The Saeima condemned Russian aggression and expressed its support for Ukraine already on the first day of the war, unanimously adopting a statement on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. On 21 April, the Saeima acknowledged that the Russian Federation is carrying out genocide against Ukrainian people and strongly condemned the military aggression of the Russian Federation and the widespread invasion of Ukraine. The laws adopted by the Saeima ensure the reception of Ukrainian military refugees, and today we are planning to adopt at final reading a law extending support measures for Ukrainian refugees. The ministries responsible for this area still need to be organised. So far we have ensured life in Latvia for about 30 thousand refugees. The Saeima supports granting the status of EU candidate country to Ukraine. Ukraine has shown that it is a member of the European family and it is worth being a member of the European Union in the future. Yes, the calls of some Western politicians and experts to calm down the Russian dictator at the expense of Ukraine are frustrating and embarrassing. Only Ukrainian people and only Ukraine as an entity governed by international law can decide their own territory. Mr. Zelensk, your name.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U84	Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam President of the Saeima, Mrs Inara. First of all, thank you for such warm words, thank you for this support. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Members of the Saeima! Dear people of Latvia! I am glad that I have the opportunity to address you and to thank you first of all for all the help Ukraine has received from the Republic of Latvia, from ordinary citizens, citizens. You see our fight for freedom as your own, as your own, and it really is because it is with us, in Ukraine, that it is with our fate, for all of us, for the people of Europe, precisely with these weapons with which Russia has waged war against our country - against Ukraine - and at the same time with freedom - against the freedom of all our neighbours. And now it is being determined what will prevail in Europe in the near future - in the next 10 years. Will it be justice for every nation that we want, or what Russia will succeed in making the key words for different nations - such as the words 'Occupation', 'Repress', 'Deports'? I am grateful to you for the firm position that you are taking on the side of justice. On 23 February at 18.00, the "sting" came to us - the weapons that we received from you during the first days of war so that we could fully resist the aggression of Russia, and these weapons saved the lives of our people. At the same time as other countries sought reservations, you were among those who took action and you continue to do so and help us to the maximum, both in terms of security and in terms of humanitarian aid, and to show your position towards our citizens who have found temporary asylum in Latvia. Ukraine will always remember your help. I am grateful to you for this. Thank you for this help. Why is it that those who have taken a firm stand choose to act and can really help? And some -- those who don't have big resources -- choose to show their great courage, but some who are powerful, stay aside and find no ability, even a small part of the power you have. Why do they have to be criticised for hypocrisy, for cowardice, for double standards, for supporting Russian aggression? For them, this must be tolerated in order only to stay aside and remain in contact with Russia. These questions could be answered in different ways and, of course, often the answer is simply money. There are those who are simply looking for benefits and who are only able to think about income, interest and extracts from their accounts, and there are those who hope that they can calm down Russia if they do not keep silent and fight against real aggression. But in reality, they are not the determining factors; they are the superstructure; they are all based on the despise of values. There are people, as well as some of the “strong” people of this world who think that not all nations have a role to play in believing that some people could simply forget that they could try to preserve peace. To have temporary peace, the illusory peace, only to have peace at the cost of tens of thousands of people killed, millions of deportees, and people deprived of their homeland. For them it is normal - peace at the cost of the life of other people. But it can't be normal! In the past, not so far away, such disrespect for one nation or other could lead to terrible conspiracy, pacts that could deprive countries of the statehood that could fuel the appetite for war. Millions have died because of this, and the lives of generations have been poisoned. And at least in Europe, we thought that the Western world had come to the conclusion of what it had experienced, but now we hear again that it has to give Russia what it wanted, and as if Ukraine had to accept that a nation could take some part of its foreign policy rights, because a historical power wants it. It is absolutely essential that we negotiate that there may be some delineation at the expense of a sovereign state, that we should soothe the aggressor and, as if we should get up. Get down and get up again. And, of course, at the expense of the country that was attacked so that the aggressor might "comfort" to stop. This is being demanded from a country that has been resisting the army, which is second in terms of its capacity in the world for the fourth month. And what if something like that happens to countries that have less potential for internal protection than Ukraine? How will the world help such countries? Will they simply be handed over without a dispute? It's not just some kind of assumption, it's a reality. Our reality. Russia is openly saying that Ukraine will not be bound by the need for the Baltic States, Poland and other European countries. That is why we must fully restore respect for fundamental values on our continent. We need to fight strongly and at all levels for principles, for the importance of every country and nation, because every nation plays a role. No nation's interests must be ignored, transferred or replaced for something because someone wants to expose that nation. Once this principle is respected by all, Europe will only be united. And then Russia will not have any chance of winning not only the war against Ukraine but also any other war - against any other country. It is said that we should not give all the necessary weapons. And when we talk about it, it is meant that it is as if our people have less value and less importance than other nations that can handle weapons. If someone says that we have to give back some piece of our land, because it seems to be a necessary compromise, it also means that our people are less worthy of its interests. Even more - when we are asked to do a little more, wait a little bit for us to welcome the European Union, for years or decades when we do not want to agree to give us full membership of the EU and some still oppose and even doubt about the granting of candidate status - this only highlights the fact that the principle of respect for our peoples is not working, but it must work, because if Russia does not bring war against any other country, it is not a god, against Latvia that all NATO members will have to decide whether to defend it or not. If Russia provokes a crisis at the border or within another European country, all members of the European Union will have to decide whether to help or not. If they do not respect every nation, what can they decide? We must do everything we need to do so that we never again need to get an answer to a question that is being asked in the same way. Ladies and gentlemen! On March 1, a decision was made at the Riga Castle to award me the Order of the Republic of Latvia of the highest grade - the Order of Viesturs. It is a great honour to me, but I regard it as an award not only for me personally and for my actions, but as an award for our common fight - the fight for independence by the Ukrainian people, the struggle for freedom in Europe by the people of Latvia and the fight by all Europeans who truly respect our common values and hope that Europe could be united and strong. We need this unity to ensure security both in Ukraine and in other countries that could be at risk of Russian aggression. We need strength and unity in Europe so that Russia pays for the full price of this war, in particular sanctions, by means of confiscation, especially asset confiscation. It is only by understanding these tasks that we need to learn that war is causing the greatest problems for the aggressor. We need not only to agree to the sixth sanctions package and to harmonise it, including the oil embargo, but also to adopt and implement even more ambitious sanctions to pay for the terror against Ukraine; Latvia, together with Europe, must restrict Russian energy weapons. And, of course, we need the potential of Europe to bring Russia and all those criminals who carry out genocide against the Ukrainian people under the responsibility of the competent court. I am grateful to your country, your President, Mr Levit, for the initiatives that will help Russian war criminals really face trial. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Latvian people! Our parents hoped that war would not affect our generation that we would not be threatened by what they had to experience, what they had to experience in previous generations - occupations, repressions, deportations. We have everything to eliminate these threats, and I am sure that we will do so together and on the basis of our values. Glory to Ukraine! (Applause) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U85	Mr Zelensk, thank you for this video meeting. Your speech was very touching, and it was eagerly awaited by both the people of Latvia and us here in Parliament. Here in the Saeima's meeting room is Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, members of the Latvian government, Ambassador of Ukraine to Latvia His Excellency Oleksandr Mischenko and Members of Parliament who listened to what you said with unrelenting attention. We all still have a lot of work to do, obviously it will not be short, but it will be long-term... These will be long-term works. But today we say once again on behalf of the people of Latvia: we will always be on the side of justice, freedom, democracy. This means that we will always be on Ukraine's side. You said, "Praise Ukraine!" Let me tell you on our behalf: “We are good praise! Heroes of glory!’ Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U86	Thank you very much once again. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U87	Thank you to the Prime Minister, members of the government, thank you once again to the Ukrainian Ambassador to Latvia. Colleagues! Five-minute break. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U88	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia”. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U89	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, sir! I am strongly opposed to the adoption of this draft law. It does not raise awareness, but the public is misled about the events of the Second World War in Latvia. There is a difference between the Soviet regime's famous monuments and monuments, which were created in honour of the Red Army soldiers, who won Hitler's German troops and expelled them from Latvia. The draft law ignores this difference challengingly, so it must be rejected. The bill has brutally offended the remaining Veterans of the Red Army, who risked their lives in battle. I apology their children and grandchildren belonging to Latvia, who are proud of their fathers and grandparents and put flowers at monuments. The draft law must therefore be rejected. This year, on 9 and 10 May, they also put down flowers in honour of the Red Army soldiers and then protest against the brutal harvest of flowers, rather than commemorating the Russian army's troops. I saw it and confirm it, because I also put flowers on May 9 and 10 at Freedom... Forgive me, at the liberator monument in Pārdaugava. Monument in Pārdaugava is not a Russian monument and is not a Russian monument. Around 100,000 Latvians and other Latvians fought in the Red Army. The monument in Pārdaugava is the same Latvian monument as the Russian monument. I am referring to this in the previous debate. Also among your voters are grandsons of the 130th Latvian Randlemen of the Red Army. They remember the grandfathers. Demolition of the monument also offends them. This superstitious bill (Intellect.) appeared in the shadow of Russian aggression, with its authors hoping that, at a time when the indignationed world is going through Ukraine's tragedy, it is easier to implement its long-standing intention. You deliberately refuse to distinguish Ukraine's war from the Second World War. You think it's easier to prove that the Red Armies and the Russian army are the same people. And then the liberator monument in Pārdaugava immediately becomes Putin's monument. ( Insight: “Ukraine will also break down all these monuments. Get out of here!” ) Latvia understands, however, that the Russian invasion in Ukraine and the release of Latvia from the Histlers are two different events. The Russian army has nothing to do with the Red Armies. ( Internouncing call.) Once again, unlike the authors of the bill and those who call for it, the President of Ukraine is not separated from the Red Army that struck the Hitlers. It was on 9 May that Volodimir Zelenski spoke to his people, saying: “Today we celebrate the victory over Nazism, and we will not give back any part of our history. We are proud of our ancestors who have won Nazism together with other peoples of the anti-hytler coalition." ( End quoted) Unlike those who support the destruction of the monument in Latvia, the President of Ukraine does not avoid 9 May, from the victory of his people in the Second World War, but in this victory finds strength for his fight. He says so because victory over Nazism makes him stronger. ( Milestones.) You, ladies and gentlemen, are demolishing the monuments of the Second World War because they make you weaker. If the Saeima adopts this law, it will cover Latvia with an indelible shame for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U90	Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U91	Hello, dear colleagues! I wanted to reflect on two of the things that came out of the SAID Members here. First. So it was mentioned here that it was a monument to fallen soldiers. I remind you that it is a monument to the so-called Riga liberators, who are also visible in the monument, who return their lives with victory at home, and they are welcomed by a woman - mother. So life. When it comes to the fallen people who were in connection with the so-called release of Riga, they were mostly civilians who died in the center of Riga when the Russian bombers were held cruelly bombing before the so-called release. There was no fight for Riga, so no one who fell from the Soviet army was actually there, because the Germans had already resigned long ago. And the other one - the previous speaker said here that there is no connection and that there is no connection between today's Russian soldiers in Ukraine and those Russian soldiers who "freed" Latvia. I will receive a couple of reports from Mr Pimenova, from the USSR authorities, from May 1945 here in Latvia. First. May 21, 1945. ‘ There are reports of mass robbery and rapes coming from the trustees. It was found that a 11 - year - old girl and a family were raped in Dunalka parish. Within seven days, two rapes and 15 robberys from Russia have been registered in the parish of Cirava and Dunalka. Cases of robbery of people and even rape of women have been recorded in all parishes of Ventspils County. In pope - two, in Edole - five cases." The Vilis Lāčs report. ‘ In a number of freed parishes of Ventspils County are being robbed. This is where soldiers have done power for seven women. Two rapes of girls by soldiers have been recorded in the parish of Dundaga and Cirava. One of them has been 14 years of age.” And finally on May 1, 1945, just before May 9. ‘ the maakond of Jelgava, in the municipality of Vircava with a gun shot by the owner of the house Lisna Jānis. The murder was committed at the time of the rape attempt by his daughter, Irma Lisna. It has been found that lieutenant Sokolovsky has been killed from a part of the army 109.”The question to the members of the SASAKAJA - will you also honor lieutenant Sokolovski at that monument? I assume, most likely, yes. But you shouldn't expect everyone else to be very satisfied with it. If you want to honor the USSR army, then it must do so, most likely, in Moscow, because here the USSR army is an occupying army that brought 50 years of occupation, not release. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U92	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U93	Dear colleagues, Dear Chairman of the Saeima. We are currently looking at the draft law, not at our own perceptions of history. Yesterday I had an opportunity to listen to the phonogram of the meeting of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science. It is really interesting to assess that people with higher education, including professors of teleart, are trying to justify barbarism and the destruction of monuments of woodland. The destruction of about 300 Soviet-era monuments in Latvia by scale can be compared to the Taliban act of Afghanistan... which blew up the statues of the Bud. ( Interface: “Maybe it would be better for monuments than for people to be destroyed.” ) But I would like to ask the Chair of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Mr Arvilas Aseradens, a member of the Commission, Professor Bikše and other colleagues, how it happened that 30 years after the restoration of Latvia's independence, we still have famous monuments of the Soviet regimes, as it is written in the title of this bill. Do you really know, Mr Asheraden and Mr Bikše, where the monuments of Lenin, Stalin or the like have remained in Latvia? In reality, of course, it is about the monuments of the Red Army that have been installed after the war. Well, write it down. Then it should have been called, rather than the law introducing an artificial reference to 1940, and even more so to mention some monuments of the Nazi regime. There have never been such Nazi monuments in Latvia and I hope there will be no such monuments. The authors of the draft law should have mentioned the Soviet and Nazi regime in their title to show that they are against all that is bad, but in essence we are talking only about monuments of Soviet or Russian times. But why haven't they been interfering for 30 years? ( Milestones.) When did we, the co-legislators, adopt any regulatory act? We must follow, among other things, the principles of legal continuity. In this case, however, we are invited to lead. Medicines cause noise.) of, so to speak, a revolutionary legal consciousness. ( The utterances: “Uow! ”) ), but without pitholes in Latvian soil. There will be a huge pit out of the crowded monuments in the public consciousness. ( Milestones.) Its ritual castration of the public space, which you propose to implement, will primarily refer to Latvian culture! Don't be taboos and Bolsheviks! ( Milestones.) I can speak aloud, too. The Bible says: “I am sick, and I am sick. ” — I propose voting 'no'. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U94	Colleagues, Colleagues! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) I understand the emotions, but we're at the Saeima sitting. Colleagues, we're at the Saeima sitting. Mr. Neighbours, we are sitting in the Saeima. We are talking about monuments of Soviet occupation. The name to the Member Atm Lejny. ( Interfaces: “The whole left flank is monuments of the occupation time.” ; “If you look from us, then the left flank is... “ Thank you. ” Colleagues, name to Member Atom Leeniņi.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U95	Dear Bureau! Dear Members, Honourable Members! Two weeks ago, when driving a car, I listened to BBC FM. One young Russian in very good English, and of course he now lives in England, he was... Then he was 42 when he spoke. He told us how when he was young, he remembered May 9, in Moscow. And there are two things he said. At first there was only a commemoration of the fallen ones, but it was also interesting that no word was said about the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. No word was said that the chitleric Germany and Stalinist Russia fought together against Poland and that the two troops went together in the parade of Victory at the parade afterwards. And about the Finnish war... about the Finnish war in history books there was only one small line - the Soviet Union won. That's all. Then he later noticed that in some way 9 May turned into something else - a military expression - and that it turned into an icon, an icon of the military power of the USSR. Yes, I have never heard with us, Mr. Village, that the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact would also be mentioned on 9 May. True, Nazi Germany was expelled from Latvia, but no word was said that, unfortunately, there was a new occupation. No words have been heard about it on 9 May. You know, this is not a monument in Estonia, it is not a monument in Lithuania. And you already know how it was made. With voluntary retirements from our parents, Grandparents. You have all seen a great Latvian multi-series film “ Emily. Latvian Press Queen’. And what was the main hero next to, of course, Emily, Mr. Benjamin? Willis Lācis. I recommend that you read the book “The Man of the Future. Willis Lācis’. Vilis Lācis, remember, did not join the Berklavian movement, the Latvian National Communist. He didn't join him because he was cowardly. He was only able to relieve his pain and what is happening in Latvia, their extremely rapid and large resurgence in the conjac bottle. Every night on the bottle. And he trusted only one person from the Ministry of Culture... who also sentenced one conjac bottle, but that's all he could do. The image today is an icon for those who want to rebuild the Soviet Union. We have to get it out of here. We have to live in free Latvia once! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U96	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U97	Ladies and gentlemen! It is a paradox that the draft law on the demolition of monuments was drafted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, but the story isn't about it. Three things I would like to say about. First thing. There are dark and bright days in the history of each nation and each country, days related to victory moves, dark and dramatic, even tragic days, which, unfortunately, each history has much more than victory, but history remains history. There's nothing out of history. It can be removed from history books, but not from history. That's the first. Second. To the authors of the draft law, I would like to remind you that not only the decrees on land, on peace were among the first decrees of the Soviet government, but there was a decree on the destruction of monuments. That's what happened. Very many monuments after the establishment of Soviet power in Russia, so at that time in Russia, and not in the USSR, were destroyed. Should we repeat this path in the fight against the consequences of Soviet power? And the third. If the monuments are broken down, what will happen next day? People's consciousness will change, there will be a sin, and those who didn't do anything 30 with unnecessary... years to do this faster... What will they do what they say? Memory remains in people's minds, not in books. And it remains and will remain. To eliminate it... It can only be eliminated with humans. Is that the right way? What will happen next day after the monuments have been demolished? Will there be happiness for all people? Will all the problems come about? Demolition of monuments is not the best way. That is why I would also ask you to think about what we are doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U98	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U99	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I think I will add a little to what Ata Lejiņa said, but it is about free time. I remember very well how this, as it is referred to in various ways, I will say that at the beginning of the nineties, there were more than ten people - ten people! - Forms of the Soviet army. Most likely, the veterans who may indeed have fought in World War II. I can't put her in my head and understand if they gathered there only on 9 May, or in nostalgic memories about the Soviet Socialist Republic of Latvia, but that's the feeling that it was combined. And for ten years from the moment of Latvia's independence, the number of these people is getting smaller, smaller and smaller. In fact, the fate of this monument, the fate of dismantling, I will say so, was actually decided in the New Year of 2001, 1 January, when my year... In his position as President of Russia, Vladimir Putin celebrated a new Russian anthem, that is to say, the anthem of the Soviet Union, supplemented by the words of Mihalkov. Since then, this place in Riga has slowly begun to become the temple of Russian imperialism. Nils Ushakov also put his art, especially as he said, in order to be with his constituents. He used the same argument to encourage a referendum on multilingualism in Latvia - to be with his voters. By this I do not want to say that all the people who went to this monument, from 2001, deliberately went to support Russia's imperialist aspirations. No, it's a finer thing. It's somewhere deep in the subconscious. It's a fine manipulation of human minds for 20 years. Finally, I will add that I agree with Alvis Herman, the director of the New Riga Theatre, who said: “Maybe someone could protect him who wanted to protect him.” If, this year, 9 May, people with Ukrainian flags would go there instead of attacking those who stood there with Ukrainian flags. So that fate is decided unconsciously... but de facto 1 January 2001. For twenty years we have tolerated it. The Ukrainian war, the invasion of Ukraine, to be precise, has put a stop to it. You can't break it down anymore. It will thrill the minds of Latvian society, as well as those who are not yet aware that it has become the temple of Putin, clearly, but much, much worse to do not break something down. So that I also call on those who do not yet understand to understand it. It's time. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U100	Name to Member Long Schuplinsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U101	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! In fact, I was not prepared to speak, but what happened yesterday in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science and today encouraged me to do so. I am in favour of creating myths at this point in time being not being the responsibility of the citizen. I'll start with some. Mr Kucin, in your speech, you referred in principle to me in particular, without calling me first, but I will tell you what the conversation was with the Commission in question. And there was a subsequent conversation in the commission. So all the concrete message that this story of this particular draft law has been set up today, but it is just a monument. I mentioned the example of Rezekne, and when the Red Army entered Rezekne, the monument of Māra was taken away. The other thing - I mentioned the example of Rezekne, where Rēzekne was bombed from Soviet troops on Easter 1945, but there is a monument of Soviet soldiers. And I finished my speech with a specific phrase - if it's just a monument, why is this conversation all the time? The second myth that came out today was that the Commission for Education, Culture and Science talks about 300 signs, which it must say is about to be removed. Not only is it not true, they are open lies, because this draft law is also immediately disproved - about 300 memorial places have been recorded in Latvia, many of which are burial sites or those related to victims of terrorism from both sides, and here, among other things, the fact that these victims are both from the Red Army and the Nazi army. Third. We are talking about thinking, but I would really advise everyone to think about what he is doing and what he is talking about first. And that is, the text: “We need to be a hundred times stronger, smarter and more accurate in Latvia.” Isn't it again the same big Russian chauvinism that always suggests that a small, small nation needs to break something so that it starts thinking, talking about it and doesn't have to happen at all? One more thing. If it is necessary to start thinking to those who have written this bill, I am calling on the party who is voting against it all the time, to take action because we do not have a common history and cannot have a common history - a history... Why? The previous speakers have explained very precisely. In 1945, it was not a victory for Latvia as many European countries, which means that, at the time of the destruction, mitigation, the public symbols of Soviet power, as they have been, are undergoing a mental change - from the winner's syndrome, these people, who have associated themselves with this monument, finally understand what the victim means, what tragedy means. I would very much like your party to explain this concept, especially in Latgale, where this information space is still, and understanding of today's day is absolutely imprecise. And the last one. I would really like this draft law to put an end to the past and let the whole of Latvia rest in the future. Only when the past has been re-evaluated and it is possible, among other things, to give up the very unpleasant, tragic, even more so, as Mr Schmidt said, with the pages that manipulate the people - only at that moment can the country go to growth. I very much hope that we all understand that. And indeed, it's not just a monument. It is a symbol of what the President of Ukraine has just mentioned. It is a symbol of deportations, fear of myself, from the fact that I express my opinion. It is a symbol of what can no longer happen in Latvia and Europe. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U102	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U103	Colleagues, I really did not intend to speak on this issue today, but this passionate debate still encouraged me to do so, and I will also give my opinion on this draft law. Of course, the understanding of history, as we see here in this House of Saeima, in this Parliament, is different. I join those colleagues who believe that the release came together with the occupation of the people of Latvia. The occupation was, and this monument in Pārdaugava is known as the symbol of the occupation, which is very actively reproduced. I very much join in what Mr Krauze said at one of the previous sittings of the Saeima that, in principle, this decision should have been taken at the time when all monuments were collected on the street of Brīvības and monuments were collected throughout Latvia. It was already in the 1990s that this decision should have been taken. Unfortunately, this did not happen, and today it is the level of tolerance in Latvia that has actually already been decided. It has been accepted by both Riga City Council and we, the Saeima, have accepted it. And now we continue to move forward with draft laws. However, I call for this draft law to be significantly improved. What, in my opinion, in this draft law is not enough - that this date is inserted - 15 November. In my opinion, this date should be faster. This must happen already during this Saeima. And in some way, it should also be symbolic, for example, it would be August 23, when this monument should be destroyed. If we go this way, putting this issue behind after the elections... November 15th... then we will see that there will be a long and wide-ranging debate on this issue in the pre-election cycle, and we will see what Parliament will be. I would not want the political forces to come to this House just because of this one issue: one, go down more quickly, and the other, go up to defend this... removal. And today we have already seen this debate; here it was, it was. I would therefore urge you to change this date and make it 23 August, and to take responsibility, if necessary, for the Heads of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to adopt further amendments so that this can really happen. We see that society has already donated a very large amount of money to make this happen. Change laws, make decisions so that this can happen faster so that we do not have to wait until 15 November! Colleagues, I call for support for this draft law as soon as possible. If there is a chance for proposals, then 23 August - it will be the date that I will offer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U104	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U105	Dear colleagues, I agree with what Mr. Valaiņa said in it... where he points out that this bill will really become a pre-election battle object between those who want to remove monuments and those who want to preserve them. And that, unfortunately, colleagues, is the cheapest way of drawing the voter's attention. We are not currently fighting for who will eliminate the OIC, who will want to keep the OIC. We are not fighting for how Latvians could defend themselves in the event of an energy crisis, but the biggest fight is that we will teach each other history. That is how the fight against monuments starts when the value crisis starts. We see this, for example, in the situation in the United States, where there is also a fight against confederal monuments and other cases. But here we see that this bill is one that, in my opinion, humiliates the self-esteem of all Latvians. We have lived in an independent state for 30 years, but the aim of this law is to prevent the disdain and threat of the values of Latvia as a democratic and national state. This means that monuments made by Latvian sculptors... how we see a small reservation in this draft law that yes, maybe some details will need to be preserved and put into the museum, but this artistic value will not be destroyed, let's say. Given that these monuments have also been made by Latvian sculptors, and given that... we see that the creators of this victory monument... Of them, only two people have left their lives, who are very, very respectable at the age and will probably not be able to say anything about what they think about this draft law. You believe that this is the best way to increase the values of Latvia as a democratic and national state, to ensure security in the country and to increase the confidence of the Latvian nation. I think you have a completely wrong understanding of how we can feel safe and proud of our country in our country. Not by this law, honourable colleagues, not by this law! - we will feel proud and rejoice at what this Saeima has done. I am very sorry that this, 13, Saeima will enter the history of Latvia as one of such very, very lax Saeima - the champion of “fast” laws. We see that several “fast” laws with very, very strange aims of laws will certainly be shown to law students, so that they can investigate how the Saeima has erred in legislation and how the Saeima, trying to adopt different laws in the course of the day, has made itself a laughter. I will not support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U106	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U107	Colleagues! My childhood did not go with the pioneers, but my childhood was still linked to those vivid memories when I was sitting on the television and watching the Baltic Way. I still remember the restoration of independence, and I still remember very vividly how, right here in Riga, red bullets were flying in the black darkness when we fought for our independence. ( Singings, ‘ Wait, what do you remember, and what do you not remember?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “It doesn’t come together, you know?” ) I would like to say that I have grown up in Latvia's independence and I will certainly fight for it and stand up for it. ( Internouncing call.) I'm very disgusting and disgusting, let's say, look at how people who are not loyal to our country, who would be ready to do the least, I think we'd even turn the clock if a moment would come like... This is currently happening in Ukraine. I do not understand how such people and such a party can still be here in the Saeima and speak against Latvia after 30 years, but I must admit that this is a mistake for Latvian independence politicians, which is, let us say, extended over these 30 years, because I believe it was necessary to fully introduce the same Latvian language into schools for a long time. It is unacceptable that we are still talking about it in 30 years' time and extending it for a few years. It is very unacceptable for me that young people when they go the same way... in the store and address the seller, still speaks Russian. In my view, this is a disrespect for the state, for the person who lives in it, but it must be understood that there are very many tasks that should be done now urgently. Of course, one is to demolish this monument, but it will not change anything, because there are many tasks that we should think about. It is an economy, so that every person can feel belonging and would like to live here and not start to compare with another country. For my part, therefore, those first works that I would certainly call... First of all, think about these economics at the moment... about the crisis that is approaching, don't leave it for the last moment and definitely don't think about the elections, but... It should be introduced in August or September, but we must think about it now. It is not the right time either, to say 15 November. I think it has to be done much more quickly. There is no need to give a reason, let us say this, to ludicrous parties to shine their feathers before the elections. A lot of work needs to be done. And I also call on the honourable coalition, however, not to flick with a party that you often do to get your voices, because that is how you don't get this big one of us... freedom, you didn't watch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U108	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U109	Colleagues! I am ashamed that, after all these years of independence, we must listen to speeches from the parliamentary tribunal trying to justify the crimes of the Soviet Union. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) Here, some pseudo Members spoke about the arrival of someone and the release of Latvia. How did Latvia be freed in 1940? What fascists? ( Internouncing call.) What freed the people who were murdered in Central Prison? What freed the Latvian army officers who were murdered and deported in Liten? How did the deportees of Latvia be released in the summer of 1941? ( Internouncing call.) By the way, in 1944, in 1945, when Estonia declared its independence and Latvia was also on the way to restoring independence at the time when the German army resigned. What did that Red Army get rid of? It simply eliminated attempts to restore the statehood of Latvia and, consequently, Estonia. The Red Army freed national partisans living in the forests of Latvia, who, with the flags of Latvia, went in their hands to fight the occupations and also freed many places on a temporary basis? They were the real liberators, not the criminals of the Red Army. Here, some (I don't know what you mean about the foam) are trying to say that Latvians were running in the Red Army on a voluntary basis. It is also a war crime committed by the Soviet Union, which mobilised the people of Latvia massally in the Red Army. I would remind you that we have Article 74.1 of the Criminal Law, which provides that the justification for genocide, crimes against humanity, crimes against peace and war crimes is punishable. I hope that the State Police will stand here not only in relation to not wearing masks, but will cover those pseudo-deputies who grossly violate the Criminal Law of Latvia. If you are talking about this torture stake in Pārdaugava, then you have to look at the context. This is a symbol that the Soviet Union, Russia, has deliberately shaped as a symbol of propaganda. ‘ Harmony, the Russian Union of Latvia, PCVUL (we can call them in every word) are those who have tried to strengthen this Kremlin's narrative in Latvia. After all, you had been in contact with George's tapes a few years ago. You were happy to stand there when the anthem of the USSR and the flags of the USSR sounded. They were you. ( Subtotal: “Well don’t lie! ” ) And I am ashamed that even this year, in a situation where war is taking place in Ukraine, in a situation where the law of the Saeima was passed, it will be a day of commemoration of victims and deaths in Ukraine, our guys who went there on 10 May to walk with the flags of Latvia and Ukraine had to face an attack and name of fascists. What loyal elements of the country then gathered there?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Those who shouldn't have been here a long time ago in our country! I hope that today we will adopt this law. And more importantly, in the long term we will also free ourselves from those who hate our country! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U110	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U111	Colleagues and Latvian society! I didn't mean to talk to this subject, but I was encouraged by the shouting of the drug - on the one hand in the direction of the other - that was either with a played or with a real hatred. And these shoutings were, “Get the goods, go away!” I don't know if it was played or real, but I want to turn to both sides. I want to turn to both those who regard themselves as ultrapatriots and those who regard their place as a place... released Latvia. And I want you to listen to what I tell you. There are a lot of people in Latvia who perceive our country as land, as street, as the facade of the house, as the market of Agenskalns with the beautiful lamp, as shrubs, as the piers, as flags and also as stones, as monuments. There are so many people who are trying to make lifeless objects and living things alive and worshipable and forget about the most important thing about human beings. In 30 years, I have not heard as passionate a speech as the stones. I have not heard about the fact that 40 thousand men in Latvia do not care about their children. ( Independence: “43! ” ) Over these 30 years, I have not heard the same passionate talk about the mother getting EUR 11, but she should get full pay because raising children is a job. I've heard hatred, hatred among people. I'm hateful of uratrapathism. I hate it as political capital. Hate that drives out of Latvia (Interface.) hundreds and thousands (Military: “Do not call... Don’t stop!’ ; “Neighbour, shut up once!” “Who says that?” Other intermediates.) ... I also say this about people who do not have respect for those who think otherwise. I was in Daugavpils yesterday, late in the evening. ( Milestones.) At about ten o’clock on the street in Daugavpils, there was such a group of young people sitting smilingly at the cafe. There were both Latvian and Russian-speaking young people. As we know, Daugavpils has a large proportion of society, whose mother tongue is also Russian. One very intelligent young man came to me, he was not a Latvian, he was a Russian, at the age of 20-25. He also encouraged me to make this speech today. He said: “Many of my peers leave Latvia because they divide us.” He said: “I love Latvia!” And he said that, unfortunately, maybe... or fortunately, I don’t know I’m hard to say, but he said – he said: “I’m easier to tell you it quickly in Russian.” He said: “I love Latvia! I'm born here. I love Latvia! I love that we can all be here, but I feel hurt at 25 years of age that we are divided.” ( Internouncing call.) That is the question today, in a situation where we, as a society, should actually not be doing lifeless things... and I put it both on one side and on the other side... not through the worship of dead objects and the correction of idolatry, but to start talking about the most important, most important, man. For a person who leaves Latvia because unfortunately no one is interested in our country, as I mentioned, that we have been sent out today to families in exile - to England, Ireland, Sweden, Germany - because Latvians are scattered all over the world, because the symbols that we live in are more important - to everyone who is in this hall and who is making political capital with it. Today, much more passionate talk should have been about how we will heat our Latvian houses cheaply in winter. Today we should have talked about how our nurses will be able to pay for electricity or a kindergarten, which will become more expensive and is still not available, is still not available to children born twice as little as... died, statistically. And just because we have the stones we want to make for life. I would like to emphasise one more important thing, not starting on either side or on the other side... but emphasize one small detail. This part is that there is no doubt that the Soviet occupation has produced negative, terrible negative, consequences in many families. It has had a terrible negative impact on our entire society and on the way of thinking, which is still here, in this Parliament, today. But during the Soviet era, no one demolished the monument to Freedom. ( Insight: “Almost demolished! ” ) I do not want to defend one stone or another. I want to start by talking about the fact that we all have... And it is our duty, and we have sworn it in our oath. Our Saeima Member's oath was not trust in stones, but trust in the people of Latvia, living people, people with a passport that says "Latvian citizenship", people who are of different nationalities, but with a Latvian passport. For this, we swore trust, not stones, not temples. We can lay down, we can break all the stones and build new ones, go up in ten priests and all possible flags, but Latvia will continue to die if lifeless things and lifeless objects are the most important thing for us, not human beings. And I don't give five, as the Latvians say, if we continue in this way, then after 30 years with a majority of the votes cast (I stress - with a majority of the votes cast!) there will be a mosque built because Latvians leave Latvia. Statistically, hundreds of thousands (Interior call.) ... Hundreds of thousands of people leave Latvia because (Interview.) ... His nature does not love emptiness. Yeah, nature doesn't love emptiness. Some leave, others come. ( Milestones.) And by the end. The biggest one, if you notice, the ones who stopped my speech were who? Those who have brought people: Puce (with a pass) and Neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U112	I invite you to know that you are in the Saeima sitting and in the parliament. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U113	Dear colleagues, The terrible Russian war of the evil empire against Ukraine has given us, those who are about Latvia, the opportunity to be safe and firm not only in song, but also in everyday life, defending the interests of our countries and peoples. It is a God - given opportunity to get and stand firm in his presence. The reborn Eastern monster, without being aware of it, has motivated us to be harsh. — Insight. , strong and gradually regaining the power of their people, which was the basis for the motivation of our freedom fighters and Latvian legioners in the fight against the evil of the world - red plague. It is in the interest of all the people living in Latvia who think about it to correct the written history of the evil empire. It is precisely the distorted history that has become a very active part of Putin's Russian propaganda and the hybrid war attack on our country. We may have been given the only historical opportunity to make a decisive blow to the renewed cult of communism and big Russian chauvinism and once and for all to win the Second World War so that our ancestors, who have low blood for Latvia, would be pleased in that sun looking at us. The distorted history must be corrected so that Latvian patriots no longer live in a divided society, where part of society is deformed by critical thinking and understanding of what is justice and what is true. An ancient saying tells us that the truth can hurt for a while, but injustice will always hurt. It will also be with these hate artifacts. Years will pass, and people will begin to forget the nightmares and the propaganda of evil. Dear colleagues and all those listening! Histories are written not by the winners, but by those on whose side they are right. It is in this way that a triumph of righteousness takes place. Thank you to all those who have begun work on this law. Of course, we are aware that decommunisation needs to be carried out much more widely than by dismantling objects of hate ideology propaganda, but that is an ambitious start. By dismantling these artifacts of the communism cult, we stress the importance of symbols in clashes between different ideologies and even civilisations. We will take a step in the way in which our people will support us, and we will dismantle the networks of communist and Nazi Russia in both human minds and practices. I call for support for this draft law at first reading. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U114	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U115	Colleagues! Aldis Gobzems talked about hatred, real or played. I can say that Aldi was lucky because he grew up in Kuldīga district, which is one of the most Latvian regions in Latvia. I know that because I often spent a lot of time in Kuldīga district as a child because my relatives live there. By the way, my cousin studied in the same class as Aldi. ( Milestones.) Yeah. But I live 60 kilometers [60 km] further, in Ventspils, where the population is about half a half. I learned from the age of about five that there are two societies in Latvia: ours, Latvians, and occupations. Already among the children there was hatred between these two groups, and that hatred has not ended, as the occupations are still pending. I see... The same thing that Edwin Snore said about the Second World War in Latvia - about raped children, about shot old-fashioned people - we see in Ukraine right now. We read about nine-year-old, fourteen-year-old raped children from the same occupations, which broke in Latvia in the Second World War. Tell me how, when you read these messages, remembering the stories of our grandparents, you don't hate these occupations. I hate them. Occupieds have no place in Latvia. And I hope that one day in Latvia all children will be able to grow up in an environment like Aldis Gobzems, where 95 percent are Latvians. ( Milestones.) I hope that also in Ventspils, Riga and Daugavpils Latvian children will be able to grow up in such an environment. This is not the case at the moment, and while the Occupants walk on our land and bless their Occupies, our children will live in hatred. I don't want to wish it to our children.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U116	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U117	I must give a little rejoinder to what Mr Iesalnieks said. Unfortunately, Mr. Iesalnieks is not aware that I studied in a school where there were two flows – Latvian and Russian. And somehow, Mr. Izalnieks, it happened that we had no conflict. ( Milestones.) Unfortunately, for you (Interior: “I also studied in a two-flow school! ” )... I want to say more. I was travelling to Rezekne and Daugavpils yesterday, and I had a driver who is Crimean, whose main language is Russian, who is a citizen of Latvia. To your mind, Mr. Izalnieks, he would be a pro-kremlist, even though he is a Crimean Tatar. We talked in Latvian about politics, about many things and about hatred. The hatred between people is created by politicians in the name of selfish interests. Your speech, Mr Izalnieks, commemorating me and how I have grown up, although you do not know how I have grown up, was a typical example of how to manipulate hate speech, with the sowing of hatred, because, whatever I may have differences of opinion (and I do not agree very much with this flank, which, in my view, is dancing with you in a romantic tango to be in Parliament), I am deeply convinced - deeply convinced! - that the patriot of Latvia is as much as you, Mr. Izalnieks, are also Mr. Pimenov. ( The utterance is, “Aye, Awake! ”) ; methacrylics.) I am deeply convinced that in Latvia, very many people who were born in families where the basic language is not Latvian have the same size as Latvian, independent Latvian patriots. Independent - I stress. Those who mark 18 November, those who mark 4 May and attend Song Festivals, and go to Latvian schools like children of Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. That's what I'm saying? I call, Mr. Iesalnieks, to carry hatred among people, because all of us here in Latvia will have to live here after 2022 until the day of our death. And we will not only have to live, but also live and help each other; and as a citizen of the Republic of Latvia, I can say that I have been living in difficult times, when my children have had health problems, or when there has been a disaster in my family, I have helped people who are Jews, who are Russians, who are Crimean Tatars, as well as Latvians living in Latvia. Let us therefore bring hatred against one another, because hatred brings destruction. The hate brings destruction, and no Latvian will be born here more simply because we will sow hatred, Mr. Izalnieks. It will not happen, it has never happened, and there are no such examples in the history of the world. But in the history of the world there are examples that the country is flourishing when we start to take care of each other, to support each other, to help each other, to listen to each other and to understand, even if we have different opinions, even if one is Kuldīga and the other is Rēzekne - like Urbanovich. Hate is evil, and hatred is the beginning of the war, Mr. Izalnieks! The hatred you are sitting down. I ask you not to do that! This is the time when, with hatred, we take a closer step towards war, and you will be, Mr. Izalnieks, responsible for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U118	The name to Member Boris Cilevič. ( Insight: “Stop talking! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U119	Dear colleagues, What I hear in this Chamber today is unfortunately a success of Putin's aggression. When this aggressive war started in Ukraine, our colleague Kariņš called on us not to avenge our Russians for it, not to take them responsibility for what Putin does. Right then, I wrote in one comment that it was very good, but I do not believe that politicians will follow this call. And what we are hearing today is the best proof that, unfortunately, you have not endured for a long time, colleagues. You found enemies somewhere closer than Moscow. I fully agree with Mr Feldman: history must not be overwritten. But what I heard today during some speeches is really a new interpretation of history. Indeed, from whom did Latvia be freed? During no speech, no speech I heard even mention that there was an occupation of the Nazis. Mr Dombrava also did not answer this rhetorical question of which he released. As if it could be understood that Latvia was almost independent, that the Latvian forces drove out the Nazis themselves and then the USSR army simply came and damaged everything. Let's see what you said. And, of course, this... Mr. Izalnieks very clearly demonstrated... because it's not about the occupations. He spoke very clearly about Latvians and Russians, of course, forgetting that Latvians fought on both sides, just like Latvian Russians. And it was all turned into a completely ethnic plate. Indeed, your goal is to make Riga, Daugavpils and so forth 95 percent Latvian? Isn't it... You don't call ethnic cleansing? How do you even want to interpret it? You know, I do a lot of ethnic conflicts in different countries, and well, I know your words. I'm not going to write any applications, of course, but, of course, things like that... I don't think it's a good sign that these calls are from the Saeima. What do you want to achieve? Really such an ethnic cleanliness? Such ethnic uniformity? But what about those ideas about democracy and so on? You know, I'm so sorry that... This time, indeed, our Prime Minister made some very correct words. I would, exceptionally, ask you, as a Member of the opposition, however, to listen to what the Prime Minister says, because indeed - if we turn this huge tragedy into a challenge for Europe as a whole, a challenge for Europe as a whole, a challenge for European democracy with just such an ethnic opposite, it will not benefit us, nor will it benefit Europe as a whole. Here I can also agree with Mr Gobzem: the absolute majority of Latvia's Russians are loyal people, and they are much more difficult because Russia... That's... You didn't see anything, you saw what was shown to you. And, you know, there's a science like sociology. Unfortunately, it doesn't work for us because it sees, hears what louder screams, and you can always very successfully choose an example, then show... You say - all Russians are such - without understanding the motivation of these people. This is a very dangerous trend. No, I have no illusions, because in fact one of Putin's goals is to extort their fragile peace in Latvian society, and listening to you, I think he has achieved this goal. You are allies, unfortunately that is so. We all understand very well, however, that the monument is not the final goal; it is an intermediate stage. Who's going to be next? You're talking here that a few parties should be banned... okay... and so on. Well, but thank you to Mr Iesalnieks, he very clearly marked their ultimate goal. Think, colleagues, whether this objective really is compatible with democratic principles, with human rights, with the rule of law, with all the beautiful words that we remember here on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U120	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U121	On behalf of the Commission, I can only ask honourable and honourable Members of the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U122	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -18, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U123	The deadline for submitting proposals for second reading is five working days, i.e. 2 June of this year. On behalf of the Commission, please include the draft law at second reading in the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 16 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U124	So the deadline for proposals is 2 June this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 16 June this year. Is this a different proposal for Member Kucin? Please! Microphone for Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U125	There is a proposal: the deadline for submitting proposals is 30 October this year. ( Not clear. Impressions: “It couldn’t be understood!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U126	So the deadline for proposals is 30 November this year. And consideration of the Saeima sitting...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U127	October.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U128	October 30th. And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U129	Next Thursday... The Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U130	That's what? ( Milestones.) Colleagues, let the proposer state (Interface: I don't understand!) ), the proposal. So on 30 October, the deadline for proposals. And consideration of the Saeima sitting? ( Interface: “Never! ” ; dep. Mr Kucin speaks in an out-of-court microphone.) I can't hear it. Date, please date! ( Milestones: How many years have you been sitting here?) ; “After the time of Riga, not Moscow, yes?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U131	At the first ordinary session of the new term. ( Subtotal: “You can’t! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U132	We can only look at this Saeima. Opinion of the Legal Bureau. Only for this Saeima. ( Milestones.) Turn on the microphone for Kucin, please! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U133	At the next meeting after 30 October. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “I don’t understand what he is saying!” ) ( Pause. Medicines cause noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U134	Okay. Colleagues, let's vote! ( Insight: “What? I don’t understand!” ; methacrylics.) Colleagues, intermediates (Rolling Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... the intersings during the Saeima sitting are permitted, but please do not be congregate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “I don’t understand what he says!” ) You do not need to hear, I will tell you. (Laughter) Thank you very much. So we will vote in favour of the deadline for tabling proposals (interim.) ... Mr. Neighbours, get out of the room, stop betchaining here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “What are we voting on?” ; intermediate call.) Mr. Neighbours, please! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Inara, I don’t hear!” ) Get out of the medicine, stop fragranting! Stop it! ( Milestones.) So there is a proposal for a deadline for the submission of proposals (interim call.) - 30 October of this year. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 30 October this year. We will also vote on this. ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals for the draft law “On the ban on exhibiting and dismantling of objects famous for Soviet and Nazi regimes in the territory of the Republic of Latvia” – 30 October this year! Please vote mode! ( Internouncing call.) Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 2 June of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 16 June of this year remains in force. Ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on this draft law, we will have provided a wealth of material for history, historians, and researchers in the mood of society. I would also like to say that here, in Saeima's meeting room, there are the hopes selected in Dobele in honour of the centenary of the Latvian Parliament. The ceremony is called ‘Free’. ( Internouncing call.) We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. ( Interfaces: “There must be a break! ” ‘No break?’ ; methacrylics.) We will also decide on the changes to the agenda, and then there will be a 15-minute break. Changes to the agenda adopted by the Saeima Bureau have therefore been submitted. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law” at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Inese Voika to report the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U135	Colleagues! Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Iveta Benhena-Beeken, Aldis Blumbergs, Ilze Indicicsone, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Armands Krauze, Romanas Naudiņš, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns and Atis Zakaistovs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U136	Thank you. Interruption until 16:05 a.m. We will continue to work in Colonel 16.05. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U137	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U138	Welcome, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues, colleagues, sitting viewers and listeners! Today, the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has examined current proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law”. The draft law provides that legal persons should also be allowed to receive remuneration for voluntary accommodation of Ukrainian civilians in order to help cover the related costs. The draft law provides for amendment of Section 7.1 of this Law, which provides that a legal person, who also accommodates one or more Ukrainian civilians free of charge in a dwelling belonging to him, shall be entitled to compensation for additional costs related to accommodation. It's also about... the limited possibilities to integrate into society, ensuring a place of residence and income, the draft law provides for the extension of the provision of primary support - accommodation and catering - for 30 days and states that the total provision of primary support must not exceed 120 days. The Commission, as usual, this draft law... requests support for urgency and, in view of the urgency, will also be asked to examine the draft law at second reading without examination by the Commission. I call for no proposals, because soon it will be open again... Therefore, I now ask the Saeima to support the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U139	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 47, for - no, for - 13. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U140	I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U141	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian civilian support law at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - no, for - 8. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U142	As I have already informed you, the majority of the committee decided to ask the Saeima to support the draft law in the second, final, reading without re-examination by the committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U143	Are Members opposed to final reading of the draft law without re-examination (Interface: ‘No!’ ) in the commission responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Support Law" in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U144	We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” (No. 1487/Lp13) at first reading. The draft law has been prepared by the National Security Commission in cooperation with the National Electronic Media Council, and its aim is to strengthen security and protection of the information space in Latvia. Ensure that no country other than a Member State of the European Union, a State of the European Economic Area, a Member State of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or a Member State of the European Convention on Cross-border Television is distributed within the territory of the Republic of Latvia which undermines or threatens the territorial integrity, sovereignty or national independence of another country, or audiovisual programmes or audiovisual services on request. The draft law provides for the right of the National Electronic Media Council to decide on the restriction of the distribution of such programmes or services. Put simply, the television channels that are being produced are being made... content that is created in these just named geographical locations is not broadcast in Latvia. I try to dispel the concern that channels like... Current Current Time has already been reregistered in the Czech Republic. ‘ The Dždj channel currently holds its license here, with us in Latvia. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs examined the draft law at its meeting on 26 May this year and unanimously supported its direction for consideration by the Saeima at first reading. The Commission decided that the draft law would be dealt with as a matter of urgency. I call on Members to vote for the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U145	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U146	Thank you. I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U147	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U148	Dear Members, I would ask for a deadline not to be fixed and for the draft law to be examined at second reading, if Members do not object, now, at this sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U149	Are Members opposed to the final reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U151	Dear colleagues, Members Juris Pūce, Krišjānis Feldmans, Raivis Dzintars, Kārlis Šadurskis and Atis Zakaitistovs are asked to announce at the sitting on 19 May this year a break from item 41 until 9 a.m. on 2 June this year and to start an examination of the agenda for the sitting on 26 May this year. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Thus, at the Saeima meeting on May 19, the session was suspended until 9 a.m. on June 2, this year. How much time do we need? 10 minutes? Can we get it right away? Five. Five minutes later, i.e. 16.20, we will begin to review the agenda of the meeting on 26 May this year. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-05-26-PT13-2386-U152	Colleagues! Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Uldis Augulis, Iveta Benhen-Beeken, Aldis Blumbergs, Ilze Indriksone, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Armands Krauze, Romanas Naudiņš, Ralfs Nemiro, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vacāns. Thank you. ( Interruption)
