ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We will begin the sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 2 June 2022. First of all, the amendments tabled on the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law on support for the economic consequences of the sanctions and countermeasures imposed by the Russian anti-Ukrainian military aggression to be included on the agenda of the sitting at first reading. The Commission is asking for the draft law to be included as the first item in the agenda of the meeting under the heading ‘Review of draft laws’. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the meeting “On Normunds Dzintaras 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate for the period of time from the National Association “All for Latvia!” - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” Members elected in the constituency of Kurzeme shall perform their ministerial duties.’ The Commission is asking for the draft decision to be put on the agenda as the first item on the agenda. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting “On the consent of the opening of criminal prosecution against 13. Parliamentary Member Martin Bondar and include this draft decision on the agenda as the second item on the agenda. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) “Yes!” ) Please call us! We will be voting in favour of including the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting on consent to criminal prosecution against 13. Parliamentary Member Martin Bondar and include it on the agenda as the second item on the agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The decision has been taken - the draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. Members Jānis Butāns, Sandis Riekstins, Artuss Kaimiņš, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla and Normunds Gunna are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the law “On forced application of educational measures to children””. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Jānis Butāns, Sandis Riekstins, Artuss Kaimiņš, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla and Normunds Gunna are asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Jānis Butāns, Sandis Riekstins, Artuss Kaimiņš, Dagmara Beitnere–Le Galla and Normunds Gunna are asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Law on Facilitated Procedures for the Construction of Wind Power Plants for Energy Security and Independence”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Edvins Šnore, Ivars Puga, Raivis Dzintars, Ritvars Jansons and Jānis Dombrava are asking for the draft law “Amendments to Labour Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes.’) ) So there is. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's 18, it's not. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda of the sitting. The order of business shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union by the General Secretariat of the Council, which shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union by the General Secretariat of the Draft decision on Normund Dzintara 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate for the period of time from the National Association “All for Latvia!” - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” Members elected in the constituency of Kurzeme shall perform their ministerial duties.’ Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U2	Colleagues! At its meeting on 31 May this year, the Board for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima examined Ilze Indicice’s application on 13. the appointment of a member of the Saeima to the term of office of the Minister. Next candidate from National Association “All for Latvia!” - The list of candidates for “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” in the constituency of Kurzeme is Normunds Dzintars, who has agreed to assume the office of Member of the Saeima for a temporary period, as well as has confirmed that he is not subject to restrictions on the office of Member of the Saeima in the electoral law and other laws and regulations of the Saeima. The Commission calls for support to be given to the draft Saeima Decision on Normund Dzintara 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate for the period of time from the National Association “All for Latvia!” - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” Members elected in the constituency of Kurzeme shall perform their ministerial duties.’
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U3	Thank you. I invite Normund Dzintar to make an oath or solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U4	When I, Normunds Dzintars, assume the office of Member of the Saeima, solemnly promises to be faithful to Latvia before the people of Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform his duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U5	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on Normund Dzintara 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate for the period of time from the National Association “All for Latvia!” - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” Members elected in the Kurzeme electoral district shall perform their ministerial duties”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Congratulations to Normunds Dzintars and I invite you to take a place in the Saeima sitting room! (Applause) On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on consent to prosecution against 13. Member of the Saeima Martin Bondar’. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U6	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, On 31 May this year, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 17 and the second paragraph of the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Board of the Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application examined an application from the Prosecutor General’s Office for its consent to the opening of criminal proceedings. 13 Member of the Saeima Mārtiņš Bondaras who has been accused in accordance with Section 275 ‘False of document, seal and stamp and realisation and use of counterfeit document, seal and stamp’. After hearing the representative of the Prosecutor's Office, as well as 13. Member of the Saeima Martin Bondar and his lawyer, members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision of the Saeima on the consent to the opening of criminal proceedings against 13. Preparation of the Saeima Members Mārtiņš Bondaras. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft Saeima decision prepared by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U7	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U8	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! Today, I would like to talk about one very important issue for Latvia, which we are talking about rarely from this troupe. It's about the rule of law. Now, for several days now, the Betles song has been playing in my head: I am back in the USSR. Do you know how lucky you are, boy? I am back in the USSR, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U9	Translate, please go to the official language. The sittings of the Saeima shall be held in the state language - in accordance with the rule of order of the Saeima and our laws and also the Constitution.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U10	I don't know how I can translate this song, but... Well, well, I'll try... I'll try with all my education... “ I am back in the Soviet Union. Do you know how happy I am that I am back in the Soviet Union, boy? Back to the Soviet Union, yes.” Well, that's something. You decide for yourself about the translation. But I could say the following: that all this situation that has developed around me reminds me of a criminal... the documentary story that could be called - "The Wild West meets the East of the 1990s". As an internationally known company, KPMG starts the liquidation of the bank, hires a lawyer or a lawyer who deals with issues in the city in the style of the 1990s and over seven years... I might allow the word "persecuting" to be used... Persecute me and my family. In the past four years, it turns out that some kind of criminal proceedings have been carried out, and now, well lying down like a good wine in a shelf, it is directed to the Saeima. Nice. Nice! The Prosecutor General's Office, the Prosecutor's Office has already influenced the result of the elections - 14. The result of elections to the Saeima. Maybe, however, it's not a prosecutor's office, maybe it's a narrow interest group... they are narrow interest groups that have done so, but on my side they are just assumptions. The prosecutor's office has sent a message to all those who want to... Everyone is invited to take part in the elections. The Public Prosecutor's Office has sent a message to every citizen of Latvia: if you are... Let us see. Finally - the prosecutor's office has sent a message to those who value Latvia as a legal state. That message has been sent. Colleagues! You are not judges or employees of law enforcement institutions. This vote today is more symbolic. It seems to me, however, that the article in the Constitution establishing the parliamentary immunity may have to be changed even in this Saeima, because if the same thing had been changed, this case would not have been raging for four years in the public prosecutor's office and waiting for its time. It would have been examined, tried, and I would at least have the right to defend myself. I don't have that right today. Today, my right to defend my honour and my name has been taken away, is now just a matter of justice. Now it is not a question of whether I can defend myself as a politician, after this, I cannot defend myself as a politician during the pre-election process. So, colleagues, you too... come the elections and you must make the right choice by voting in favour but - but! - I hope that soon there will be “one law – one justice for all” in Latvia. Thank you. ( A few people go round.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U11	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U12	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, Latvian society! Then, during Martin Bondard’s speech, a conversation was held, which found that Betle had one... a more popular song called “Yesterday”. But it's not about songs. It's about the fact that I think... and I have always voted against the extradition of Members, I have also voted against the extradition of my political opponent - Members of Unity - even though it is very likely that Mr Adamovich has been able to extradite his trial. A problem that is not talked about just to please people but which should be talked about is in reality that no Member's immunity exists. It's a fiction. Today's vote is a fiction too, because everyone will vote friendlyly, I will just vote, and that is all. By the way, I have also voted against the extradition of the village... and talked out of the podium. The problem is that the offences are objectively divided into two parts. One of them, for example, is murder. It is clear that a murderer has to sit in prison, and he can be a threat to society. The other is crimes, for example, which cannot be assessed by non-professional legal professionals even when they get acquainted with the case-files. Most Members of the Saeima are not professional lawyers. And such a dispute... I don't know if Mr Bondar is or is not guilty of the specific offence in which he is accused... The problem in Latvia is that the reputation of a person is destroyed by simply declaring that he may be responsible for something in the future. And that's not right. I do not want to defend Mr Bondara, Mr Bondara is in a coalition, my political opponent, and from an organisation that is far from asymptomatic to me, but such formal fiction is simply because it is for selfish purposes (I stress it is for selfish purposes!) at the time. Valdis Zatlers dismissed Parliament after the Saeima failed to extradited one of its members for persecution, leading to the absence of the parliamentary immunity that the law enforcement authorities, including the security services, are the ones who impose, remove politicians, although this should not be the case in the legal state. We will soon be talking about the resignation of Minister Bordan, his connection with those in custody... and so on. There's nothing in the security services, the prosecutor's office and the police - no problem. Here, if we are talking about some perhaps financial irregularities (or perhaps they are civil offences, we do not know perhaps criminal law, or we do not know), we are not capable of knowing not only all the material of the case but also the evidence and the other details of the case... We are not able to judge this. There is therefore an opportunity - there is an objective possibility - that perhaps someone is using it for political purposes, in the fight against political opponents. Today it's Dombrava... and tomorrow is someone else. Tomorrow it's Raivis Dzintars, very probably... Very likely. ( The Hall is an intersacred house.) I have no doubt about it that tomorrow it can be Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U13	I call on you to keep on the same lines of thought and assumptions.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U14	I would also urge you not to get up, but it is possible, Ināra Mūrniece, also in relation to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U15	Thank you. The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U16	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, Chairman of the Saeima! At the very beginning - listening to Alda Gobzem's speech, I am simply admiring this man, who, despite the extent to which there have been repressions against this Member, despite that... as Mr Bondara mentioned, he does not want to return to Soviet times... I didn't survive at that time (I was born in 1988), but I think that if... What I wanted to say at the very beginning is two things - politicians, Members. It seems to me that the entire rule of law ended when Aldim Gobzem was deprived of admission to the state's secret. At that point, the Member who was elected, who received the support of the most voters from the people, was taken away... not taken away, but no permission was granted, despite the fact that this man had not even worked for any day... He couldn't show his abilities and his works... I just... or it was legal at that time - the elected Member was taken away... Is that so? I don't think so. So now we have such a government... Members with criminal prosecution, with all kinds of things and everything else. And about the second, about the rule of law. Okay, politicians. Clearly, we have our head here, we're all fighting, but the other thing I want to say is we must return the presumption... presumption of innocence, because it is very important not only in this building, but also in people waiting for it, entrepreneurs are waiting... ordinary people are waiting because they must always prove that they are not thieves, that they have not violated the law. They have to prove it. Why is this happening in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U17	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U18	Another legal detail. If we issue Mārtiņš Bondar today, as we say, for trial - Mārtiņš Bondar led the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... Mārtiņš Bondars confirmed to me this morning that he had a tolerance to state mystery. Was it then that the relevant criminal proceedings were initiated yesterday? Then there is the question to the security services, the Constitutional Protection Office and the State Security Service: how could the admission to the state secret be in such a situation if criminal proceedings are carried out for a long time? Mārtiņš Bondars says today from the tribunal that such criminal proceedings have been for four years... It's happening. Is this not proof that our security services are engaged in political corruption by granting or granting permission to the country's secretes to whom they want? How is this possible: in a situation where there is criminal proceedings, there is a tolerance to national secrecy in the most important commission? Who is responsible for this? It is the responsibility of the one who is the most important in the country, and it is the President and Prime Minister of Latvia. This proves the mafio-system in which Latvia is located. It lights everything. And that lights our security services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U19	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the consent to criminal prosecution against 13. Members of the Saeima Mārtiņš Bondaras”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the member Kaspars Ģirgena, Ērika Pucena, Ieva Krapāne, Karina Sprūde and Ramona Petraviča refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Electricity Market” to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U20	Dear colleagues, The Covid pandemic and the war in Ukraine have introduced changes in the energy market. There's been chaos. It's already... already in the autumn, we mentioned and made proposals on how prices for gas, electricity, fuel could be reduced. We can see that these prices are not getting lower, they will only rise, and we can only mention what is waiting for us all in the autumn. From last year, I have been actively following the activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs - what support mechanisms and actions could be taken to mitigate this crisis. One of the most important points that I also personally drew attention to is the production of solar electricity. At present, when prices rise rapidly, it may be necessary for the Saeima to finally think that blinds should be opened and lighted up. But for citizens, as one of the solutions I also expected from the Ministry of Economics, but now these proposals are delayed, even though they admitted that they would be submitted to the Saeima in the coming weeks... However, I call on each of you to consider the possibility that we need additional mechanisms to encourage citizens and businesses to install solar panels more and more... and would also think of wind generators. If we compare common statistics in the Baltics, 780 megawati devices from solar panels are now installed. Estonia accounts for 70 percent, Lithuania accounts for 28 percent, and Latvia has only two percent with 18 megawatts. We may not only be at the back of the train, but even more, we try somewhere to get out of here. Therefore, one of my proposals, like that in Lithuania, is that this distribution tariff is not applied, because in reality the citizen or businessman produces electricity; when he does not need so much electricity, he transfers it to distribution networks and, for example, receives back in the evening. Such a mechanism (no compensation is required for, for example, taking back this electricity in the evening) also operates in Lithuania. Recently, we also applied distribution tariffs in this crisis... By 31 April, this has enabled citizens to effectively reduce their bills. This is another way to do this. I, too, from the Ministry of Economics... as they have promised, in the coming weeks they will submit a proposal that everyone - citizens and business alike - will be able to deploy solar panels, for example, on their own land or in a summerhouse... and consume in your apartments. This is another serious step towards facilitating the transition to such a form of electricity generation. That is why I ask of you that we pass this draft law on to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, because we also urgently need to deal with this type of issue, and we need to think not only about the construction of a liquefied gas terminal or wind parks, but also about smaller ways of stimulating... be independent of price fluctuations on the electricity market. I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U21	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Electricity Market” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 49, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the member Kaspars Ģirgena, Ērika Pucena, Ieva Krapāne, Karina Sprūde and Ramonas Petravičs refer the draft law “Amendment to the Construction Law” to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kaspars Ģirgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U22	Colleagues, we can also see from the vote how important it is now to help citizens to reduce their bills. I'm so happy... I'd like to hear... if one of the Members, including the coalition, were to come to the table and tell them when these issues could be dealt with, because rejecting these proposals... What was before... It is understandable that this type of proposal will certainly not take place this summer or perhaps in the autumn. They will be carried out for a later time, but it is necessary to look for solutions already now. These solutions can be many and varied. Only the liquefied gas terminal should not be switched on, but should also be viewed in other directions. One of these directions, which I would also like to offer at the moment (due to the current support mechanisms offered by both the VARAM and the Ministry of Economics), is for citizens to be able to install these panels. It must be understood that this is a short-term event, but I very much hope that it will be continued and supported by such measures, because Latvia, unfortunately, is currently lagging behind, as I mentioned earlier - only two percent of the Baltic market... Just two percent... the panels are installed. Estonia and Lithuania have a lot ahead of us. In Europe, however, too, we are already beginning to discuss the need to introduce such a mandatory measure as renovating or building new houses, placing a renewable resource on them... Let's say, electricity resources... Thus, they are small wind generators or solar panels. This would be the next step to encourage us to become more energy independent and not to worry (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) on these price changes. So my first offer was a reduction in distribution tariffs, which you rejected. This proposal is that we should move towards an autonomous use of electricity specifically for new buildings and renovation of homes. If you reject this one, however, I call on you to work actively on these issues, and I also call on the Ministry of Economics to present these proposals in the near future, because citizens, and especially businesses, are now actively waiting for additional support mechanisms and ways of combating electricity prices in this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U23	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Construction Law” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Andreja Klementyeva, Valeria Agešina, Vitalia Orlova, Ivana Ribakova and Edgars Kucina refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U24	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I believe that today we must talk not about aid, but about compensation to Latvian citizens for the rapid increase in prices of almost all goods and utility tariffs. Pensioners are in a particularly tragic situation, as the process of devaluing pensions is rapidly evolving as a result of high inflation. According to official statistics, inflation has already reached 13 per cent, but for many commodities prices have risen much more: for poultry, prices have risen by 21 per cent, for dairy products by 34 per cent, for pigmeat by 14 per cent, for fish by 16 per cent, and so on. The tariffs for heating, electricity and gas have risen rapidly. Moreover, the impact of inflation on pensioners is higher than that of other population groups, as the main expenditure for seniors is food, medicines, medical services and public utility charges. In particular, it is in these areas that prices are rising at the fastest rate. According to the members of the political group, immediate decisions are needed to compensate pensioners for the difference in the price of goods and services. A week ago we submitted amendments to the Saeima law, which provided for the indexation of pensions twice a year - 1 September and 1 April - but the coalition did not hear us and rejected this draft law. This week, we are coming up with another initiative: encouraging pensioners to return the retirement allowance until 1996. These additional premiums for Latvian pensioners ceased to be paid in 2012 due to the economic crisis, but the crisis ended, the economy started to grow rapidly, but the coalition and the government did not return any additional payments. SASKĀJA raised the issue of length of service allowances several times, and the government of Krišjānis Kariņš promised that this topic would be a priority. The welfare minister, Gatis Eglitis, also said that the issue of bonuses was as important as his agenda. Other officials also promised that the premiums would be returned in 2023. Our group member, Andrejs Klementjevs, insisted that the draft law providing for the renewal of the supplementary premiums should be submitted to the Social and Labour Commission before the adoption of this year's budget and that the law should be approved by the Saeima with its entry into force in 2023, but this was not done. To be honest, there are very great doubts as to whether this promise will be fulfilled next year, so our draft law provides that the premiums will be renewed from 2023 onwards. Currently, 150 thousand Latvian pensioners do not receive a supplement to pensions. According to experts, this additional payment could average EUR 30-40 per month, which in the current situation would be significant financial support for seniors. A gradual return of the pension premium for the length of service until 1996 will prevent unequal treatment. Pensioners with equal length of service currently receive different levels of pensions, which in some cases is related to the period of retirement - before or after 2012. And another COMPARISON proposal. The last payment of 4 × 20 euro benefit granted by the State to pensioners was paid in April. We believe that it is necessary to continue this support, to provide temporary state support to all pensioners and persons with disabilities by introducing EUR 35 from July of this year and for a further six months, i.e. a total of EUR 210 in 2022, in order to be able to pay bills on housing, heat, electricity and other public utility charges. All this complex support for pensioners and persons with disabilities will promote trust in the pension system as a whole and confidence in the state. I call on you to support our draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U25	Are Members opposed to the transmission of the draft law? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 36, against - 50, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Information Systems of the Territories” be submitted to the National Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘Amendment to the law on the forced application of educational measures to children’ presented by Mr. Janis Butāns, Mr. Sanda Riekstiņa, Mr. Artuss Neimina, Mr. Dagmars Beitneres-Le Gallas and Mr. Normunds Gunna’ be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” presented by Mr. Janis Butāns, Mr. Sanda Riekstiņa, Mr. Artuss Kaimina, Mr. Dagmars Beitneres-Le Gallas and Mr. Normunds Gunna be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Law” presented by Mr. Janis Butāns, Mr. Sanda Riekstiņa, Mr. Artus Kaimina, Mr. Dagmars Beitneres-Le Gallas and Mr. Normunds Gunna be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Mr. Judine, you'll talk... Is that so? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Judin: “For”. ) “About” has applied to speak on behalf of Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U26	Colleagues, I will speak 'for' because we have just supported two other draft laws, but I would very much like you to understand what we are voting on and what we are going to decide on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) Yes, we will be voting soon, we will be handing over, then we will consider and accept. But I want to take the opportunity now to talk about the issue. We have criminal penalties, we have invigorating means. One of the coercion measures is the placement of correction at an educational establishment. We have one such institution - the Naukšens - and there are huge problems there. And what do we now have to do? We are proposed not to apply this educational tool until 2024. So for two and a half years there will be no such possibility. I think there will be no major problems in criminal law; we will be able to punish rapers or murderers and impose criminal penalties. But I ask you to take into account that educational measures can be applied from the age of 11. And that means that if a child, at the age of 11, 12 or 13, commits a particularly serious crime, he will not be able to take this educative measure. I am calling for this matter to be really worked on, because what is happening in the Naukšens is terrible, it is unacceptable. But I'm also asking you to think about what we're going to do if we have problems... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U27	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to Labour Law" presented by Member Edvina Šnores, Ivars Pugas, Raivja Dzintars, Ritvars Jansons and Jānis Dombrava be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Edwin Schnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U28	Hello, dear colleagues! Our proposed norms relate to strengthening Latvian language positions in the working environment, protection of employees in Latvia who do not learn Russian. This problem is becoming more acute every year when young people who are not Russian are entering the labour market. The President of Latvia has also pointed out linguistic discrimination in the labour market. The incentiveed norms would prevent the current situation from being unduly demanded in Latvia for foreign language skills right there or for all professions, and people cannot work even the simplest jobs if they do not know Russian. This is a completely abnormal situation and the existing regulatory framework has not been able to resolve it. Therefore, we urge to supplement the Labour Law with the rule that the employer should not require employees to have a foreign language knowledge... employees should not be required to communicate in a foreign language with residents of Latvia, so employees should not be required to know a foreign language. Everyone in Latvia must have the right to communicate with Latvian citizens in the state language without being punished or accused - it is a normal requirement in Latvia - in a country that has been independent for 30 years now, in a country where the people clearly stated in a referendum that the state language in Latvia is only one and that it is Latvian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U29	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The paragraphs are: ‘ Yes.’) ‘Yes’. ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 67, 18, abstain - not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - reports by the Saeima Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the further progress of the 10 211 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Equipment of State and Local Government Road Transport with GSM GPS Tracking Devices””. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? Mr Gobzem, do you have any reservations? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “No.” ) There are therefore no objections. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. The Saeima Presidium has received an own-initiative proposal submitted by Karina Sprūde, Erika Pucena, Ieva Krapāne, Kaspars Ģirgena, Ramona Petraviča, Māra Možvillo, Alda Gobzema, Jānis Dūklava, Māra Kučinska and Didžas Šmitas – the draft decision on state-paid catering for the learners. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( The paragraphs are: ‘ Yes.’) ) And objections? So Members have reservations, so we have to decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. One Member can talk about it, one about it. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U30	Hello, fellow Members, again! I was last week... I went on to say how... I mean, maybe I'd be ashamed to say... poor... because from poverty, I think many are shy and trying to obey that it's hard for them that refrigerators are empty, because it's not the thing to be proud of, that the family lacks something. And sometimes that middle layer obeys. I know you want some targeted help. The families of the poor and the poor may receive free lunch at school. But I remember my classmates who had no status because the family was ashamed, they were ashamed to go to social service and pray, just pray. They caught the fact that they were asking... that you need to work more... And those kids had, for example, been given some 20 rewards to buy a arrow. And these children told me: “Karina, you don’t even know how much we want to be poor and less provided to get a hot lunch! It's cool, but it wants to be wide with potatoes, kottles and salads... “ I don’t know how you can laugh at people knowing that we are in an economic crisis! I do not know why we are not yet declaring an emergency situation in the country. We're... Already in the spring, people spent all of their savings on the payment of public utility services and the management of homes. All the savings have already been spent. And now “Riga House Manager” and everyone else says: we now need to accumulate, because we have to prepare for autumn and winter, because these tariffs will double, and food - double... The range in the store will fall. We don't need four types of rice, we don't need four types of pasta... Then I also agree that we don't need so much in the Saeima... Can also halve... Why do we have so many Members who represent people? ( Internouncing call.) Let us all be equal so that people eat and eat food on instructions? Do we really need to laugh at people by humiliating themselves and telling them how to eat what to eat? I don't know. I tell my child that I need three things: “Dad, don’t worry, learn languages, read books and sports!” And she tells me that you still have to eat healthily: “I am taught in a kindergarten that you need to eat healthily.” It is clear that a child cannot provide it on his or her own, and it must be done by his or her parents. They now need not only to pool funds to prepare their children for school in September, but also to think in good time whether he will receive lunch at school or not. Parents work until 5: 00 p.m., 6 p.m. at school, and they end at 2: 00 p.m. If there's a crowd, it's good. And the payments for the groups are also very different. There is one fee in Riga, in Limbaži - another fee. Sometimes when I speak to people, they say, “Karina, you must live in another world.” Now I'm sorry. Of course, if all the time, every day, you walk in a jacket, no one will come to talk to you. Where are you, and where are we... But on September 1, kids will go to school... And just today... I'm listening that we were publicly announced... However, we have such a crisis... Over a hundred years, we... Fewer children are born... Well, if fewer children are born... Well, we can't feed. I am not talking about the fact that we invited refugees and cannot feed them. Primitive things cannot be guaranteed. After Maslov's pyramid... Well, I'm sorry, you under the table... and we can provide some soup bowl for our citizens. It's shameful. I've ever thought: 5,000 euros... birth allowance... Well, it's a huge amount of money... It's very populist... How can you give such a huge... We are an irresponsible nation. A if an alcoholic is going to get 5,000 euros... Now we're... Now let us increase poverty... With EUR 5000... Well, once again, yes, it would perhaps be a populist offer, but... See how you waste funds... on beds for 600 thousand euros... Now airBaltic will give you how much? 40 million more? Apart from that you've already allocated 250 million... or how much. There's so much money, so much, and we can't pay for the weekend. It's shameful! I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U31	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U32	Last year 17 400 children were born in Latvia. This is 132 children, or 0.8 percent less than in 2020; in 2020 it was the lowest in the last 100 years. I will remind you that for 30 years Latvians have been in power in Latvia – from Unity, from “New Time”, from the National Association “All for Latvia!” - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK”, KP (because Bordāns was some kind of secretary there)... Not Putin, not Merkel or Trumps, not Moscow Russian or “Western banks”... Young friends, but it is these Latvians who destroy Latvia. It is precisely because of these Latvians - from Unity, National Association, BIP - that children are no longer born in Latvia. Latvia dies because children are not taken care of here. Here we take care of stones, here we take care of temples and flags, not children's holidays. And that's the whole answer. The answer is that Latvians are destroyed. Those in the Saeima and those in power. And that surprises me. It surprises me... in our society. I am surprised that there is a desire to live in a rich, prosperous country with a positive relationship between birth and death. By the way, last year's dead was twice as many as the born. And it is not only the responsibility of these Members; it is the responsibility of society as a whole, which allows such Members to be in power; it allows these Members not to vote in favour of children's weekends; it allows our education system not to be improved and it gives priority to absolutely pointless disputes about who the stone is and which tape is more correct. There can be no stone, no tape; only care for a particular living being - human - can be more correct. The only proof of patriotism is human concern. Caring for a child at school, adult work and old age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on state-paid catering for learners on the agenda of the next sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -41, against -42, abstaining -4. The draft decision shall not be placed on the agenda of the next meeting. Are there any proposals for transferring the draft decision to one of the commissions? Please the microphone member Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U34	I propose that the budget and financial (tax) commission be transferred.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U35	Which one, please, the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U36	Budget and financial (tax) commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U37	Budget and financial (tax) commission. So there is a proposal to refer the draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft decision - the own-initiative proposal on state-paid meals for learners to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft decision is not forwarded to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The draft decision is rejected. Thank you. Next, the Bureau report on the own-initiative proposal. Thus, members of the Saeima Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo, Ieva Krapāne, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ēriks Pucens, Aldis Gobzems, Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Inguna Rībena and Ralfs Nemiro have submitted a draft decision – the own-initiative proposal “On public health and the ban of the event “Riga Pride””. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Interface: “There are objections! ” ) There are objections. So we will have to decide on the agenda for the next sitting. One Member may speak about this, and one Member may speak against it. ‘ Ramona Petraviča, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U38	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The government and the Ministry of Health have repeatedly tried to prove that they listen to the views of scientists, follow their advice and focus on public health. Allowing the government to prove this and taking into account the epidemiological situation regarding monkeypox, I call on the government to assess the risks and, if necessary, to prohibit the organisation of Riga Pride. It should be noted that the threat of monkeypox is not the same in all groups of society and, according to our country's epidemiologist Perevosčikov, at the press conference of the Ministry of Health... and I quote here from Perevoschikov: “The majority of the sick are young men who showed that they had had sex with other men before they became infected, and sometimes they had a high number of partners. ” I'm done with the quote. So this is not unverified information, this is not a fiction. In addition, by collecting publicly available information, it is clear that monkey tanks are spreading most rapidly in areas where gay proportions are the highest. For example, 80,000 people participated in the Maspalomas Pradida, which was visited by gays, where one of the largest cases of disease was observed. At international level... If, however, Latvian scientists were not interested in listening to the government, then the World Health Organization has created material on monkeypox directly in the group of bisexual men and gays, because much of the cases in Belgium, Italy, Spain and other countries are... spread directly into these municipalities. An epidemiologist from the UK Health Security Agency and... The Disease Control and Prevention Centre of the United States of America also confirms the prevalence of smallpox among gays. All these events involving gays and bisexuals (these are fetish festivals, gay clubs, gay saunas, praids and so on) are similar to Riga’s praid, and therefore it is likely that the same thing will happen again in Latvia. We need to understand that, in the sense of the organisers, such events manifest homosexuality. And it is expected that guests, visitors from abroad will come to the Riga Pride as well, so there is no reason to believe that monkey tanks will not come here or will become infected by a couple of people. But when they come into contact with others, they are likely to get a significant proportion of people, because during the pass there are activities such as kissing, holding hands and other activities that would be easy to carry on a monkey container... If the aim is still to protect public health, the organisation of a pass should be very carefully considered and assessed for all risks, otherwise it would be gross negligence and deliberate public exposure to health... the risk. At the moment when such a sexuality manifesto threatens public health, Riga Pride would be very carefully evaluated, and if the risks of an outbreak of a pandemic are seen, then it is necessary to decide on the cancellation of the pass. I would like to remind you that on 12 March 2020 an emergency situation was declared in the country due to the Covid-19 outbreak and 16 people were infected at that time. So, so that we don't come back to the fact that we have to close all the institutions and make people subject to compulsory vaccination... Please support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U39	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U40	Latvian society! If I'm honest, I don't care what's going on -- like or like that. But I wrote this document for a very simple reason: that everyone and everyone should enjoy the medicines with which these people have "treated" other people, namely all those politicians and those in the community who support various iris moves, forgetting the epidemiological safety, should remind them that these people were passionately prohibiting otherwise from coming together, using a very bad argument that this was a threat to public health. And for this very reason, this is a very fine proposal to enlightene the fact that discrimination is, in fact, when it is forbidden to buy children's toys in a shop or to ban the same antivacs from coming together and protesting against restrictions; when it is forbidden for a Member to meet his constituents and not to smile, Mrs Golubeva! That is your responsibility. And exactly the same arguments are applicable to the participants in the pass. However, it is not such a warm time in Latvia and our health and safety can also be threatened. There's nothing with bare bottoms in such a cool time to ride around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U41	Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On the ban on public health and the event “Riga Pride”” on the agenda of the next sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -18, against -42, refrains - not. The draft decision shall not be placed on the agenda for the next sitting. Are there any proposals to hand it over to one of the commissions? ( Internouncing call.) Please the microphone member Gobzem. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems has no sound on the microphone.) Please... Please turn on the microphone to Member Gobzem!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U42	One, two, three... I can tell you without a microphone.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U43	No, name one commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U44	the Education and Science Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U45	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft decision to the Education, Culture and Science Commission – the own-initiative proposal “On the ban on public health and the event “Riga Pride””, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 19, it's against 42, it's not. The draft decision is rejected. Thank you. Next, reports by the Bureau on the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Uldis Augūlims on 26 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ulds Augiels requesting unpaid leave on 26 May this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Kārlis Šadurskis on 2 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Kārlis Šadurskis requesting unpaid leave on 2 June this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. According to the Office of the SRSG on Children and Armed Conflict, he was responsible for recruitment and use of children under the control of the ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U46	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting. Dear colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission has examined the draft law on support for the economic consequences of the sanctions and countermeasures imposed by the Russian anti-Ukrainian military aggression (No. 1477/ Lp13). This draft law is designed to establish a set of support measures and funding arrangements for economic operators affected by the consequences of Russian military aggression. The draft law provides that economic operators affected by the consequences of Russian military aggression in terms of demand reduction, termination of existing contracts, reduction of turnover, disruption of supply chains, price increases and restriction on future investments will be eligible for the aid. The draft law provides for the following support mechanisms: in the form of loans, guarantees, including export guarantees, or equity investments. In the Commission, this draft law was supported and called for its urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U47	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on support for the economic consequences of the sanctions and countermeasures imposed by the Russian anti-Ukrainian military aggression! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U48	I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U49	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on support for the economic consequences of the sanctions and countermeasures imposed by the Russian anti-Ukrainian military aggression at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U50	So the deadline is 15 minutes. And the second reading - Saeima at the sitting of 2 June this year, that is, this same sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U51	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes until 10.30 a.m. on 2 June this year. Review - Saeima at its meeting on 2 June this year. Draft law “On the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Austria on the Promotion of Investment Promotion and Protection of the Republic of Austria”, second reading. Member Atis Lejiņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U52	Dear Bureau! Members! We are examining the draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Austria on the Promotion of Investment and Protection of the Republic of Austria (No. 1389/Lp13). Only one proposal was received by the commission responsible. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This was about Article 4, which included “and German”. The Legal Bureau recommended to strip “and German” because it is not necessary simply, enough Latvian. Therefore, Article 4 reads: “A Latvian Agreement must be announced in accordance with the law.” I call on you to accept it in the second and final...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U53	Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U54	Thank you. That's it. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U55	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “On the Agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Austria on the Promotion of Investment and Protection of the Republic of Austria” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Changes to the agenda of the Bureau meeting have been submitted to the honourable Members. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems, Edgars Tavars, Viktors Valainis, Ieva Krapāne, Kaspars Ģirgens and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals in the draft law on civil union” (No. 1380/Lp13) for the third reading until 29 October 2022.’ ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U56	Dear colleagues, We call on us not to look at the draft Civil Union Law today and also in this Saeima. We know that this draft law is about a scandal, and this scandal has overshadowed the adoption of this draft law and its entry to the third reading to this parliamentary sitting. Unfortunately, the other side - our opponents - pretends to be all right, they pretend to be invisible and unheard of, even though a counter-check has now been launched in connection with possible illegality in the course of the adoption of this draft law by the Legal Commission. We understand, however, that the process of adopting such a draft law is absolutely unacceptable, and if it were adopted and led to the third reading, for example, the draft law on the protection and strengthening of the family, then very loud protests from our opponents would be heard and both the transmission time would be fulfilled... who unfortunately did not have time all this time to announce that the people were collecting signatures for strengthening the definition of the family in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia... And so would all judges who now want to lead the state and who believe that neither the Saeima nor the nation, which is the supreme decision-making power, are needed anymore, against the fact that this is the way the draft law cannot be adopted. We are therefore calling for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals, 29 October, which means that the next Saeima, which we hope will be elected in good faith and without mistakes, as has happened in the case of a separate political power... that the next Saeima will be able to decide objectively - whether such a draft law is necessary or not for Latvia at all. Because we see that this composition of the Saeima is unfortunately made up of Members who have deceived their voters, and this mandate was deceived in bad faith. That is why we are calling, colleagues, today to decide that the draft law on civil union is being extended and does not see it, because this draft law is a possible shadow of corruption, it does not honor either the Saeima or the leaders of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U57	Are there any objections to the inclusion of this draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? ( Interfaces: “There are objections! ” ) Colleagues, we will vote in favour of putting the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the draft law on Civil Union (No. 1380/Lp13) to include the third reading until 29 October 2022 on the agenda of the Seimas sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 39, refraining from - 1. The draft decision shall not be placed on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - draft law on civil union, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns. But, honourable colleagues, the Saeima Bureau has received the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Janis Iesalnieks, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švekova and Inguna Rībena's proposal to return the draft law “Law on Civil Union” to the Legal Commission. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U58	Dear colleagues, If the majority of the Saeima, as we have seen, has just decided to look at this draft law in the vote, then we urge the draft law to be referred back to the Legal Commission in order to eliminate possible irregularities in the course of the adoption of this draft law at third reading. We call for it to be returned. And it would also be the right step in front of those Members who are now pretending that nothing has happened in the Legal Commission and who... One of them, I understand, must also give evidence... give evidence of what was seen at the time of the so-called technical break of this Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U59	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U60	I call for the vote to be taken against all those who support corruption, because the examination of the draft law on civil union in the Legal Commission and the vote by the Member, who was already a former Member, at the time of the vote clearly point to corruption, clearly points to the influence of Members, which also makes clear the involvement of the Head of this Commission in this corrupt action, namely, Mr Bhutan from the Conservative involvement in this transaction, because to put an end to the vote and to start voting again after a fictitious technical problem when there was no problem in reality... All those who voted against heard very clearly in this remote sitting. It would be right to vote once again on this issue in the Legal Commission to remove all doubts about the fact that there has been a corrupt transaction, which has been carried out objectively, so I call for a return to the Commission so that this time the Commission will vote without technical failure and move to the Saeima and does not harm the prestige of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U61	Colleagues, we must therefore vote in favour of returning the draft law to the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of returning the draft law “Law on Civil Union” to the commission responsible for law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 40, for - 1. The proposal is therefore not supported and the draft law is not returned to the Legal Commission. Colleagues, let's look at the bill after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! The name of the announcement to Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U62	Dear members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) Honourable members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! In Colonel 10.32 let us start the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U63	Name for the statement to Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U64	Colleagues! I call on you right now in the Yellow Hall to establish a group for cooperation and support with democratic Belarus. The leader of the Democratic Belarus, Svjatlan Cihanouska, has asked the European Parliaments to set up such a group, and we want to refer to it in the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. I'm waiting for you in the Yellow Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U65	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U66	Colleagues! A little bit of attention! Ambassador of Ukraine Oleksandr Mischenko tomorrow, June 3, at 2.30 p.m. invites the Congress House (Krišjāņa Valdemāra iela 5) to the opening of the photo exhibition “A hundred days for Ukraine’s war”... against this military aggression of Russia. So please attend at 2.30 p.m. tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U67	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U68	Hello, colleagues! This Communication concerns the Baltic Sub-Commission and the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly. As we agreed at 10.40 a.m. in the Yellow Hall, we are continuing the Tuesday sitting with a vote on the candidates to the Baltic Assembly medals this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U69	Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U70	Colleagues! Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Jānis Butāns... John Butan is... Anda Čakša, Rihards Kols, Ivan Ribakov and Kārlis Šadurskis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U71	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U72	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law on civil union, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U73	Hello, colleagues! We're going on after the break. The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Law on Civil Union” (No. 1380 Lp13) before the third reading. Together we have examined 11 proposals. 1. - The legal commission's proposal. Proposal for a legal instrument Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U74	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U75	Hello, colleagues! We learned last Sunday that the Anti-Corruption Office has launched a counter-terrorism check on the possible illegal influence of Member Aivars Geidans in the vote in the Legal Commission. Therefore, I would call on those who are not conceptually in favour of this draft law, but those who support it, but do not want it to be any kind of, say, the shadow of the law, without voting in favour of any of these proposals, without voting in favour of the draft law as a whole, but expect the results of the review of the KNAB, in order to really remove this shadow of doubt and the Saeima could not condemn any, say, possible illegal decision-making. So that I call on both opponents and supporters to respect the rule of law and to expect the results of the KNAB's counter-test. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U76	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U77	I would like to mention a number of things, colleagues and society. The first case is the following: therefore, the relevant application to the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption. ( Milestones.) I wrote this application, signed by Julija Stepanenko and signed by Edgars Tavars, but Jānis Iesalnieks refused to sign it, by the way. It will take note of the fact that society as a whole is aware of this. In fact, such a draft law would not be found in Parliament and would not be dealt with at third reading if the National Association did not, in fact, covertly support this government, which is leading the draft law in question. In fact, these activities are also possible with the support of the National Union. It is very important to say this, because there is no art at the first to climb the trigger and say that we need to consider KNAB's application, but when it has to be signed, the tail is on the foot. That's right, Mr. Izalnieks. The second item is the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U78	Colleagues, however, for proposal 1, please, for proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U79	The second item is the vote. So, society as a whole needs to understand - absolutely all those who vote against today or will abstain... The situation today is that all votes against and abstentions will be votes in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U80	Colleagues, for proposal 1, please. Maybe...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U81	The same applies to proposal 1. Anyone who will vote 'no' and abstain will, in principle, vote 'yes', especially I am looking in the direction of the people who are going to vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U82	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U83	In the Commission, proposal 1 is supported. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U84	Members (Interfaces: “Vote!” )... Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 39, for - no, for - 1. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 39, for - no, for - 1. Interruption 10 minutes - by 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U85	Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the sitting of the Saeima after a break. On the agenda - draft law on civil union, third reading. We remained on proposal 1. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U86	Colleagues! I can just remind you that the first proposal is that, in advance, at second reading, we decided to replace the word "party" by "participant", and in this proposal, the word "party" is also legally correct throughout the rest of the law... already at second reading. I therefore call for support to be given to 1. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U87	So I would remind you that Members had spoken in the debate on 1. - a proposal submitted by the Legal Commission. This means that we need to vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - no, for - 1. ( Milestones.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - no, for - 1. ( Interface: “There is no quorum! ” ) Thus, there is no quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Rule 48 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, this sitting of the Saeima is closed. The parliamentary Bureau will place the remaining items on the agenda on the agenda of the parliamentary sittings. We will continue today. After five minutes, we will move on to the agenda of the sitting which was not held by the Saeima on 26 May. So in five minutes' time, we will continue the agenda for this year's meeting on 26 May. The break is planned at the usual time - from 12.30 to 13.30. The Saeima Bureau shall place items on the agenda for the remainder of the sitting on the agenda of the Saeima. So we're going on today. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name For Inese Voika to read the registration results. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U88	Colleagues! Not registered: Valery Agešins, Aldis Blumbergs, Anda Čakša, Aldis Gobzems (Dep. A. Gobzem: “I am!” )... Aldis Gobzems is (Dep. A. Gobzem: “However, there is!” )... Andrejs Klementyevs, Rihards Kols, Regina Ločmele, Ivans Ribakovs, Kārlis Šadurskis and Jānis Urbanovičs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-06-02-PT13-2388-U89	Thank you. Interruption until 11.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
