ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We will begin the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on February 28, 2022. Dear colleagues, Honorable citizens of Latvia! Rit Ukraine's Defence War on the fifth day. Ukrainian soldiers and Ukrainian people defend their homeland. Let us, for a moment of silence, honour the memory of the fallen Ukrainian soldiers and patriots who have died in defending Ukraine, defending values that are important for the Ukrainian people in defending their homeland. Glory to Ukraine! Glory to the heroes! ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. On the agenda of today's sitting - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Law on National Security presented by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have not applied. There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And we start to look at it at first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U2	Dear colleagues, In view of the current situation and the fact that now there is every hour of weight, the Saeima Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission met yesterday, Sunday, evening and urgently drafted this draft law together with the institutions - the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior - in consultation with, of course, the Saeima Legal Bureau. The aim of the draft law is to amend Section 3.1(1) of the Law on National Security by providing for an exception to the ban on citizens of the Republic of Latvia from serving in foreign armed forces by extending this exception to Ukraine. So the draft law has been drafted in connection with the military conflict in Ukraine caused by the Russian Federation and provides an opportunity for our people who want to volunteer to help Ukraine... so that they can do so without legal consequences. As we know, according to the decree signed by the President of Ukraine on 27 February 2022, a Ukrainian international territorial protection unit has been set up, which will be composed of foreigners who wish to participate in the release of the Russian military attack against Ukraine. In accordance with this decree, in order to register in an international territorial protection unit, it is provided that persons may refer the matter of protection to the Embassy of Ukraine of their country. At the same time, the exception provided for in this draft law does not apply to citizens of the Republic of Latvia who are involved in the military activities on the territory of Ukraine in the armed forces or separatist structures of the Russian Federation or who are engaged in activities aimed at undermining the state independence and sovereignty of Ukraine. Such persons are subject to the prohibition laid down in Article 3.1 of the National Security Act and to the liability laid down in the Criminal Law, in accordance with the procedures previously established. At the same time, in order to provide information about the service of citizens of the Republic of Latvia abroad, the draft law provides for supplementing the transitional provisions of the National Security Law with point 20. This paragraph provides that persons wishing to commence a service in Ukraine shall notify the National Armed Forces' Administration for Mobilization and Recruitment by sending a registered letter or electronic letter signed by a secure electronic signature indicating the name, personal identification number and type of service of the person concerned. The address of the Joint Staff of the National Armed Forces Mobilization and recruitment administration will be available on the website of the Ministry of Defence on the Internet; there will also be more detailed information on how volunteers could specifically go to help Ukraine. The draft law also provides for the entry into force of the law on the day following its publication. The draft law has been approved by the Commission. In view of the very rapid change in the situation - the situation develops in hours! - The Commission is asking for urgency to be established for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U3	Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U4	Colleagues, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U5	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U6	In accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 92 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the committee has not set a deadline for the second reading of the draft law and is asking for this urgent draft law to be examined at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U7	The procedure section is turned on. Do Members have objections to the second, final, reading of the draft law without re-examination by the commission responsible? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the National Security Law" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Law on Citizenship, tabled by the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us start with this at first reading. Member Juris Rancāns on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U8	Good afternoon, colleagues! So this draft law is also closely linked to the situation in Ukraine and is also closely related to the previous draft law. Its aim is to amend Articles 12 and 24 of the Law on Citizenship by providing that the service in the armed forces of Ukraine should not be regarded as a circumstance limiting the right of a person to acquire Latvian citizenship by naturalisation or as a reason for the withdrawal of Latvian citizenship, because, as we know, unlawful participation in armed conflict is currently according to the norms of the Law on National Security and also the norms of the Law on Citizenship. By making these amendments, we are removing the legal consequences of the fact that citizenship of persons who wish to participate in the defence of Ukraine on a voluntary basis could be deprived. So, colleagues... in addition, the draft law provides that it shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. And in view of the change in the situation every hour, the Commission asks for the urgency of this draft law to be determined.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U9	Thank you. Members have not applied for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Citizenship”! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start with this at first reading. Member Juris Rancāns on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U10	Colleagues, the Commission is asking to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U11	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Citizenship". Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U12	Like a previous draft law, the Commission has not set a deadline for the submission of proposals under Rule 92, third paragraph, of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and is asking for this urgent draft law to be examined at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-02-28-PT13-2365-U13	Do Members have objections to the second, final, reading of the draft law without re-examination by the commission responsible? Members have not applied. There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Citizenship" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the agenda of the sitting. Members' registration is over. I therefore closed the remote emergency sitting on 28 February this year. Thank you for your work.
