ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Saeima! Good morning, Mr. President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Dear colleagues, We will begin the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 27 January 2022. On the agenda, reports by the Prime Minister, ministers and other officials. Annual report by the Foreign Minister on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U2	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Your Honorary Saeima Office! Sir, Dear Members! Honourable Members! Excellency and all remotely present! The international security situation is dangerously fragile. The distrust and value gap between countries has become enormous. The impact on the development of the international situation is left behind by geopolitical rivalry – the opposition to democracy and authoritarianism, the increase in inequality and polarisation, and the worsening of hybrid threats. Today, part of the world is under threat and intimidation. The non-legislative regime of Belarus continues to attack the eastern border of the European Union and NATO through artificial migration flows. Russia is pursuing a confrontational and revisionist foreign policy which, together with the concentration of troops on the Ukrainian border, poses a threat to the entire region of unprecedented military escalation in recent years. The Romantic period after the Cold War is over. Currently, in many parts of the world there is a renaissance of authoritarian regimes. The fight for democratic values and the rule of law has resumed. Latvia, like the rest of the Baltic States, is currently in the institutionally most stable situation. There is no better alternative to our membership of NATO and the European Union. However, security is a process and not a destination that can be relaxed. The historical experience of Latvia and the wider region makes many minds and hearts restless. We often hear questions about whether we will be given or whether our fate will not be determined by the powers of the world. I am sure there will be no new Munich or new Yalta. We won't. We will not be given if we do not give ourselves, if we are loyal to our country and its values, our allies and our friends. We will not be given if we take care of our own security. It is therefore particularly important for Latvia to stand firm in the community of democratic countries, maintain and cherish fundamental values and reject attempts to divide the world and Europe into spheres of influence. No neutrality or indecision is possible at present. Soon, in February, joint exercises between the Russian and Belarusian armed forces will take place near the western and southern border of Belarus. We are also currently experiencing a particularly hostile rhetoric and action by the Russian and Belarusian regimes, including a significant concentration of military forces on the Ukrainian borders. Cyber attacks are taking place against neighbouring countries as well as European Union and NATO Member States. This situation only worsens the security situation in our region. ‘ I am convinced that more than all Russians appreciate strength and the least respect for weakness, especially military weakness. And therefore the outdated power balance doctrine is not appropriate.” These are the words of Winston Churchill in Fulton in 1946. And they're just as topical today. That is why, if an invasion takes place in Ukraine, Latvia will strongly support the immediate imposition of new sanctions against Russia. Even now, we are providing support to the Ukrainian armed forces. Today we are already working on the expansion and strengthening of NATO forces in the region for the security and defence of the entire Baltic region. Ladies and gentlemen! The main priority and tasks of the entire foreign service this year are security, state independence, territorial integrity and economic development. In December, an important meeting of NATO foreign ministers was held in Riga. It was in Riga that work started on the development of NATO's strategic concept. It is symbolic that this process began in the north-east of NATO – Latvia, Riga. And will end in the south-west of NATO – Spain, Madrid, where the summit of the Heads of State of the Alliance will take place this summer. NATO’s mission – protection of NATO territory, population and values – remains and remains the same. NATO will be an effective alliance if allies are convinced that working together is the most effective way to ensure the security of each of us and the implementation of this joint task. The most effective way to achieve this is through deterrence policies. For several years now, NATO's policy of deterrence, together with our National Armed Forces, has been effectively pursued in Latvia by the expanded NATO presence battle group. The presence of the Battle Group in Latvia is a clear indication of solidarity, determination and ability of allies to defend the people and territory of Latvia against any possible aggression. NATO Allies shall deploy additional military forces and equipment on their eastern flank on the basis of the overall risk assessment. The Canadian forces in Latvia represent a third of the member states of the Alliance, ready to respond effectively and consistently to any kind of threat. I would like to thank Canada, Albania, Iceland, the Czech Republic, Italy, Montenegro, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain, which are currently making a significant contribution to the security of Latvia and the whole region. We also need to strengthen our own borders, protect our cyberspace and information space. These are Latvia's own immediate works. We need to increase the cost of protection to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product. It is therefore necessary to increase funding for both defence and internal security, for the legal system, for national border guards and for national security authorities in the coming years. Internal and external security are indivisible. Ladies and gentlemen! For the regimes of authoritarian and totalitarian states, covering and justifying the actions of their leaders against both citizens and other sovereign states, the usual practice has become a pretext for threatening their sovereignty. The next step is well known to everyone. Opponents are destroyed with imaginary threats to their security, with excuses for the activities of foreign agents or with counter-terrorism operations. For example, in 2021, Russian and Belarusian ruling regimes have pursued targeted repression of the political opposition and of civil society, both inside and outside their country. Aggressive rhetoric cannot hide the truth. Not Georgia attacked Russia in 2008, and not Ukraine in 2014 attacked Russia – quite the opposite. It is not NATO that is stationing soldiers and armaments at the Russian border. It is Russia, which is currently carrying out extensive military manoeuvres. Ukraine does not threaten Russia. Ukraine wants a peaceful, democratic, European future for its citizens. Latvia will strongly support and support Ukraine. We do this because Ukraine has the right to be independent, because peace in Ukraine means peace in Europe and the first line of European defence starts in Ukraine. Honourable Members! On 23 May last year, Belarus's decision to hijack and land a civil aviation flight in Minsk, the detention of journalist Romana Protasevičs and Sofia Sapega is a striking example of the regime's self-governing. The atrocities committed by the Belarusian security forces against their citizens – the Belarusian opponents – are also continuing. In recent years, Russia has also done so, eliminating people inconvenient to the regime beyond Russia's borders. At the moment, there is no indication of any future change in the behaviour of these two regimes. Rather, the generally accepted norms of international relations are openly ignored and ridiculed. Alexey Navalny's case is not about the Russian citizen Navalny. It is about the rule of law, human rights and the use of internationally prohibited chemicals against people who think otherwise. Alexey Navalny has to be free. Russian civil society must be free. The liquidation of the Human Rights Organisation Memorial, founded by Andrejs Sakharov, of the Nobel Peace Prize beneficiary, and the accusations made against it, are politically motivated. Unfortunately, the persecution of Memorial, as in the case of Navalya, is not an isolated case. It is part of a targeted campaign by the Russian authorities against freedom of expression in Russia, maintaining pressure and repression against civil society, non-governmental organisations, independent media and the political opposition, which expresses a different view. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to stand up for Russian and Belarusian civil society by coordinating support for victims of human rights violations, strengthening media freedom and promoting democratic change in these countries. I would like to thank Latvian NGOs for their tireless support to civil society and citizens in these countries. Thank you for your work. Honourable Members! Russia is an authoritarian state with a revisionist policy. Russian political and military leadership lives in the sentiment of the USSR and the world looks through this prism. Russia aims to restore the empire model within its historical boundaries. Russia is trying to challenge the way of life of democratic countries, in particular by challenging the concepts of international human rights standards and the rule of law. The complex relationship between the Euro-Atlantic area and Russia has been in existence for more than 10 years. Since the illegal annexation of Crimea and the destabilisation of eastern Ukraine, tensions have been dangerously high. The events around the Russian-Ukrainian border in recent weeks have continued to increase this tension, which may result in armed actions against Ukraine by Russia or its mercenaries. Russia is Latvia's largest neighbour and, at the same time, our largest political challenge. We have no illusions – we know our neighbour and have experienced Russian behaviour for centuries, it has been particularly violent against our people in the 20th century. The history of Latvia clearly demonstrates its belonging to Europe and its European values through the centuries. The collapse of the Soviet Union was one of the best events of the 20th century, among many Bolsheviks and the nations thrown into prison to return to freedom and European nations. At the moment, we see attempts by Russia at international level to review the historical role of the Soviet Union, excluding attention from its crimes and irregularities. We are clearly aware that neither the history of 1918 nor the history of 1940 nor 1991 is a history. We see attempts to revise the principles on which the world's geopolitism is based after the Cold War and to return to the principles of pre-war influence division. Historical analogys are the basis for today's ambitions. In the case of Latvia, attempts to rewrite our history from the Kremlin are mostly nothing more than attempts to question the sovereign choice of the Latvian people and the presence of Latvia in the European and transatlantic community. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done a lot to explain our history and past to allies... as well as in our diameter, for which a sense of historical consciousness and identity is very important for maintaining ties with Latvia. In the future, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will pay due attention to the interpretation of our past, our history outside Latvia. It is not only of great cultural or intellectual importance, but also of real-political significance. Unfortunately, there is no sign that Russia will change its behaviour in the coming years. Russia's political and military leadership is continuing to fight against the ghosts of its own imagination. Russia is consistently pursuing a confrontational foreign policy, and last year this is a strong testimony not only to the neighbouring countries, but also to the outermost regions: the Western Balkans, the Middle East, Africa, North America and South America. All these years, Latvia has adopted a realistic approach to relations with Russia, both regionally and globally. It is important to maintain open channels of communication, both in bilateral relations and within international organisations, by presenting strong positions and expressing a clear view of them. These are issues where cooperation is possible in the case of mutual interest. In other words, a well-designed cooperation strategy with Russia is not only possible but also necessary. International arms control, global climate change, trade, the issue of non-proliferation and disarmament of Iran – these are just some of the issues on which we need to cooperate. We are also ready to continue our cooperation on the key challenges for our region in the format of the Baltic Sea Council of States. Dear Members of the sitting! In today's world, cyber attacks, hybrid threats, climate change, economic uncertainty and disinformation, the side effects of the development of various new technologies are one of the manifestations of threats to global security. China is not just a region of Asia and the Pacific; China is also a global factor. China is continuing to strengthen its self-sufficiency and is increasingly using different instruments to achieve geopolitical objectives. The European Union and Latvia will continue their active work both in defending respect for human rights in China and in maintaining regional and global balance. Last year, it has been highlighted that both China and Russia want to influence certain Member States of the European Union, as it is a way of achieving their national interests and geopolitical objectives. Latvia has consistently followed and will continue to follow the ‘one China’ policy. We are ready to further develop constructive cooperation with China, but we cannot accept China's pressure on one of the Member States of the European Union – Lithuania. We believe that the European Union should be more active in supporting its Member State. Dear Members! Honourable Members! Excellency! The involvement of Latvia's foreign policy in new international organisations has been a particularly important place. The most important thing within these institutions is to see the purpose of our country's membership. In Latvia's foreign policy, values are not just poetic. Owning a community of democratic values, trust in the principles of international law and participation in international organisations has a direct impact on the security and sovereignty of our country as a whole. The United Nations have come on the first lines of the Latvian foreign policy agenda. Such a process has facilitated both Latvia's candidate for UN Security Council seat in 2026-2027. the period of the year and the nominations of representatives of Latvia for various UN posts. It is particularly pleased that last year Latvian legal officer Mārtiņš Paparinskis was elected to the UN Commission on International Law. It is a great diplomatic event of Latvia that will contribute to strengthening the rule of law on a global scale. The goal defined by Latvia to participate in the UN is to strengthen international legal order, which is dominated by norms of international law, not by force politics and interests of the powers. As the most important regional human rights organisation, the Council of Europe has historically played an important role in the process of restoration of Latvia's national independence, strengthening independence and the country's foreign policy as a whole. In the next two years, Latvia faces new challenges – to prepare fully for its second Presidency of the Council of Europe. It is an opportunity for Latvia to promote its national interests. ( A sound defect.) ... is a reform process of the Council of Europe aimed at strengthening respect for international law, including human rights, in Europe and the obligation for countries to comply with international obligations and to comply with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union must be a strong, value-based union of national states that respects high standards of the rule of law, human rights and democracy. It is in Latvia's interest to maintain the existing institutional balance in order to ensure the unique identity of the European Union as a national union. However, we often hear from the capitals of the European Union that the European Union must also be a global player. If we really want to be like this, then we must finally act as a leader in both the Western Balkans and the eastern and southern neighbourhood of Europe. And that must be understood both in Berlin and Madrid, in Paris and Riga, in Brussels and Rome and in other European capitals. ( The sound is broken.) ... on the strategic autonomy of the European Union, the view is only emerging. Latvia is in favour of the implementation of open strategic autonomy, that is to say, those that contribute to the unsustainability of the European Union from third countries, but at the same time we also remain open to similar thinking partners: the USA, Canada, Great Britain, Japan, South Korea, Israel and Australia. It is important for Latvia that a strong European Union level regulation in the field of cyber security has been established in order to strengthen the level of cyber security of each Member State as well as the overall level of cyber security of the European Union. The European Union must also establish a dialogue with private technology companies. We need to strengthen the dialogue between the European Union and the US on these issues, and we need to support the development of the Member States of the Eastern Partnership policy of the European Union in the digital field and their resilience to disinformation and cyber threats. Ladies and gentlemen! A new phase of relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom has begun in 2021. Latvia sees the United Kingdom as one of the most important partners in the world, and this is also evidenced by the Latvian-British Declaration of Bilateral Cooperation signed last year. We undertake to promote active bilateral political dialogue, deepen regional cooperation and further develop cooperation in the security and defence fields. An individual approach with each Eastern Partnership country is consistently supported. Latvia supports the deepening of the European Union's relations with Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. The European Union must give these countries a long-term perspective for cooperation, including by supporting their gradual integration into the internal market of the European Union. The European Union must also support the strengthening of the security and defence areas of these three countries and help them to increase resilience to the various pressure instruments of Russia. Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in instability in Afghanistan in 2021 and the internal political crisis in Kazakhstan at the beginning of this year reaffirmed the importance of the Central Asia region in the context of the European Union's foreign and security interests. I believe that the European Union must continue to be actively involved throughout the Central Asian region. And Latvia will contribute both bilaterally and regionally. Latvia's position regarding the entry into service of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline is unchanged. We believe that this is a geopolitical project that poses security risks to the European Union and actually increases its energy dependence on one supplier. And we see what is happening now with our own energy prices. Latvia will ensure that the requirements of the European Union Gas Directive are applied to Nord Stream 2. The rise in energy prices in Europe proves repeatedly that we, like the rest of the Baltic States, have to implement as soon as possible the ongoing projects that promote national energy independence and diversify energy sources. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the global pandemic and security challenges in our region, a number of good things have also happened in the new year. It is about Latvia's external economic policies, external trade, investment attraction and Latvian financial sector. This year three-sea initiative meeting and business forum will take place in Latvia. It is organised with the aim of developing important infrastructure projects and reducing the existing connectivity gaps between the northern and southern regions of the European Union, both energy, transport and digital communication sectors. For the first time in Latvia there will also be three Sea Initiative Summits in Parliamentary and Civil Society Forums to promote the recognition and sustainable development of the initiative. In cooperation with the Ministry of Economics, the Latvian Investment and Development Agency, as well as the Ministry of Industry, support for Latvian exporting enterprises with high added value was and will be provided. It is important for us to provide support for increasing export opportunities for goods and services to traditional sectors of the Latvian economy such as transport and logistics, tourism, wood industry, machinery, food production, pharmaceuticals, including by attracting new markets and investment based on the interests of Latvian entrepreneurs and society. Latvia has an important financial sector with good reputation and ability to finance Latvia's economic challenges. In the financial sector, we need to discuss both the efforts to prevent money laundering and how to attract investment. The fight with the dirty money has really done a lot, and the reputation of our country has been restored. This is also appreciated by our international partners. We understand that we are in the phase where we need to learn to manage risks in a balanced way, talk to powerful investment funds and explain our situation. Cooperation between supervisory authorities and the financial sector sends positive signals in this respect. Cooperation is ongoing at local and international level. However, we need to be prepared. Here, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working hard – if the geopolitical situation deteriorates, business and financial sector representatives will be those who will have to be able to understand and apply the new sanctions, if they are imposed. Dear Members of the sitting! I would like to thank our Latvian Diaspora, its organizations for their contribution to representing and defending Latvia's interests and name around the world. We continue our targeted support for strengthening Latvian language and culture. We are increasingly developing active cooperation in the economy, innovation development and looking for new opportunities for attracting talent to Latvia. This year it is planned to organise a forum of Latvian professionals working in international organisations. This will allow to specifically mobilise the involvement of the Latvian Diaspora in the run-up to Latvia's accession to the UN Security Council elections. This soft power of the Latvian Diaspora diplomacy is an invaluable contribution to the economic, foreign policy and security interests of our country. Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Today I have talked several times about the values and principles of the state of Latvia, which characterise every free, independent and democratic state. Latvia is a parliamentary democracy and this year the Saeima celebrates its 100th anniversary. I would like to thank the Members of the Saeima for all your contributions to the work of parliamentary diplomacy and, in today's geopolitical climate, it is late for the Saeima to have a strong flag of democratic values on the international stage! Since the restoration of Latvia's independence, the long-term foreign policy and strategic choices of our country have been correct. Multilateral diplomacy based on international law, participation in international organisations, support for democratic values and international rule of law have become an integral part of Latvia's foreign policy doctrine. This strategic choice of Latvia's foreign policy protects us today. The values of the Latvian Foreign Service are integrity, cooperation and courage. These values are binding on every diplomat of Latvia. January is the month of Latvia's international de iure recognition, month of Latvian diplomacy, therefore I would like to thank every member of the Latvian Foreign Service for their professionalism, determination and teamwork, which each of them performed in their place and time last year, both in Latvia and in the wider world. I wish that in this year and in future all of us are united by integrity, cooperation and courage – with friends and allies of Latvia in the world! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U3	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his report. Name for the report... address to Ināra Mūrniece, Speaker of the Saeima. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U4	Thank you very much Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas. I ask you to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U5	Your times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U6	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Foreign Minister! Everyone who follows the Saeima sitting! Today, in the Saeima, we will debate what was achieved in foreign policy last year and what was planned this year. Traditionally, we align this debate with the day of our country's international recognition de iure, which we also call the day of diplomats. Congratulations to all diplomats today at the trade festival! I would like to express my thanks to the Foreign Minister and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs for the foreign policy report, which is a comprehensive and well-defined foreign sector. This year's debate is taking place at a particularly tense time, in a context of increased international tension, and this tension has been caused by our neighbouring Russia by its aggressive behaviour. By imposing ultimative demands on NATO, Russia openly undermines Western democracy and the principles of the Alliance, while at the same time entirely absurdly blaming NATO, which seems to threaten Russia. The North Atlantic Alliance brings together countries representing democratic values that have no imperial ambitions. Putin Russia has demonstrated its imperial ambitions. NATO and Western Democratic States call on Russia to deal with the crisis that it has created by focusing on a significant, inexplicable and irrefutable military presence in Ukraine – Crimea, Eastern Ukraine and its borders. Western and therefore our approach to relations with Russia has not changed: strong deterrence and protection combined with meaningful dialogue. This approach has also been applied in recent weeks in Geneva, Brussels, Vienna. Russia's aggression and disinformation has a wide range of preventive protection and resistance to disinformation. This is the unity and solidarity of NATO allies, which is very important for us, the country of the eastern flank of the Alliance, in these threatened times. We appreciate the support that is given to us both in military terms and by strengthening our cyberspace. Colleagues, when they get to know the demands that Russia is putting forward in NATO, give the impression that we are coming back before the Second World War. We felt that the language of the ultimatum belonged to the past – the one that robbed our people freedom and the state in 1940. The cold dwash of this past reminds us of the humiliations that our citizens, politicians, diplomats and military people were forced to suffer in the torture chambers of the USSR's State Security Committee and in the swan camps. Then our people were taken out of the normal development of society. That is why, during the barricades, 31 years ago, our people decided to oppose. And that is why we well understand the Ukrainian people, who are not under Russian pressure. We appreciate the NATO booth, which the Alliance has demonstrated by rejecting the absurd ultimatum. When we hear Ukrainians say that their blood is free and their mentality is independence, we can extend it to ourselves. We are very similar in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen! The highest goal of politicians must be to ensure the independence of the state, to strengthen security, to increase the welfare of the people. The contribution of foreign policy in this respect is very important, because our country can successfully develop in synergy with other countries, participating in international organisations and strengthening international order based on the treaties. In this context, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs rightly focuses on multilateral diplomacy, as is apparent from the report. At the same time, we appreciate the classic bilateral diplomacy that is necessary for good relations between national countries. Bilateral embassy diplomats and consular staff shall ensure links with the public in the countries of residence. We MEPs also play our role in cross-border relations – our Foreign Commission, our Committee on European Affairs, the parliamentary delegations of the Saeima in inter-parliamentary organisations, the group of MEPs for cooperation with parliaments of different countries. Foreign affairs are also performed by the Speaker of the Saeima, as well as by Members individually. In particular, I would like to mention our colleague Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš who suddenly, unexpectedly, passed away last autumn. Ojāra's contribution to the development of our foreign policy processes is huge, especially in good relations with our strategic partner, the United States. Thank you, Ojar, for your unmeasurable contribution in defending Latvia's interests! Our active work in international institutions brings results – several Latvian professionals hold high positions in the European Union bodies and NATO. Recently, we congratulate Robert Zīle on his election as Vice-President of the European Parliament, and he has become the first Baltic region representative in this high position. We are also proud of the election of Mārtiņš Paparinska to the UN Commission on International Law. This was the first time that the Baltic States nominated a candidate for the Commission. The Latvian representative won, although the competition was very serious. Our professionals work in various international structures, participate in international civilian and military missions, protecting peace and where needed help. In this way, too, we demonstrate to the world our ability and its involvement in the issues of the international agenda. Colleagues! Our country has set itself the objective of becoming a volatile member of the UN Security Council from 2026 to 2027. In preparation for the elections that will take place in 2025, we must aim to strengthen Latvia's national recognition and authority, as well as be able to offer our expertise in areas that we have developed, such as combating disinformation, in various digital solutions... as well as our reform experience. However, we also need to think about how to lobbying our candidacy not only in countries where we know where we have opened embassies, but also in those regions of the world where attention to Latvia's name has so far been limited. Our Presidency of the Council of Europe next year will also be important. This year, our diplomats will have to set priorities for this Presidency. Our task is to select topics to strengthen the political role and human rights standards of the Council of Europe, thereby also strengthening the visibility and influence of this organisation. We wish the Minister of Foreign Affairs every success in his participation in shaping the political agenda of the Council of Europe during the Latvian Presidency. Latvia's constant foreign policy priority is the successful implementation of the European Union's neighbourhood policy and cooperation with the Central Asian region. Strengthening the stability of the countries of this region is a challenge for the European Union as a whole. This was agreed by the Member States at the end of 2021 at the Eastern Partnership Summit. We stand particularly actively for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. The work of our diplomats, politicians, experts from various fields, through the participation of the European Union and OSCE missions in Ukraine, helps to strengthen Ukraine. Ukraine has chosen a European development vector and has been guarding this choice with weapons for eight years, from which the Kremlin is trying to direct it by various means. Dear colleagues, Last May, together with the President of the Ukrainian Parliament, I visited the region of Donetsk, saw the destruction caused by the separatists supported by Russia on this beautiful and rich land. The Ukrainian army that defends its country deserves the support of the democratic world. Ukraine is now like the whole of Europe's armor, which is holding back Russia's attack on democracy, and we must also monitor our contribution to providing not only political but also military support to Ukraine. Yes, also supplying equipment and weapons. We are in favour of strict and effective sanctions to curb the aggressor. Since the Ukrainian revolt, Maidan, our country has demonstrated its solidarity for the first days and since the occupation and annexation of Crimea, stands for the rights of its indigenous people – the Crimean Tatars – and the return of the peninsula to the territory of Ukraine. We can be proud that we have contributed to the establishment of the Crimean Platform. Thus, we also contribute to the deokupation of the Crimean Peninsula and to maintaining it on the international agenda. Dear colleagues, Latvia's performance in foreign policy last year is noteworthy. Our future intentions are noble and feasible. However, a number of conditions need to be put in place, the most important of which is peace and security in our country and region. Peace and security are helped to protect our allies, NATO members. I thank the governments and parliaments of the countries involved in the NATO enhanced presence group led by Canada, in which Spain, Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland, Montenegro, Italy, Iceland, the Czech Republic and Albania participate. And praise is due to these countries. Thank you also to the countries that provide patrolling of the Baltic airspace. Special thanks to our strategic partner, the United States. We have a special and long - term friendship with the United States. The US has never recognised the incorporation of the Baltic States into the USSR. We are celebrating the centenary of our diplomatic relations this year. Cooperation between the US and European countries based on democratic values is the key to Euro-Atlantic security. The security of Latvia is part of the security of Europe as a whole, which this year will be the focus of both NATO and the European Union. NATO, adopting the strategic concept at the Madrid Summit, the NATO Foreign Ministers meeting in Riga last December was important in its preparation. The strategic compass of the European Union, which has a special role to play in the preparation of the current – French – Presidency of the Council of the European Union, should, in our view, be an additional instrument for NATO. In order to promote geopolitical stability, our task is to achieve an enhanced military presence in the Baltic region of the United States and other NATO countries. Dear colleagues, Excellency! Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, foreign policy activities last year have been intense. This year, the Baltic Presidency will also take place at the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers. In the format of the Baltic cooperation, the focus last year was on combating the Covid-19 pandemic and countering the hybrid attacks organised by the Lukashenko regime, information security and joint infrastructure projects in the areas of transport and energy. Our priorities will continue to be regional security, the economic recovery and growth of the Baltic States, innovation and social protection of the population. I would like to thank the long-term leader of the Latvian delegation in the Baltic Assembly, Mr. Wuzan, for his great contribution. We will continue to be active in Nordic-Baltic cooperation and exchange views on the regional security situation. As has been the case so far, we are in the interest of climate change, digitisation and innovation. The exchange of views on relations with Russia and China, policy coordination against the eastern partners of the European Union, is very important in this format. Dear colleagues, let us continue our day-to-day work, let us be vigilant and secure drivers of our foreign policy objectives! Good luck for everyone involved in foreign policy development in defence of Latvia's interests! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U7	Thank you to the Speaker of the Saeima for your speech. Name for address to Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U8	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic of Latvia! Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members and honourable Members, Colleagues Ministers! Other people here! First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to Edgars Rinkēvičs, our Minister for Foreign Affairs, for an excellent and comprehensive report on the situation and priorities of foreign policy as a whole. I think the way he pulled everything together... It is very difficult to add or subtract anything there. However, for my part, I would like to highlight a few things. One is that first and foremost, that, despite changing external circumstances and the richness of challenges, our main objectives and priorities in foreign policy remain in fact unchanged. In fact, two directions. First and foremost, we must continue to work closely with our allies in the European Union and NATO, strengthening both these organisations and thus strengthening the security of our country in the future. The direction that we have already taken since the restoration of independence is the right direction; we must continue. And continue to strengthen this direction. Thank you to all those who are there. Of course, including members of the Saeima – not only in the Foreign Affairs Commission, but in fact in all commissions – who cooperate with our partners abroad. We each become ambassadors to our country at that time. Our individual work is responsible for collective success. The second direction, which is very important to us, including for the Foreign Service, is to continue working on strengthening our economy and increasing security, directly attracting investment from abroad. We have a strategy in the country, which I call smart reindustrialisation, which is already under way, in full swing, thanks also to our foreign service. Therefore, here too, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those working in our foreign service, all diplomats on all missions. The work you are doing is very much appreciated. And it's with very good results. So I will want to talk about the security situation, about economic policy, about the European Union and then also about our compatriots abroad. On the security situation. It is now clear that it is becoming increasingly tense; if we look at what it was three years ago, when we formed this government and coalition, so in general... externally has deteriorated. What has changed is that Russia, the Putin-led Russia, which has been moving towards a clear autocracy for a long time, is now trying – equally or vice versa – to revive imaginary imperialism. And that is, of course, completely inconsistent with the rest of Europe, in fact with almost the rest of the world. In Europe, we live in national, democratic countries; we do not attack each other, but cooperate with each other, in order to build the shared prosperity of all nations. And it is in great dissonance with what Putin Russia is trying to do, that is, not to live in harmony, but to threaten with weapons, with a military attack, in this case a neighbouring country for Ukraine. Ukraine seeks and wants to develop as the rest of Europe, as a democratic society that chooses its own direction of development. Ukraine, of course, has a full right to do so. We will support and support Ukraine in these efforts, not only diplomatically but also with concrete assistance, including specific military assistance, which will help them to be able to better protect themselves. This direction is clear to us, very many NATO countries are also working in this direction, and it will remain the same for us. But this challenge is, of course, very big for us. Another challenge for us is the Belarusian regime. Since the last presidential elections, the regime has not only turned to the people of its country who protested against the electoral order and considered - in my opinion fully justified - that the elections were not fair and the result is not what was announced... not only suppress the citizens of their country, but also import third-country nationals and try to force them across the external borders of the European Union, including the external borders of Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. And here, colleagues, we have proved to ourselves that, under pressure, we can react very quickly, get together very quickly and control the situation. Politically speaking, the government in a very short time... if I remember correctly, in less than half an hour... At the government sitting, we took a rapid decision to close the Belarus border and task our defence forces with ensuring that no one is crossing this border any more. And here's an excellent thank you... and a high assessment of work, of course, for our country's border guards, the police and the armed forces, who are very professional... has managed and continues to work together today to protect our country's borders. I have been on the site several times, as it happens. I know that members of the Saeima have also been there. Professionalism is obvious. And it proves that we are able to respond when it is necessary as a society, as politicians, as a government and as a professional service, and also to fulfil all our responsibilities. And we will continue to do so. It has also proved here that membership of the European Union and NATO is not just on paper, but is very close, immediate cooperation not only between the three Baltic States, but also with Poland, coordinating border related activities. And our very successful diplomatic work, speaking to other European colleagues who not only recognise that the way in which we, the three countries, protect the external borders of the European Union, are right, but... is currently working on adapting the European Union's legislation, which... a case of this kind, because, of course, when writing laws on asylum seekers, no legislator and no politician had previously imagined a situation where human trafficking... there's no criminal organization... such individual cases... but that the entire government regime would actually do illegal... trafficking in human beings and their pressure and difficulty across national borders. So our allies stand with us in this regard. And that is thanks to the great work that has been a long time – that we have such good contacts – at all levels – with the European Union and also our NATO partners. We have, of course, also asked NATO countries to strengthen their military presence throughout Eastern Europe, including the Baltic States. The first countries have already responded. For example, Denmark will send additional fighters to strengthen air patrolling in the Baltic States. They will also send warships to the Baltic Sea to strengthen our security in the region. Negotiations are under way, and it is expected that... This will, of course, also be more extensive. And here, of course, I would like to express my thanks to all NATO countries participating in Latvia's defence. The Latvian... On-site training with our soldiers on a daily basis... Canada is the main country, but our Foreign Minister and the Speaker of the Saeima have named all the others... I'm afraid I'm not going to name the 10, and I don't want to leave somebody without calling... All these forces are highly valued, highly professional. And, of course, from our defence point of view, it is not that the Latvian army and NATO forces are like something apart; we all have defence plans in cooperation with all NATO countries, NATO partners, and we are completely united, as we say, in the defence plan or... in fact, very many and different plans for any situation that might arise. And we will continue, of course, to strengthen our own defence. At present, we invest around 2.3 percent of our gross domestic product in our protection. I believe that we should step up this and that our next goal should be: 2.5 percent for our protection in the coming years. So let us, colleagues, work on this - let us strengthen our defence capabilities. By strengthening ourselves, we are strengthening NATO. And, of course, this is the basic principle in the entire NATO defence system – to provide for yourself, and others will be able to help. And we take care of and take care of ourselves, as it proves with the border of Belarus – we protected it very professionally. Thank you all once again. On economic policy. One of the objectives of our foreign policy is to attract external investment so that we have more and more jobs and prosperity in our country. What I have referred to as smart reindustrialisation is precisely what appears in fact in two programming documents adopted by the Saeima. So we have the National Development Plan – thank all our colleagues for their work on it – and the National Industrial Policy Guidelines. And when we put this together, we see that we are a country... we can see the development of our prosperity through the fact that Latvia will have more and more jobs in companies that are exportable, which produce either ideas, services or specific items. These are the investments that we are looking for. We have worked to improve the overall investment environment by sorting out the rule of law, sorting out supervision of our banking sector, setting up an Economic Court, and as a result, in 2020 we already had record investments when looking at the previous seven years. And in 2021 we beat more than twice... More than EUR 600 million came last year; it has created more than... well-paid jobs in the future. So let's keep working in foreign policy, both with our political... The European Union and our NATO partners, as they have done so far, will also strengthen these organisations, and we will continue to work to attract investment. And our work could be said to be continuing to sort out the environment at home, including administrative territorial reform... Education System Improvements, Health System Improvements... that the environment in which to invest is ever better, and this will increase our prosperity as a whole. On the European Union. The French Presidency is now starting. The French President... As we know very well, there are also elections this spring... I see that there will be such a very active pro-European policy on their part. And one of the topics that will be discussed and discussed is the so-called strategic autonomy that the European Union could have. And this strategic autonomy must be divided, this concept must be divided into two parts: one is probably military, the other is economic. Regarding the military aspect. If the European Union becomes stronger militaryly as part of NATO, it is in our interest. So – stronger NATO with the European Union... individual and collective... is stronger in the military. This is the direction in which we have to go, so we also... By increasing its spending or investment in defence, it also strengthens Latvia, it strengthens Europe, and it strengthens the NATO Alliance as a whole. And this is the direction in which we should go – a strong, militaryly strong Europe as a very strong pillar in the NATO Military Union. That is the direction that we need to develop. And the other. On the economic aspect. This autonomy... We can see... For example, at the very beginning of the community crisis... We remember that it was very difficult for us as well as for all other European countries to provide so-called personal protective equipment – face masks, breathers, gloves and so on – because it turns out that the whole of Europe has become entirely dependent on imports from China. From a rather distant China. There were companies in Europe producing these products, but not in sufficient quantities. The result is that, over these two years, Europe has now enjoyed a very wide range of types of protective equipment. We are no longer entirely dependent on China. And in that direction... Europe's strategic autonomy in providing an ever-increasing production base is in the interests of our country in the context of smart reindustrialisation. That is, if Europe, for example, were to produce from electronics on-site, it means that there are more opportunities to produce on-site in Latvia. And that's what we want. So, of course, we argue that it should move production – after opportunity and opportunity – to the European Union, specifically to Latvia, where... our circumstances are excellently good, we have a number of very, very powerful companies in the area of electronics, which is rapidly developing. Our most profitable export company was in the field of electronics, last year with very good indicators, so good indicators that one of the owners of this company was able to donate EUR 20 million to children's hospital – as we say, was also able to deal with mecetaism. And that means that we need to do everything in this direction so that we can grow bigger and stronger companies of this kind, looking at what we could even start producing in Latvia even further, in order to reduce the European Union's dependence on distant imports as well, so also from China. That's what we see here... the community that the supply chains are being disrupted: the further to be delivered, the more difficult the supply chains are. So there is a great opportunity here also for us to develop and strengthen this concept of strategic autonomy, which is being talked about in the European Union. More about the climate in the European Union. We are moving through now in the whole context of the European Union... Well, what English calls it... “ready for 55” – it must then be translated. These are very ambitious climate goals with the idea of reducing – sharply! – the use of fossil fuels and the transition to renewable energy, hydrogen and so on. This direction is the right direction. I am convinced that this is the right direction, both from an environmental point of view... with a greenhouse effect... and climate change... Indeed, by burning fossil fuels – oil, gas, coal – humanity is doing a great deal of damage to the overall environment, and this should be changed. But from Latvia's point of view, there is a second aspect, which is also geopolitical, which is related to our security. At present, about 40 percent of all our energy needs we are able to meet with domestic sources, whether they are the Daugava HES cascades, which largely provide our electricity consumption, whether it is the widespread use of biomass, which is increasingly satisfying or... helps our heating. However, the remaining 60 percent is based on imports of oil and gas from Russia. And we have an interest in moving away from this addiction and making more use of what we have – we have the sun ourselves, we have the wind ourselves, we have the water resources ourselves, and we have the biomass ourselves. But there's also a distinction to be made here that... Discussions are taking place – sometimes they are purely ideological – that it must be done regardless of costs, regardless of the consequences in society. I argued that we should go sensibly, with open eyes, in front of these climate objectives, all the time with a careful eye to the fact that our society as a whole would not suffer from it, but gain from it. This can be done if we approach this issue pragmatically. So I am one hundred percent in favour of achieving Europe's climate targets. This coincides with us both from an environmental point of view and from a geostrategic point of view, but let us move and argue wisely, step by step. We will all be able to achieve these goals, and we will still have public support in this process if we continue to be pragmatic as we have been so far. Finally, I would also like to say a few words about our compatriots abroad. We know that, especially since accession to the European Union, we have estimates of up to 300 000 citizens who are currently living, working or studying abroad. Most of this is in the countries of the European Union... Norway as well as Iceland. But it is important for us that these people stay in touch with their homeland. So thank you to all those who work in our Diaspora or exile organizations that maintain Latvianism, who organize Latvian schools on Saturdays, dance our folk dances and sing our songs, maintaining our traditions. This is very, very important. But we also need to look at the next step – how can we as a country be again... to re-integrate people who may have lived or were born abroad for a long time, so that they would be interested in returning to their homeland or ancestors, especially when thinking about young people – those who are in their study years. We need to do more to promote the possibility for them to spend one semester in Latvia during their studies, for example. If it is relative to all Latvians living abroad – those who study or who have lived for a long time, those who have grown up or even were born abroad... if they could each spend at least one semester in a Latvian university, I am sure that very many of them would have eyes open, how wonderful the possibilities are, how pleasant it is, and many might choose to link their future to our country. We also need to strengthen cooperation with Latvians living abroad in economic terms and support all economic forums. It is a huge asset that we do not need to forget, we need to use it. Of course during the Cold War, during the occupation, the exile organizations were those held by independent Latvian... demands and expectations on the policy agenda... foreign... So, on our agenda today's European and NATO partners. It was a huge job that that generation did. Now the new generation... It has another task. We have a free and democratic country, but we need the knowledge that people get abroad... that they come back – at home. And there, the foreign service and all of us have a lot of work to do – also in this direction. But thank you to all those who work on it. In conclusion. Once again, thank you to the Foreign Minister for his excellent report, and I would like to say that I also want to say for the excellent work, as well as the entire Foreign Service, Members of the Saeima, and all the Ministers, who also work with our partners in their councils. Joint forces in changing conditions, keeping clear... Look at our goal, I am sure we will overcome everything, we will be able to continue to strengthen our country, which is our fundamental objective. Colleagues, friends! We can do that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U9	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of the list of further speakers. Traditionally, during the foreign debate, the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission is speaking first, and then on behalf of the political groups, a group of delegates is speaking. So the next name will be Rihards Kohl, then: Juris Puce, Dagmars Beitnere-Le Galla, Ainars Latkovskis, Viktors Valainis, Aldis Gobzems, Edwins Šnore. Then Minister of Defence Artis Pabriks. Members then applied in writing: Inese Voika, Inese Lībiņa–Egnere, Uldis Budriķis, Ivars Zariņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Atis Lejiņš and Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska. Member Jānis Vucāns also electronically applied in the Saeima's e-system. We are continuing the debate. Member Rihards Kols on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U10	Dear President of the Saeima. I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U11	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U12	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Mr. Prime Minister! Dear President of the Saeima. Ministers! Dear Members, honourable Members, Excellency! First of all, thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the entire foreign minister for the progress made last year. I also thank the Minister for his report, which, on account of its understandable format, covers everything that has brought us to this day from last year. This is reflected in the fact that the roots and developments of today's hottest issues can also be traced back to the text of the report. Foreign policy work, despite the restrictions imposed by the pandemic, was more intensive last year than ever. Over recent years, the role of parliamentary diplomacy has increased considerably, and it is a pleasure to see that in the field of foreign affairs Parliament and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are expressed partners with a common understanding and support for a common foreign policy course in Latvia. If, a year ago, someone asked me if, at a time when the world is struggling with a global pandemic, anything else could be more topical, I would probably say no, but the world may also be surprised at the negative. Today, security is the most pressing issue for Latvia and Europe. The current global confrontation is taking place, perhaps not quite at the level of the Cold War, but nevertheless – serious. This is, of course, about the Russian military threat to Ukraine, the ultimative demands to limit NATO enlargement and even to withdraw and... limit the presence and operation of NATO allies forces in the Baltic States. At a certain level, the roots of today's challenges can be found in an inappropriately widespread conviction – no, even in an unjustified assumption! – that the objectives of Russia and the West are the same and the desired end result – a mutual priority. This assumption is based on a large part of the over-preparedness shown by Western countries – just on good with Putin... his ultimates and momentary farceistic settings. The pattern of reaction has remained unchanged for a long time. The Head of the International Energy Agency, Fatih Birols, recently stressed Russia's responsibility to trigger the energy crisis by targeting gas supplies to Europe. It must be a wake-up call for us. Waiting and removing time without reducing the threat of dependence on Russia and on the priorities of its regime, in simple words, is the same as continuing to shoot yourself in the foot and to shoot into the hand for security reasons. The issue of energy blackmail became reality faster than I would like, but the truth is that Europe is vulnerable when it comes to Russian gas needles when it imports 90 per cent of its gas. We know that Russia, through Gazprom, uses gas as a geopolitical weapon, this fact, after the last threat of cutting off gas for Europe, if the West responds to aggression in Ukraine by excluding Russia from SWIFT, it is unlikely that even the greatest apologists will be denied. Those who hope that Nord Stream 2 will be irreversibly closed are likely to be disappointed: Germany's interests here are purely mercantile, it needs Russian gas in order to be able to give up the use of coal and provide a reserve if wind and solar power are not sufficient. This conveyor over Europe is hanging like the sword of Damokla, and if we do not get rid of it, we can begin to get used to the fact that Putin will regularly destabilize the whole of Europe with new crises. The campaign against Ukraine launched by Russia is also fierce – with the aim of undermining the legitimacy of the Ukrainian government and geopolitical orientation. Russia has combined traditional - military - aggression with hybrid war. The lack of clarity in Moscow's intentions and the formation of the Kremlin, apologies, the extortion of international law and commitments is a rather common constant. Although we do not know whether the Kremlin wants to develop a kinetic conflict and occupy the entire Ukraine, the regime's readiness to use all the instruments to implement its red line plan is obvious and demonstrable. It is a political military terror, an attack on standards that the Western world considers to be universally binding. If we refuse them, if we do not stand above the lowly provocations, the terrorists will win. Tactics from the Kremlin is already well-known classics – to use all tools, levers, threats, ultimates, wordings, legal interpretation, infantisation of history and disinformation to legitimize their immoral 2006s in European countries and geopolitical ambitions. Our position is clear – together with Ukraine! If the European Union's combined diplomatic and economic power with NATO allies – the United States, Great Britain and Canada – is not sufficient to deter Russia from its fantastic course to destruction, we can prepare for a long, cold winter. Moving towards the neighbours and closer to Latvia's border – tension on the border between Belarus and the European Union can be called a crisis involving migrants, but it is definitely not a migration crisis. It is a hybrid war, and it is important that we also define it and mark it. The most urgent task is always the moment and security in it. Following the suspension of the outbreak of the crisis, a debate on the review of the European Asylum Mechanism should be launched. I recall, by establishing a European area of free movement, Schengen, a common asylum policy within the European Union, which resulted in the Dublin Regulation. This was last updated in 2013. The Regulation defines, among other things, the country responsible for examining an application for asylum, which is the first country of entry. A fundamentally unfair system has been created in which a disproportionate burden of responsibility is imposed on the countries of the European Union's external border. This type of policy, while maintaining Schengen in its current form, is not viable in the long term. The legal framework of the European Union is outdated and does not correspond to the current situation. The UN Geneva Convention, on which the European Union system is based, was created in 1951, assuming that the issue of refugees would be a temporary problem that could be resolved in years after the end of the Second World War. But nothing is more durable than a temporary solution. The moral and legal ageing of the 1951 Convention is self-evident. On this issue, we will certainly break the slices already this year. In the meantime, of course, it is not entirely possible to prevent attempts at external destabilisation. The flame of migration that Lukashenko has set up will be forced to extinguish ourselves, but the dictator in Minsk is now entirely dependent on the back of the Kremlin. Revanchist powers' attempts to audit and destabilise the international system, the mutating unrest and conflicts of values in democratic countries as a whole have created unprecedented tensions on the world order based on international law. The Covid-19 pandemic is probably the largest disruption of the global order since the Cold War, it broke the first worst hit countries, creating shocks and additional pressures for the legitimacy of the international system, which has already been undermined. Latvia, faced with an unprecedented level of threat in the region in the last decades, both from hybrid attacks on the external borders of the European Union and from Russia's aggressive expansional policy, together with the other Baltic countries, including Poland, must continue to increase the mobility of the armed forces themselves and the "fire force" and, in the absence of changes in the situation of its neighbours, should think about the establishment of a relatively common response system in the Baltic States and Poland in the event of a threat. On the agenda, the central issue is also to achieve a deeper and wider presence of NATO allies in Latvia. Today is just a general attempt. The crisis will always have the opportunity to paraphrase Čerčīle: a good crisis should never be left unused. The mayor's epidemic in the 14th and 15th centuries led Europe, through tragedies and unimaginable losses, to a renaissance. The pandemic has revealed the instability of the current rules-based international system. This is demonstrated by the increasingly aggressive and bolder activities of third country players in the international space. But abandoning the international system based on rules and values would be completely insane, and it is our duty to strengthen and defend the system based on Latvia's own independence and security. Looking at the impact of the European Union, it has to be said that no regional authority (and certainly not Russia, of course) has ever made any effort to respect the security interests and the sensitive situation of European countries in its neighbourhood just because the European Union is reluctant to engage in security cooperation with its neighbours. The European Union's restraint has not resulted in a curbing of Russia's aggressive policy. On the contrary, this is demonstrated by the last 20 years. Every time the European Union has avoided a strong and firm response to crises, Russia has escalated the scale of the crisis. If we are ready to become geopolitically self-sufficient, we should stop fearing our shadows – we will only continue to limit our influence, efficiency and autonomy. We can start by investing more actively in security cooperation with the eastern and southern neighbours of the European Union. In recent years, the combination of words “strategic autonomy” has been folded in many different forms. A popular discussion at the moment is about the strategic autonomy of the European Union, with which everyone understands something of their own. Latvia's position is clear – we want and we are too important... and we also find ourselves self-sufficient... and the development of resilience capacities in the European Union. Security and defence capabilities within the framework of the European Union must be strengthened without escape, which would still in no way be an alternative to strengthening the collective security of the NATO Alliance, and in no way be aimed at weakening transatlantic relations. Latvia should not talk in these discussions about autonomy, which everyone sees differently, but about the European Union's strategy for Russia, China and transatlantic relations. Although the Member States of the European Union have committed themselves to implementing a common European Union external and security policy, an ad hoc reactionary policy is being implemented in real time. This has often led to misunderstandings, conflicts and insults within the European Union. The conclusion that there is no such global strategy for the European Union today is not new, but there is still evidence of the avoidance of and retention of decision-making. The balance of geopolitical forces in the world is changing and the European Union must create a common strategy according to these circumstances. The future European strategic compass must take into account today's complex and evolutionary nature and hybrid reality as a basis. We need to be aware of the existing problems and we need to talk about them, for example, that from a geopolitical perspective, some of the main security players in the European Union – France, Germany and Poland – have different perceptions of the European Union's strategic autonomy, strategic direction and level of threat. In the background of these Chineses, time and opportunities are being lost, but the European Union cannot afford to be a spectator in global developments at a time when the European Union must increase its capacity, its resilience and its readiness to act. Lack of unity, passiveness, delays and poor coordination costs a very real and high price. There is such an axiom of security – the greatest threat to any defence architecture is always a lack of will and internal fragmentation. In order to work on the new NATO strategic concept, it is necessary to understand that without solving previous uncertainties, the ambitious vision and slogans of the world will be mere phrases. As part of the Alliance, we are witnessing the difficulties of reaching an agreement on much more urgent issues on a regular basis. Is the document we are going to prepare a vision and a collection of wishes or is our vision of what we are going to do? Agreeing is important, a shared vision that everyone can repeat and follow is very useful. We can come to meaningful, true cooperation in its best expression. This is reflected in the very clear decisions taken in recent weeks and in public communication. But coordination, discussions, contacts and, above all, trust among allies must be managed in everyday life, not – every one for himself to mobilise only in crisis situations. On the level of Baltic diplomacy. We see a certain level of renaissance. Over the last 30 years, cooperation between the Baltic States has been more blessed with some irony – even though most often these negotiations end with the usual comparisons and accentuating differences, which, of course, apply to all neighbours wherever they are. Paradoxically, it was within the framework of the digital or hybrid diploma introduced by Covid-19 that it was possible to establish and consolidate one of the closest mini-unions within the framework of parliamentary diplomacy, acting as a well-oiled mechanism and able to bring more allies than usual with one message and voice to their initiatives. Last year, the chairmen of the foreign commissions of the Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian Parliaments went on 10 joint foreign visits, led a series of political statements with a broad association of allies. It was, and remains, a rapid, effective, meaningful and targeted parliamentary diplomacy, which, in the short term, results in a clear and irrefutable demonstration of how small countries are able to trigger power and to direct policy and progress themselves. Baltic cooperation and its effectiveness have also given impetus to strengthening awareness of the growing role of parliamentary diplomacy. In 2022, Parliament will continue to play an active role and strengthen its role in parliamentary diplomacy and decision-making in international relations. This year, Latvia is the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly, which brings together a number of opportunities and tasks, and this year the Saeima will be the centre of two important events: the Parliamentary Forum of the Three Seas Initiative Summit in Riga and the Epicentre of the Parliamentary Network Meeting of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Through these events and, of course, by clearly defining the role and tasks of Parliament in the field of foreign policy, we will ensure that there is no continuity in Parliament's work forever, whatever the composition of the next parliamentary term. And it is a feature of mature and consistent democracy. I call on you not to miss this opportunity and be fully involved. Inter-parliamentary cooperation and negotiations can have enormous added value, working at the heart and taking into account positions from governments, businesses and non-governmental organisations. At individual level too, colleagues, parliamentary diplomacy have their advantages. I think that this is a worthy task for every parliamentaryist – to actively act and implement Latvia's common foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, The next speakers will speak on behalf of the political groups and will be Juris Puce, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Ainars Latkovskis, Viktors Valainis, Aldis Gobzems and Edwins Šnore. Dear colleagues, Time for notification. Today's anniversary is celebrated by our fellow Member Sandis Riekstins, and we welcome him! Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U14	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda – annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union. We are continuing the debate. Development/About! Member of the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U15	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Mr. High Minister. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! This year, the annual foreign policy debate is taking place at a special time – the tension in the international security situation in our region has reached a very high level. For six months already, Latvia together with Lithuania and Poland is facing an unprecedented hybrid attack from Belarus. In recent months, we have been living under increasing tension at the Ukrainian border, where Russia has started to take military action, which combines with an ever-increasing public communication by the Russian authorities. Russia's so-called offer for a new international security architecture was nothing new, it was a return in the decades past, where each medium-sized and large country was faced with a so-called buffer state barrier, which allegedly protected it from other countries' efforts. Russia's foreign and security policy strategies are unable to get out of Brezhnyv's time thinking. The Western countries of the 21st century are not threatened by Russia; NATO is an alliance of defence and not an alliance of attack. The new NATO Member States provide themselves with weapons of defence, build defence structures and work to strengthen the collective security system. Russia is instead an internationally recognised aggressor, who has occupied the territories of other countries, has created artificial intellectual formations, the only function of which is the creation of endless instability in the neighbouring countries of Russia. We can be pleased that both the European Union... Both the joint decisions of NATO countries in the context of the hybrid attack at the external borders of the European Union and Russia's aggressive behaviour have been clear and united. NATO and its Member States have rejected as an impossible and inappropriate Russian pseudo offer. NATO and its Member States are strengthening their presence in our region. This increases credibility for the NATO Alliance as a guarantor of peace and security. This is particularly important for Latvia. I would like to express my gratitude to all our allies who are already participating in Latvia's external security. In this context, I would like to stress with satisfaction that 13. The Saeima has decided, by approving all four national budgets for our term of office, to grant public defence funding in excess of two per cent of gross domestic product. The current situation, however, makes it necessary to review the funding available for security again. I would call on the Latvian Government to assess in 2022 the need to accelerate investment in national defence, internal and external security. This may be a practical need. At the same time, I am truly pleased that all the Baltic States have taken a decision together with weapons and the necessary military equipment to support Ukraine. It is an appropriate moral decision – to solidarity with the Ukrainian state and the nation. Using the opportunity that the ambassadors of our NATO allies listen to this session, I would like to invite the governments of all NATO member states to support Ukraine not only with a good word and advice, but also in practice. The attack on Ukraine would be an attack on the entire collective security system in Europe, the defence of which was established by NATO. Peace with the aggressor can only be achieved if the aggressor knows it is not worth attacking. NATO must help Ukraine. What decisions should Latvia take today? First of all, we need to understand the risks that further international security situations can pose to Latvia's state and economy... in our region... worsening. The government should carry out an analysis and take forward steps to mitigate the negative effects. Secondly, it is already clear that there is an urgent need for action in the field of energy. The issue of energy independence is no longer a challenge for the future and long years of work. The future of Latvia is without the supply of natural gas and other fossil resources from third countries. Latvia's dependence on them is not just a side effect of climate policy; it has a direct impact on economic security – even, as we can see, on price stability. Fast and decisive decisions by the government are expected to free Latvia from this addiction in the near future. Security challenges have always been a large part of Latvia's foreign policy priorities. Clearly, their importance is now only growing. The readiness to invest in security will demonstrate the ability of our national policy not only to speak but also to do what is to be done. An important part of the Minister's report was devoted to the European Union. In European policy, last was a year of great challenges. It is clear that Europe is gradually emerging from the economic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic. The road to climate neutrality, investment in green and digital Europe, reducing regional disparities and a socially responsible Europe are clear, clear priorities for the European Union as a whole. On behalf of our group, I can only express my satisfaction that Latvia is also taking a targeted part in defining these priorities and is one of the countries that want faster and more sustainable economic and social development in Europe. The next few years will be crucial for Latvia. The Green course's high-speed train takes its course, it's our decision – either to stand aside, hoping nothing will happen, or to work to ensure that the green course's impact on Latvia's economy and citizens is as positive as possible. It is an opportunity to be either among the most innovative doers or among those who hope that, without doing anything, some results can be achieved. We from Development/About! we can only invite the parties to take advantage of this opportunity. This is definitely much more an opportunity for Latvia than risks. Unless we learn to make use of this opportunity. The future of the European Union will be in the broadest debate this year. It is clear that these almost 22 years since we were in the European Union have been the most economical time for Latvia. Participation in the European Union is the cornerstone of any growth strategy we have. A more effective, faster decision-making European Union is in Latvia's interest. In the debate on the future, I would call for an opportunity for Europe. It has already contributed so much to Latvia's growth, but how much more could it do! In conclusion, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his report and wish the Minister and the whole Cabinet of Ministers the strength and strength in the difficult situation in which we have to work and make decisions. Many thanks to the Latvian diplomatic service, soldiers, border guards, police officers and the staff of the state security authorities, who serve to make Latvia safer every day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U16	Thank you. On behalf of the new Conservative Group, Member Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U17	Dear Mr. Kariņš, Mr. Rinkēvičs, Mr. Pabrik! Colleagues! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the new Conservative Party and on behalf of the Group, I also thank the Foreign Minister for his report. And I would like to say that last year has brought an unprecedented situation in which the north-east border of the European Union has reached. This is still the current threat. One episode from history has been recalled: if we are attacking our neighbouring borders, we must not postpone the protection of our borders. This should have been understood more quickly and our eastern borders should have been strengthened. As we have seen, common problems have served as a united force for the Baltic States and for Poland, which has been the strongest support in our war of independence, and today too, we receive countless statements of friendship and solidarity. We are pleased that the time of the tests gives us the opportunity to consider and build new, as well as to strengthen the existing ties with Poland, which has been an important guardian of Europe in its history, and it maintains Europe's conservative values today. I thank and pay deep respect to the Polish soldiers, the border guards for their property while protecting the Polish and European borders. The historic examples of Poland and its strong ethical and moral backbone give us the confidence that alongside liberal values in society, conservative values must be represented. It gives the public the courage and also the voice to defend their values without fear of discussion. We believe that the public should be able to determine to what extent it wishes to transfer national powers to the superindents of national competence in matters affecting national foundations. We Conservatives are convinced that Europe can be rescued from a more shock by centuries of tested values, which, as a result of discussions, can crystallise issues that are essential to today's Europe. I would like to remind you that conservative values do not prevent us from being inclusive and tolerant. The tension on our external borders and what messages were reflected in the information space of Latvia, we have the lesson that one of the most important elements in this hybrid war situation is the reliability of information and reliable media capable of reflecting the situation in the context of national security. In circumstances of information war, misleading or incomplete information causes confusion in society, even protest – as a public media it can act, because miscommunication can pose a serious threat in a crisis situation. In this context, Latvia should also address and promote a reliable, unified European Union information platform at European Union level, where, under the 24/7 regime, every citizen of the European Union could get acquainted with reliable and verified information on what is happening in Europe and in the world. We would like to remind you that the European Union does not have its own media, because Euronews is owned by a third-country national. Russia's ultimatum for Latvia's strategic partner, the United States, and NATO, in fact enter into an important phase of international relations: whether the paradigm of international relations of the 20th century will be maintained, in which the powers (or those who imagine themselves) divide the world and decide the fate of other independent states. The anniversary debate crystallises the recognition that it is an examination of the Western political idea – whether it will agree with the ultimam for the sake of dear peace, or whether it will be enough strength and conviction that in the 21st century the arrogant and cynical geopolitical doctrines of the 20th century should be abandoned, because the analogy with 1938 is too direct to ignore it. Our destiny is our geography. Our nation has experienced and experienced all political consistency caused by totalitarian systems, so we must always be vigilant about our country, and we must also be on the international stage those who remind welfare and peaceful societies of what is happening. We must not allow attacks on other vulnerable countries to determine their political choices. We are encouraged and supported by the warnings of Western researchers, which gives us confidence that we are not alone. That is why it is important to be vigilant and give clear support to our eastern partners in their Euro-Atlantic efforts. We must remember that Ukraine's fight against the aggressor is also taking place in our name and is contributing to the security of Latvia and Europe; at the same time, it reminds us of the fragility of peace and imposes a moral obligation on Ukraine to provide our assistance. We must find all the opportunities together to share our experience and also support Moldova, especially now that this country has a historic opportunity to stay in the Euro-Atlantic cultural space irreversibly. At the same time, we must not lose sight of our Eastern partner Georgia, who is taking care of Russia's ultimative statement to NATO on 17 December; this reminds us of the aggressive nature of Russia, which Georgia is experiencing at the moment in its occupied territories. It is our moral duty to continue to support Georgia in its efforts to move closer to NATO and the European Union; it is the desire of the majority of society, which is also included in the Georgian constitution as a strategic goal of the country. This year has started with the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In addition, France, as one of the European nuclear states, is experiencing two major domestic political events this year, the influence of which can extend far beyond the French borders and therefore we must closely follow: presidential and parliamentary elections. The person of President Emanuel Macron has become the main driver of the European renewal idea. We are like-minded countries with great and excellent cooperation both bilaterally and multilaterally, and we appreciate the fact that France does not pass on its principles; that is what we experienced in 2014, when France refused to sell Mistral a military base ship to Russia at the time of economic losses. We hope that after the elections, the French political course will remain friendly to Latvia and that together we will continue to work for an efficient, competitive and strategic autonomy for the future of Europe. After Britain's departure from the European Union, the United Kingdom has demonstrated itself as a reliable member of the fight against Europe and NATO. And we thank all the troops of the NATO Member States who participate in strengthening the security of Latvia and the rest of the Baltic States on behalf of us, the New Conservative Group. At this time, we feel that the alliance is strong and loyal to its principles. In cooperation we examine values and principles. This year's significant foreign policy event in Latvia, to which I have invited foreign colleagues, parliamentarians – the Three Seas Initiative Meeting, using every opportunity. A major political measure would also help build close cooperation in the parliamentary field between similar-minded countries outside the European Union and NATO. In the post-Pandemic climate, it is economic growth that is one of the keys to our security. For its part, Latvia has carried out significant reforms in the field of justice in recent years, creating a safer environment for foreign investment – the Economic Court of Justice has been established, the Prosecutor General has been elected in transparent process. The Rail Baltica project, involving many countries, will also increase confidence in Latvia, confidence that the country is safe for investment. It's noticed and appreciated. Our partners also commend us for Latvia's achievements, where our foreign service is also a deserver alongside the area of justice. Latvia is currently the second most privileged country in the European Union in terms of foreign policy, because our foreign service is managed by the second most experienced foreign minister after Luxembourg. And in this situation, we certainly benefit, because external conditions are now a test of stress in various areas. Minister! I would like to express my joy at the Open Embassy in Australia, which was long awaited by our Diaspora. Finally, thank you for the work of your team and the Foreign Service here, in Riga, and in every representation of Latvia abroad. This creates confidence and a sense of security for an essential public sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U18	Thank you. On behalf of the formation of the New Unity – Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U19	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Sir, Colleagues! I will not be original when it comes to saying that we are living in a time of global geopolitical instability. Unfortunately, confrontation, where Western democratic countries are on one side, and first of all, authoritarian regimes that wish to review the current world order, affect Latvia in the most direct way. And often even more than many other democratic Western countries. Our country is one of those Eastern European countries that consider their area of influence to be the Russian revisionist and authoritarian regime. I can only remind you, but you yourself well remember that in 2008 Georgia became the victim of Moscow's ambitions and Ukraine in 2014. Russia has occupied Ukraine's Crimean peninsula. It openly supports the Ukrainian Eastern pro-Russian separatists, whose creation and existence, without the direct participation of the cartilage, is not even imaginable and feasible. On the other hand, the sword of Damokla continues to war over the whole of Ukraine. Russia's armed forces and technology are concentrated at its border, clearly demonstrating the threat of an open invasion in Ukraine. And this is far from the entire list of heroic works of our eastern neighbours, in the worst sense of the word. Belarus' regime is also being drawn ever closer into the orbit of Moscow. Moscow's desire to reconvert Europe's borders and restore its geopolitical influence is all the more evident in the ultimatum for the United States and Western Democrats put forward by the Kremlin at the end of last year. I'll remind you again. The Kremlin calls on democratic countries to change existing agreements in the field of international security, to abandon further enlargement of the Union for the Protection of Democratic States, i.e. the North Atlantic Alliance, as well as to eliminate all foreign military objects in the Eastern NATO Member States that were created there after 1997. Otherwise, military, military and technical steps are being threatened without, of course, revealing what lies behind these threats, but we can only imagine that. It is an open revisionist policy or rather a combination of imperial policy, aggressive diplomacy and military threats. It is a policy that can reach each of Russia's neighbours at any time, including our Latvia. This is a policy where any concessions are seen as a weakness of the opposite party and as a reason for new demands. Such policy is by nature an existential threat to Latvia as an independent democratic state. And accordingly, the prevention of these threats must be an absolute priority for our foreign policy. Colleagues! I am not and I also do not want to be known to President Putin of Russia, but I have no doubt that authoritarian leaders like him have never been able to stop the peace. Russia's reformism is only able to stop and curb the establishment of an equivalent potential, as well as the unity and unhinderedness of democratic countries, defending their values and ideals. Any ultimative demands in this case are unacceptable, but negotiations with the Kremlin are only possible on very specific security issues, strictly respecting the fundamental principles of democracy and even denying the idea that Russia could be given some illusion the opportunity to influence the choices and decisions of other countries on their future. The foreign policy officials of Latvia, our Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Rinkēvičs, must continue the current course of our foreign policy, in which Latvia contributes to making the common position and policy of Western democracy clear, united and unwavering. Only in that and no other way will we be able to defend our country and our values. God bless Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U20	Thank you. Member of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U21	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Minister! Excellency! When we talk about Parliament's foreign policy, how I would like to emphasise every year that it is important to talk about the most important things and, of course, the issue of security is now one of the most important and central issues that both the Minister and all colleagues are talking about today, as well as in the foreign policy report itself, it plays a central role and is highlighted the most. This tension has begun last year and is, of course, a very important thing that must not be overlooked. Our party association considers Latvia's independence as the highest of all values – both material and spiritual. That is why we would like to thank our allies in the European Union and NATO Member States, as well as our strategic partner in the USA. In view of all this, we also very strongly want to say at this point that we will not allow any deviation from budgetary issues in the area of defence and we will be involved in discussions about the fact that it could also be decided on a greater transfer of financial resources in this area. Colleagues, there are different kinds of crises... And here we also need to mention the work that we have not done on protecting our borders. There are things on which we would now look much more calmly if we had done homework to strengthen our borders early on, rather than now, when we do it at the last moment, in principle, in times of crisis, using temporary solutions, postponing long-term solutions at a later stage. These questions need to be considered in good time. This report deals with the recommendations of Moneyval and their implementation. Of course, this is very well, it is very good, and these international assessments are very welcome, but again and again - as we have pointed out in previous years - it is very important that these same recommendations be met in others too... at least in the Member States of the European Union, so that we are in a level playing field. Not that we are the only ones to do, but others to watch, to praise us, but to continue to work according to the principles that were before. We are following these new high standards. This, of course, also places a special responsibility on businesses. This limits entrepreneurs' ability to act quickly. We see that in other countries it can be done much faster, much simpler, but for us this administrative burden is extraordinary, and for this we receive constantly – constantly! – news from our entrepreneurs and investors who come and try to start operations in Latvia. Colleagues, in our view, energy security is an issue that is far too little addressed in this report. Energy security should be faced much more seriously and should be one of the main foreign policy priorities next year alongside security, which I mentioned earlier, but also energy security must be highlighted in particular. A year ago we talked about Covid-19 restrictions, vaccines, which were the great challenge for Europe, and we see how we have succeeded in this. We can look back on this right now, but today we have to talk about how the whole of the European Union will cope with energy challenges. We have to understand that Latvia alone will not be able to provide those support instruments in the long term so that these energy prices remain at the level they are now... at least after the adoption of the planned support mechanisms. In the long term, this solution must be not only at the level of Latvia, but at the level of the European Union as a whole, and a common policy is needed, without which these energy price increases will be inexpensive for people in the long term and there will be huge administrative burdens for our citizens and businesses alike. Therefore, here we expect much more activity from the foreign service and much more national position of Latvia... Positioning on these issues. But, of course, it should be borne in mind that the first challenge is to cope with today's energy prices. On long-term plans, I call on everyone to take a deep breath and think sensibly, because we already remember in Latvia what it means to make decisions based on emotions in the area of green energy by introducing a mandatory procurement component, which ended in years' time in citizens' wallets and what our citizens think about the components of compulsory procurement and the payments they have to pay for it today. Even despite promises from the various political parties to end it, we can see that this cannot be done at all. This remains a huge burden on the public budget, and we need to be very careful when adopting the strategic objectives of the future... with an understanding of what it will cost us in a number of years. That's why... and it is an issue that should be considered very carefully not only at the level of Latvia, but at the level of the European Union as a whole, listening to this discussion on the construction of nuclear power plants, on the various potential directions for the development of green energy... All this must be considered very carefully. With regard to the European Union's green course, we see very ambitious challenges, but unfortunately, we still do not see clear content on how we will achieve these challenges. And we, in particular, the Union of Greens/Farmers, will undoubtedly stand up for defending the rights of our farmers. They account for 22 percent of exports, and together with forests they account for 47 percent of our country's exports. Let us stand out for their competitiveness in particular, so that it is not reduced by introducing the principles of the green exchange rate, and so that the support instruments are sufficient when implementing this policy. When we talk about the future of the European Union itself, we would like to remind us once again that the reduction of national powers and the concentration of power in Brussels will destroy Europe. And with those words... Deciding what the next one will be... and what the future for the European Union will be, I also call on my colleagues to think about it, and these will be the principles that we will continue to follow. Colleagues, it is undoubtedly important that we also consider the issue of the Diaspora. The Diaspora issue is also reflected in this report, with concrete examples of good work being done. Undoubtedly, these are good work on the fact that the people of the Diaspora can vote by post in municipal elections, and there will also be easier areas for the Saeima elections. However, with regard to the involvement of the elections, it is more important, in the opinion of the Union of Greens/Farmers, that a Diaspora voter, a resident living outside Latvia, can vote for the particular region from which he left. So that a person who leaves Latgale and lives in London can vote for a person who lives in Latgale, so that a person who has left Kurzeme and lives in Dublin can vote for those candidates who are also starting from Kurzeme, so that these voices can be divided, so that we leave in some way so that these votes are automatically counted to the capital Riga and that people are made to vote for people who they may not know at all, just about, say, lists. Such an approach is not the right one in the long term and, in our view, should be changed, people should be given the opportunity to vote abroad for the area from which he left, for those people he knows best. It will also increase human activity in the Saeima elections. But about the policy of the Diaspora as a whole. Colleagues, we in the Group of the Greens/Family Union, believe that the policy of the Diaspora as a whole needs to be restarted. Currently, the policy of the Diaspora speaks very well and successfully to Latvians outside Latvia, but we will allow you to say that it is a very small part of our countrymen who are addressed with these instruments. A very large part of Latvia – men and women who work... do a hard job in Ireland, England, Germany... These people, and I also say this from personal experience, from conversations with these people – feel forgotten. We do not reach them in the Diaspora policy. There is a great challenge here and the question of how we can restart the policy of the Diaspora, which I think is one of the greatest challenges the foreign service has to face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U22	Thank you. On behalf of the ‘Independence’, Member of the ‘Aldis Gobzems’.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U23	Hello! I asked you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U24	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U25	Hello, dear colleagues and society! I would like to thank Mr Rinkēvičs for his extensive report. In my due time, I will give it my assessment and I will draw your attention to a number of important aspects, in my view. First. The Foreign Minister's report does not seem to be original. By making some cosmetic corrections, it was possible to read it last year, and it will also be useful for the next year's minister. The report analyses unnecessarily the international geopolitical situation, although I am aware that a small insight into it is needed in the context of the work and plans of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I do not lose the view that the aim of this advanced information is to give an impression on the Members of the Saeima and to show how much the Minister is looking at the international problem, how deep and multifaceted, how diplomatically and linguistically rich he can describe global processes. It's a little bit too much. It is a typical process, not an act of human behavior. It is a very effective tactic, because when we drown our phrase at sea, the most important thing remains behind the frame – what then national interests of Latvia are in it and what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing and will do in the implementation of it. I would like to point out to Mr Rinkēvičs that the Saeima also reads international media and focuses on geopolitical issues. We do not expect static information about this, but we want a clear report on the actual and planned actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Secondly. I and, I am sure, many of my parliamentary colleagues, and society as a whole, would like to have clearly defined Latvian national interests in each of the main regions or countries that are interested in us, such as our national interests in the Baltic States, among the other Member States of the European Union, Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, the United States, China and elsewhere in South East Asia. I want to hear a clear and precise definition of Latvia's national interests, not smoothed phrases, copied from the political documents of the European Union. I do not want to hear that we are joining this or that, but what exactly our interests we are trying to achieve, how and why. This report among the rows highlights one of the greatest problems of Minister Rinkēvičs – obsession with participation in various international organisations and participation in all possible forms of multi-faceted cooperation. This makes it easy to hide behind the respective organizations, not to talk about their national interests, not to deal with true diplomacy, that is, building and developing bilateral relations with other Heads of State and Foreign Ministers. This shows again the minister's orientation towards the process and not the result. Thirdly. I would like to see a clear description of how cooperation with the President of the State and the representatives of the Saeima is taking place in the context of foreign affairs. Is it not the case that the Minister is flying in one orbit, the President of Latvia – in another space and the Head of the Saeima Chairman and the Foreign Affairs Commission is simply flying in politicalism to Brussels or exotic lands? Minister! The Saeima troupe is now a virtual place for open criticism and not just for smoothed phrases. Fourth. Your report is active in circumventing the issue of improving the work of our embassies and assessing their work, an objective evaluation. I would like to hear how our embassies promote and promote the representation of the interests of Latvian companies in the countries concerned. This is a huge subject that is simply completely ignored in the Rinkēvičs report. And finally. We're here... Our neighbours are facing a major military escalation, and the United States, the European Union and the United Kingdom... Heads of State do not exclude the imposition of significant and unprecedented economic sanctions against Russia and Belarus. Various sources outside the government's official channels of information do not rule out a significant threat of military conflict, let alone security threats. All this can have a huge and devastating impact on Latvia's economy and citizens' well-being. Have we heard a more far-reaching analysis of the Minister? No, no! Did we hear patterns of action in one situation or another? No, no! I think that apart from this important section of the report, the others are rather irrelevant. Once again the process, not the result. Empty words presented with a serious facial expression. But if specifically, the question to Rinkēvičs – is he informed about NATO response content for Russia as well as, less likely, is he informed about US response content for Russia? This is the most recent foreign policy today. But there is no word in the report that was read today. On the specificity of speaking. First. We are imposing sanctions against Russia and now also Belarus. Are there any results on how sanctions affect these countries? The economies of both countries continue to grow during the sanctions. The current account balance of Russia in 2021 is plus USD 123 billion, it is a practically new record. In turn, due to sanctions, we have sacrificed one of Latvia's economic sectors – transit – which have exacerbated the economic situation in Latgale. Is it not that we ourselves suffer more from sanctions? Our NATO colleagues continue to trade actively with Russia, but we do not. Would it not be fair to ask for solidarity and to compensate the border countries for the damage caused by the imposition of sanctions? Secondly. Is it planned to send Latvian soldiers to Ukraine? There is no word about this in the report. Thirdly. What are the economic benefits of the country from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2021 – the euro... purely mathematically? How much has the country earned from Rinkēvičs's flights in business class and wine-drinking salons? Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have such assessment criteria at all as well for the work of ambassadors abroad? How many countries have improved trade balance for Latvia? You could also talk about Rail Baltica, but that is not the subject of Rinkēvičs. That is obvious. In the field of external trade, the promotion of ‘SAF Tehnika’ exports was a success. An iceberg of corruption, I apologise, Normund Bergs – wasn't it the "Unity" general sponsor? I don't want to make a mistake again. Also ‘Tilde’. What is generally the trade promotion and investment plan of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the exception of water casting and butter milling. What is the Moneyval progress report? Simply put, we are bowed down and committed, that is to say, we no longer have our own financial system. Finally. A great deal of focus is on the European Union, the Transatlantic... allinization... and the United But foreign policy is very localizable with its ‘I’. Of course, travelling to Tallinn, Vilnius, Helsinki and Stockholm is not as exciting as having to turn around in Western European and outskirts. But I think the real foreign policy with its contribution is much closer to home. And let us not forget the essential part of the flag of Belarus. What contributed to the security and territorial integrity of Latvia was the removal of the official flag of a neighbouring country during the hockey championship only because a few days earlier, a photograph of the Minister of Foreign Affairs appeared in public... not for each and not for each... a hockey in a hall without a mask during restrictions? Thus, at the end. Did we hear patterns of action in one situation or another from Mr. Rinkēvičs? No, no. I say all this, of course, with a small irony, with sadness, because I understand that Mr Rinkēvičs is asking too much. These questions should be addressed to the person of the action, not to the person of the process. The doer, not the speaker, should be addressable. Let us hope that the next Foreign Minister will be that way, because these are the last months in the public administration. And then Mr. Rinkēvičs will have gone. One or with the company. Where exactly... or on all sides of the sky. Although in the first class, as the master will get used to, only this time for his own money, not taxpayers' money. Those taxpayers, as I have heard, cannot support Mr. Rinkēvičs forever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U26	On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance, is Member Edwin Schnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear colleagues, The Group of the National Alliance broadly agrees with the vision of the international situation outlined in the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Security has become a key foreign policy priority today, as was the case in 2014. The aggressive behaviour and hybrid war between Russia and Belarus have led our country to take emergency steps and declare a state of emergency at the border. Not all our Western partners like the way Latvia, Lithuania and Poland withstand this hybrid attack, so the task of foreign services is to explain Latvia's actions and try to get them as much support as possible among European partners. We welcome the progress made, but at the same time draw attention to aspects that need to be improved. This concerns, in particular, the assistance of partners in protecting the European Union's external borders. I would remind you that when there was a migration crisis in southern Europe, Latvia, within the framework of Frontex, sent its own coastguard ship and its own border guards there. Today, the crisis is in our region, we expect adequate assistance from Frontex. However, as our border guards acknowledge, Frontex colleagues are more busy writing complaints about the work of our border guards than helping prevent irregular border crossings. We believe that Latvia, together with the countries of the region, should try to change this situation by convincing the Western partners as the main responsibility of the border guard – to protect the external border of the European Union and not to perform the role of the transferor, only by regulating the flows of migrants. The next problem highlighted by the migration crisis is the status of asylum seekers in our country. It cannot be that a person who wants to get to Germany and does not want to stay in Latvia is forced by power to do so. This is contrary to the values of the European Union itself. It would be in Latvia's interest to change the relevant norms of the European Union, because, as demonstrated by past practice in the centres of asylum seekers in Latvia, the country is forced to spend huge amounts of money, earning interpreters and providing living conditions for persons who are still fleeing Latvia and who, after they have been caught, are taken back to Latvia in the Member States of the European Union, and the process begins from the end. This is a completely absurd situation and needs to be changed. We believe that persons who have provided false information to the Latvian authorities and have arbitrarily left our country cannot claim asylum seeker status in Latvia. This position should be expressed loudly by Latvia, work to ensure that the legal framework of the European Union is changed accordingly. The escalation of the situation at Ukraine's borders and Russian provocative ultimates have updated our military cooperation within NATO as well as beyond. We see campers for a military union between Poland, Great Britain and Ukraine. We believe that Latvia should also be actively involved in the forms of military cooperation involving the countries of the nearest region, including Poland and Ukraine, as well as those NATO members that have shown that they will not veto their weapons in the fight against aggressive Russia at a crucial moment, as Germany has recently unfortunately done. And in conclusion. In view of the fact that the Saeima is examining a draft law according to which Latvian citizens will pay compensation for the denationalised property of the Soviet occupations of 40 million euros, we invite the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to raise the issue of the losses caused by the Communist and Nazi regimes internationally and to demand recovery of these losses from countries that are legal heirs to these criminal regimes, namely Germany and Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U28	Thank you. Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U29	Hello! Do you hear me? Hello! Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U30	Yes, Mr. Pabrik, we hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U31	Thank you. Dear Saeima! Everyone here! Today, when we are debating Latvia's foreign policy, we cannot forget Latvia's security policy either. On the one hand, by thanking all those diplomats in history who have stood up for an independent state that has achieved our recognition, which has maintained the principles of Latvia's state and the idea of independence in the occupation times, we cannot forget that Latvia's security and ability to exist were ensured by a very strong Latvian armed force. Today, these days, these weeks, we are faced with a very difficult situation in which an unexpected form of ultimatum has been presented to the whole Western world. And it is no longer a question of Ukraine, it is a question of the future of our entire Western society, of whether we will maintain a common approach to this ultimatum or not. If Ukraine falls, if we fail to provide Ukraine with sufficient support, then the next in this... ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U32	Dear colleagues, There is a technical disturbance, let the Minister of Defence, if possible, assess and regularise this situation and give the floor afterwards. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U33	Thank you, colleagues. I'm sorry... I would also have liked to hear colleagues in the defence minister and perhaps commented on something, but since there are technical problems, I would also like to give some insight and answers to the proposals, criticisms and ideas that have been put forward in the debate. First of all, I would really like to thank both the Speaker of the Saeima, the Prime Minister, Mr Kola, the Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the leaders of the political groups. I think that what we have heard both in my report and in particular on foreign policy... Our foreign policy, as expressed in the debates of both the Saeima and executive officials, is united in our security policy, and I think each of the speakers stressed some nuance. I fully agree that one of the work to be done by the Speaker of the Saeima – in the Baltic Assembly and in the Baltic Council we are holding the Presidency this year, in an extremely difficult situation for the Presidency. And the priorities that have been set – security, cooperation in the field of transport and digital – will have to be implemented together by all of us – both the Saeima, our delegation to the Baltic Assembly and the Prime Minister, and the Ministers of Industry, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the Baltic Council of Ministers, respectively. Of course, as the Baltic Council is interested in working even more closely with the northern partners, with the countries of Visegrad, with the countries of Benelux and, of course, with the United Kingdom, in these difficult circumstances. I would also like to address the concerns expressed by Mr Gobzema about the fact that the President of Latvia, the Speaker of the Saeima, the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Affairs Commission, say, do not pursue a unified foreign policy. On the contrary, we have very regular contacts, mutual coordination, and I would like to say that it is in our foreign policy that cooperation between different branches of our country, unity is very good, both here, in Latvia and beyond. The Prime Minister also touched a little more on the issues on the agenda – climate change, implementation of the green course. Here, we very much hope that we will also be able to agree internally on the necessary action. There are different types of problems that need to be addressed. This policy is new for all, there are also very well-founded sectoral concerns here in Latvia, there are also justified concerns in the European context – what needs to be done, what needs to be done – but that is why we are also ready to work on these issues together with colleagues this year. This year could also be quite important from the point of view of our national interests, in the sense that both the various types of reduction, the different emissions and, of course, the wider support that will be given to the Member States in order to implement this course of action are being discussed. So thank you to the Prime Minister for reminding him of these issues, which are undoubtedly broader than the task of only one ministry. Mr Kola also analysed the strategic compass of the European Union quite extensively. I can only agree. What I would like to say is that I think we are in a situation where there is only one important thing. The European Union must promote its security and defence capabilities, both militaryly and non-militaryly, but none of what the European Union does can come in any kind of contradiction... or, in parallel, to create something that is a challenge to the basis of European security, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Mr Pouce spoke of an increase in the defence budget. I have already noted in my speech the need to increase defence expenditure. I think, of course, that we have to take into account the overall state of public finances, look at how much and what we can afford, but 2.5 percent in the next two to three years must still be the goal to be achieved, because, as I said, I think that this situation in which we are will not just be absorbed and that we will be under constant stress. But I would also like to remind you once again that expenditure on strengthening our internal security is as essential as that on defence expenditure. Not only for the construction of the border, not only for the State Border Guard, but for the joint strengthening of the institutional capacity of internal security institutions. Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas mentioned two very important aspects in my view. Poland as a strategic partner... cooperation with Poland. I think that it is precisely the hybrid attack by the Lukashenko regime on our borders, on Poland's borders and on Lithuania's borders that cooperation is taking place in the area of defence is essential. We see Poland not only as an important partner in defence and security issues, but... whether, if you look at the map, it is in our national interest to strengthen cooperation with Poland also in terms of energy and transport links. By 2025, the Baltic electricity networks should be synchronised with the trans-European networks. And this can only happen through interconnections, which must be established between Poland and Lithuania. The same – Rail Baltica, the same – transport issues. So all these issues are important and we are open to promoting cooperation. We are also ready to support Poland on a number of issues that also affect its Eastern Partnership policy and intentions. Here, too, we are united. There is no doubt that cooperation with Poland, other countries in the region and special cooperation within NATO is and will be our priority on these issues. Protection of information space is essential. I think we see what is happening, but I would also like to hope that we will be proportionate. Often, with each other's criticisms in social networks... Perhaps everyone wants the media to reflect one or the other information, but let us not forget that in order for society to be informed, so that decision-makers can make the right decisions, there are many different points of view, because it strengthens our resilience to disinformation at the end of the day and society. But all of this really must be very balanced, and I think that the changes made by the Saeima and the new laws adopted by the Saeima to establish both the Public Electronic Media Council and strengthening the media space, as well as the public media space financially, are a step in the right direction. Undoubtedly... last one, which Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas said: The Three Seas Initiative meeting, the range of issues that will be discussed there, we also have, as I said in the speech, essential. Thank you also to Mr Valaiņš. I would say that from the point of view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are fully prepared to work on the issues you mentioned – both electoral rights... There, though, I understand, more is a question not so much for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as really for lawyers, more precise and correct, for example, election issues. But about the Diaspora things. I have to say that, in my opinion, here I would only be happy to cooperate with both Member Valaini and my colleagues in the Ministry would be happy to work together, as well as for the production of new ideas by the Diaspora organisations. You talked about the Diaspora Restart, or politics with the Diaspora Restart. I would say that the Diaspora itself is indeed initiatives rich, with many interesting ideas. And any more detailed ideas from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on my part, would only be welcome. If so, you would be happy to discuss it with you as well. Aldis Gobzems, the leader of the independent group, mentioned several things here. Well, I'd like to say that we have a lot of myths. For example, the myth of how terrible the sanctions policy has been for Latvia and trade with Russia. No, actually, compared to 2020, 2021... There's no data yet at the beginning of 2022, but they'll soon be... In fact, trade has increased by 44 percent. Total amount... In fact, trade with Russia is 6 per cent of total trade. In fact, people here really like to talk a lot about the negative effects of sanctions. I would say that we hear more about this narrative in Russia's various propaganda channels. I think we need to look at the facts here. I can also comfort you that the embassy's work is constantly analysed both in terms of economic indicators and in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is exactly what we are working on with the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And here, in my opinion, it may be worth taking part in the work of the Committee on European Affairs or the Committee on Foreign Affairs and getting more information. As regards the migration policy mentioned by Mr Schnores, I think we agree here that the European Union, given that migration is being used as an instrument in the context of a hybrid attack... and we have talked about this, both with the responsible European institutions and officials and together with many like-minded countries. There is no doubt a need for reform of a broad migration policy on these issues. We are well aware of how difficult this will be for the 27 countries, but that does not mean that they are not working on it. The Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the Prime Minister within the framework of the Council of Europe work on this. Of course, the process will not be so simple, but I think understanding of things that can be changed has increased. Well, and, of course, the last one on the recovery of losses from Russia in connection with the losses caused by the Soviet occupation, I both have great hopes, and also the commission responsible... which has been created for a long time... also a special association, will work actively enough and more information will be provided, more facts to work with. But in conclusion, I would like to say that we have talked about this issue both with our colleague, the ministers of education and science, and with the President of Latvia. We see the need... and this is very important on the part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot do so – to strengthen the research of the country's history. It is important for us that we have a new shift of historians, who study academicly the history of the 20th century, which can rebut the various defamations we hear from propaganda channels in Russia, and we also see such special attacks in academic circles. This is also important in order to explain, study and talk about the considerations that Mr Schnores mentioned in relation to the Soviet occupation period. But here we really also need to strengthen this academic dimension of historical research, but we still need to find an opportunity to strengthen our academic community, and then, of course, it will also strengthen the narrative, which is essential at the national level, in order to rebut the various kinds of falsehoods, variations in different kinds of facts and attempts to rewrite history, which we still do... assets... We're also working from our big neighbour... Thank you so much. This would be in response to statements made by both senior state officials – the Speaker of the Saeima, Prime Minister, Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission – and group leaders. And, of course, I will listen with interest to the opinions, proposals, criticisms, and in some time I will probably come back – to debate further and respond. Thank you, Madam President of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U34	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U35	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! I apologise for the technical disruption. I will try to say thank you once again, very briefly, for our foreign service, of course, and to address precisely security issues, so as not to interfere with the work of the Saeima. So that's what I'm talking about, the second one. So what do we think is the main thing here? And what is the most dangerous? If we look at the current situation, which is at our borders, which is at the borders of Ukraine and which is at the borders of all Europe, then we see that Russia has changed. But – Russia has not changed for the good, but for the bad. That is, if we compare today's Russian ultimates with those of 2008, when Russia attacked Georgia, or in 2014, when Russia annexed to Crimea, then we see that Ukraine has now become a tool, but the goal is to move forward. The goal is to bring disagreements within the European Union and NATO – with the hope that these organizations may be afraid, perhaps not reacting as necessary, and Russia will once again gain strategic dominance over all the countries that she calls only the territories over which, after the Second World War, she dominated with her cruel occupation regime. What should be done? First of all: I think that, regardless of the fact that we can rely on NATO's internal solidarity, on Article 5, we need to think like those countries that are not NATO, like Finland, for example. In particular, we need to develop our armed forces as much as possible. We must be prepared for any surprises. And if we want our security to be guaranteed, so that our soldiers are ready, we need to see the development of our armed forces not only in the context of military capacity but also as a common state readiness, as a society preparation, as a ability to stand for its own country and its own values, and also economic development. Here you will have heard – at the beginning of this week I have encouraged my colleagues in the government... I have spoken to our Prime Minister as well as to the President's Office about the need to increase the defence budget in the coming years, because we see that Estonia has also taken this step. It looks like Lithuania will do it in the near future, because time does not wait. That's our idea... for the defence industry... is as follows: I think that in the next three years we must achieve that the defence budget – with your support from the Saeima – in Latvia is 2.5 percent of gross domestic product. Here I would really like to call both the honourable Speaker of the Saeima, Mrs Mūrniece, the Heads of the Foreign Affairs Commission, the Heads of National Security Commission and the President of the State to address this issue, because when the challenges are at our border, it will be too late to raise the budget. We cannot prepare so quickly; we cannot make so fast purchases; we cannot invest so quickly in Latvian industry. I would like to say that these two-and-a-half percent would be largely related to the further development of the defence industry in Latvia, so that we could ensure ourselves; that we would not only have our own provision and armaments, but also have additional jobs, there would be delivery systems, because if we came in – don't give God! – in a crisis situation and – don’t give God! – in a war situation, then there is no guarantee that we will receive from countries from which we could receive either ammunition or weapons or the rest... there is no guarantee that we will receive it at the time we need it. So that I would very much call for all the opportunities to be used so that these 2.5 per cent will still be accepted by this Saeima. I very much hope for your understanding that protection is important to us and that if we fail to protect Latvia, if we want to repeat someone... In 1939 or 1940, all of this will no longer matter. So I look forward very much to the support of the Saeima. Go on. I think we need to work very seriously with our allies in the Baltic Sea region, with countries such as Finland and Sweden and Poland. We have also talked to the Defence Ministers about the fact that, at the next Nordic-Baltic Summit, we would also like to invite the Ukrainian Defence Minister to show that, on the one hand, what is happening in Ukraine also affects us, but on the other hand, we would also be able to better prepare everything that is related to security in this region. As regards the European Union. In the European Union, it is very important for us to point out, as a country, that we do not need only paper, documents, we do not need only plans that do not make a real contribution; we need to be clear that, if the European Union adopts a text, adopts a resolution, adopts a plan, it will actually help us in our foreign policy and will help us in terms of security. I also support the calls in the field of protection, in the field of border protection, which are linked to the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to change migration policy in Europe, because the migration policy that exists in the European Union at the moment, perhaps in the 1990s, is in line with the understanding of life and values, but not today's understanding. We cannot allow a situation where, as we have heard, Commissioner Johanson comes and says: we will not give you any money to ensure the border, but we will give you the refugee camps. That, dear friends, doesn't go through. I am pleased that Mrs von der Leiens is also starting to change this attitude slowly; that slow funds are starting to flow in this direction. But the question has not yet been resolved... Neither on the financing of borders, nor on the change in the common policy that will take years, and I hope that Latvia will be very active in this regard. We also see that this energy policy, which is, to a large extent, also linked to security, our energy security, receives speeds within the European Commission. And here we have, I think, a point of contact... perhaps not one of many, but also a point of contact with countries such as France, which is continuing to develop nuclear energy. Energy is green energy. The time has come for us to raise again the issue of energy security and precisely nuclear energy; there are these first 500 million which the European Union seems to be prepared to give to research. I think that for the Baltic countries... Latvia must be one of the first in this respect to require this investment and research money to come to us too, so that we can be clear about how we can finally ensure greater energy independence and security and also a cleaner environment. At least from my point of view, nuclear research is exactly the direction. Another thing that concerns the defence sector. I would also like to inform the honourable Saeima that about a month ago we... was a very, very good decision between all three Baltic Defence Ministers. And on this issue too, as on the budget question of 2.5 per cent, we will need support from the Saeima. I very much look forward to your support. In particular, we have agreed among defence ministers – Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania – that we are making the Baltic region one operational region by learning from our historical mistakes and seeing the aggressive Russian policy. This means that our soldiers should be able to move across the border without any legal obstacles and help each other: Latvians should be able to be in Estonia and Lithuania, Estonians – in Latvia and Lithuania, and Lithuanians – in Latvia and Estonia. And in this respect, of course, we need the support of the Saeima. This will greatly strengthen our security. This will also allow us to plan further cooperation, much higher, between the defence forces of the Baltic States, and this will show any hypothetical opponent that we are ready to stand up for the security of the entire region. Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable Members of Parliament! I will end this small speech in the defence sector in the hope of cooperation. I wish Latvia the life of the sun. And I hope that no one will ever challenge our borders, but to do this, we must be ready for ourselves – we must be motivated, ready for soldiers and good armor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U36	Thank you to the Minister for Defence for taking part in the debate, and thank you for the new defence initiatives. Dear colleagues, Let us continue the debate. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U37	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, Minister for Foreign Affairs! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Excellency! Colleagues and everyone who listens to us! The legislator of the Republic of Latvia, the Saeima, will begin the second centenary this year, but the work of this Saeima, and therefore work in the field of foreign policy, will be evaluated by the public by electing 14. The Saeima is already in the autumn of this year and will make a choice for the next four years. The tense relations in the region and in the world lead us to conclude that the role of foreign affairs will be growing and the Saeima will have to work together with the foreign service and other state services, together strengthening the security and role of Latvia internationally. It is in the coming years that we have to work on Latvia's candidacy for the UN Security Council seat of the unstable Member State in the 2025 elections. In previous years this task, which has long been set by Latvia, has sometimes raised questions about why we should be involved at UN level and what we can do there, but the current situation in the region and in the world shows increasingly clearly that Latvia cannot stand by and not stand by. In this respect, we can remember that the European Union is now represented by only one permanent member state since Britain left the European Union, and therefore the promotion of Latvia's visibility... in the new regions... is essential for our possible operation in the Security Council... At a time when we would work in Tandem with France, we could strengthen the voice of the European Union. Estonia's example last year is 2021. – the year, acting as a volatile member of the Security Council, showed that small countries in the Security Council can also influence the agenda and make a significant contribution to international security. The time before the UN Security Council elections in 2025 is for us to show with our works the Latvian expertise based on a long-standing experience in a sufficiently complex region like ours – that we also have a global vision and can make our contribution far beyond Europe's borders. ‘ Mom, will there be war? Teacher, will the war be?” – the precarious situation in our region has reached families and schools. Many of us expect to see concerns and hopes tomorrow with the latest news of tensions between Ukraine and Russia, or West and the Kremlin. On 17 December last year, the Russian ultimatum NATO has further turned the focus on our region. And Latvia must use all diplomatic channels in this situation to actively support Ukraine as well as our other eastern partners. I cannot remain indifferent to Latvia's wish that we, Latvia, do our utmost to resolve this conflict peacefully, because now, as analysts write, matches are taking place at the petrol barrel. Last week, together with Parliamentarians from 11 countries, a letter was written to draw attention to the mass displacement of Russian troops to Belarus; it is officially called preparations for training. With our colleagues in the Baltic Assembly, we also use the opportunity to focus on regional security; this should be known by our colleagues in other countries of the European Union and in other inter-parliamentary organisations. This year, we have the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly, and we will continue to be active. I am proud that Latvia is for Ukraine in this security context... and over recent years, has provided great support in a wide range of formats – bilaterally, within the European Union and international organisations – by strengthening Ukraine, as far as we can now... with safety; in advance – a lot... through various democratic support mechanisms, transferring their experience. Last December... The decisions taken at the Eastern Partnership Summit (including the establishment of an economic and investment plan) amount to EUR 2.3 billion in investment – financing in Ukraine. This clearly signals the European Union's position. I would like to say that since 2014, the European Union has supported Ukraine with EUR 17 billion. And last December, the Council of the European Union approved a decision on the implementation of assistance measures to strengthen the capabilities of the Ukrainian armed forces under the European Instrument... Peace Facility... within the scope of 31 million, and Latvia also offers its assistance in the military field together with other Baltic States... directly. Moldova and Georgia, as Eastern Partnership countries, have also received support from Latvia, both bilaterally and through international organisations, community of friends and our experts. We need to continue this work more purposefully, looking for new opportunities for transferring Latvia's experience, because Latvia's contribution to these countries has already been noticed and highly appreciated. And, in violation of the development cooperation plan, I must thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the progress made in development cooperation policy. And with satisfaction it must be concluded that for the first time since... within the last five years... This year, the Ministry's funding for bilateral development cooperation budget has increased. The Saeima has confirmed a gradual increase in funding between 2022 and 2024. In the year 1996. It is a very important signal that we support peace and security, and democracy in the world, especially in our priority regions, not only by words but also by works. We have increased funding three times... We will have increased three times, but it is still far behind our neighbours – the rest of the Baltic States. And so it is important that we invest this money, which we now have, in a targeted, intelligent way, so that we can help with a broader and more lasting effect. And with great hope, I am looking at the establishment of a development agency, which is now under way. And it's about security. If, a year ago, our nomination to the UN Security Council... We should think about a special campaign in which we would argue for our membership of the world of democratic countries, where we can see the world wide and think regionally and globally, then... In my opinion, this campaign has already started in itself and is forcing us to continue to work actively on this subject, because the present threat to our eastern partners has not yet been one that makes us watch... so that we do not enter into this conflict ourselves, because the outcome in this crisis is difficult for us to predict, but we can do what we can to do. The warm-up of our cooperation has unfortunately taken place in such a way as to keep the crisis, protecting our... the eastern border of the European Union. The hybrid attack, as several speakers have already pointed out here before, has brought the Baltic States together... and Poland... and in a quick way... has prevented physical threats at the borders of our countries. But we have also managed (and work on it must continue) to convince the international community and the European Union's leaders about the true face and causes of events, preventing targeted disinformation campaigns from taking over people's minds and emotions. This was the next turning point last year in the perception of crises and also in the way we tackle borders within the European Union and how we have revealed the true face of the Belarusian power. I regret to conclude that Alexander Lukashenko's regime today... and continues to desperately drive the Belarusian people through historic war scenarios, by which he will apparently seek to change the constitution, which will allow him to continue to take up an unlegitimate position, to sow among the people fear of an external enemy by means of terror. Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Please combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U38	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U39	Although the staff of the Embassy of Latvia in Belarus was expelled from Belarus last May, I am pleased that Latvia has continued to provide support to Belarusian civil society through international formats, European Union programmes and practical assistance in the form of various development cooperation projects. I very much hope that this year, we will be able to continue to engage in strengthening the democratic opposition in Belarus, support the families that have been repressed, pass on our experience and, above all, untiringly give moral support to those who are ready to fight for civil change at all costs, so that the last European totalitarian regime really disappears forever. In this debate, I would also like to mention the progress made in the policy of the Diaspora. I would remind you that we have adopted the Diaspora Act and have set up various support mechanisms, significantly increasing the budget for this purpose. The average age of our countrymen now ranges from about 35 to 45 years. It is full of strength for any Latvian person, and Latvia definitely needs these people here, on the spot, and also in its home countries. I very much hope our Saeima, 13. The Saeima, and the next Saeima will continue to support the policy of the Diaspora, continue to invest in financing and create links with Latvia... with the people of Latvia, with countrymen with various events in the places where they live, maintaining a sense of belonging to the state and promoting language... but also making use of these people and opportunities – with investment in the economy, science, education, culture and wherever we can work together – making Latvia more open to the world and the world more inclusive to Latvia. In conclusion, as in the previous foreign debate, I would like to mention young people who are actively involved in Latvia's foreign policy, and I hope that it will continue with the UN Youth Delegates' Programme, which last year has already elected a third representative from Latvia... as well as volunteers in one of the most important foreign policy forums in Latvia – Riga Conference. It is today, by the way, that the UN Programme for Youth Delegations hosts a conference on Human Security and Respect, where young people will discuss and talk about the solutions they need and will address three topics: Climate and human dignity, domestic violence and hybrid threats and human rights. I hope that these topics will also become part of Latvia's common foreign policy agenda, will be there and we will look for both local and international solutions. And by the end. Mr. Rinkēvičs and colleagues in the foreign service, everyone who is tirelessly providing Latvia's interests and security on a daily basis! Thank you very much for your work, for your cooperation. I sincerely wish us endurance, vigilance and that we should continue to feel as confident and confident in ourselves and our partners, raising and transferring this feeling to our families and our closest ones in this unstable time! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Members' registration is over. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U41	Dear colleagues, We shall continue the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 27 January 2022. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U42	High Minister for Foreign Affairs! Ministers! Members! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! The foreign policy debate – now for half a day today – has generally been rooted in a tradition and is one of the best examples of cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Saeima, based on a qualitative discussion. When you get to know the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, you can say with confidence that, starting with the second century of our country, we can still be truly proud of the Latvian Foreign Service's achievements in the protection of the interests of Latvian and Latvian citizens. In my speech today, I would rather like to speak specifically about the role of parliamentary diplomacy and, in particular, the role of the parliamentary assemblies of the Members of the Saeima. Parliamentary diplomacy over the past two years has undoubtedly been more rapid due to the Covid-19 pandemic than in the past, especially in the case of bilateral meetings between parliamentarians on-site. However, the work of Members of the Saeima in parliamentary assemblies has continued, and often also the remote internet site or the so-called hybrid regime. Thus, the Members of the Saeima have always been able to strengthen an effective working sazobie with the foreign service, which has helped the parliamentarians to express an important position to Latvia and to defend the interests of our allies in a secure way, for example, in the Council of Europe and other international organisations and parliamentary assemblies. My motive in parliamentary diplomacy has always been that the President of the Constitutional Meeting – the First President of Latvia and also the professor of international law at the University of Latvia – Jānis Čakste said: “The ability to be hypocritical is the privilege of the large states, the small states must be honest.” These words given to the students by European Great Democrat Jānis Čakste, in my opinion, have actually been put into the heart of our foreign service, this guiding motif – not hypocritical, but with a strong spine... as an obligation to keep this spine at all times, to stand up for values, not to bow to any interests, and always to be honest. As the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, together with my deputy, Artuss Neimins, members of the delegation, Krista Baumanis, Uldis Budrikis, Boris Cilevičs and Edgars Tavars, the last year was particularly important in the professional field, making Latvia's name heard by the Council of Europe and its Parliamentary Assembly. I would remind you that the Council of Europe is the oldest political organisation in Europe and now covers almost the entire continent of Europe, bringing together 47 European countries. Its original aim was to build a common democratic and legal space, ensuring respect and protection of its fundamental values – human rights, democracy, the rule of law and the rule of law – at the time, after the Second World War. Ensuring the rule of law and human rights after the collapse of the Soviet Union has been the cornerstone of our efforts for independence in the Baltic States. Become a member of the Council of Europe, which also includes ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, was one of the most important foreign policy objectives of the country that regained its independence. The wish to return to the European Union of Democratic States was already confirmed on 4 May 1990, a short moment after the declaration of independence, the second declaration adopted by the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia, in which the Council of Latvia undertook to lead its legislative work on the basis of the documents adopted by the Council of Europe and the European Parliament in the field of human rights. It became a full member of the Council of Europe 27 years ago, on 10 February 1995. At the time it clearly confirmed that Latvia, following the objectives of the Council of Europe, had already managed to integrate into Europe, ensured a fully functioning democracy, the rule of law and a competitive market economy. Next year, in May 2023, Latvia will take over the Presidency of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers from Iceland for the second time. It will also cover the activities and tasks of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. At present, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we, as a delegation, are working on the Latvian Presidency's objectives and tasks, thus giving concrete homework to the next, 14. The Saeima and its newly created Latvian delegation at the Assembly. Last year, the Latvian delegation was active in the following foreign and international security priorities of Latvia: First of all, at the initiative of our delegations, Lithuania and Poland, we ensured the preparation and adoption of EPPA emergency debates and reports on the situation on the three countries' borders with Belarus. In this debate, we repeatedly stressed that every hybrid threat should be given a precise name. We cannot comply with deliberately imposed defence tactics. Organised crime, human trafficking – cynical human trafficking! – rather than the migration crisis, and our task is to persevere in explaining this to our partners and allies in order to win it together and bring the perpetrators to justice. We also stressed once again that what is happening in Belarus is not possible without Russia's hidden involvement, so the Assembly decided to follow up on what is happening in Belarus, not allowing the issue of political processes in Belarus to disappear from focus. Secondly. Last year, together with our Baltic+ colleagues, we stood by, strongly condemning the illegal politically motivated arrest of Alexey Navalny by the Russian authorities and the declaration of a court judgment upon his return to Russia, thus seeking to silence the opposition and critics of the ruling system. We are pleased that our initiatives have resulted in the EPPA report on the poison of Alexey Navalny. It was voted yesterday by a strong majority in the Strasbourg Assembly and adopted by this EPPA plenary. And thirdly. But most of all, I would like to stress – our work has focused on persistent condemnation of Russian military aggression and hybrid attack in Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. It is our ambitious and persistent work day by day, strengthening the entire European Union's backbone in the long term. I would especially like to share with you my satisfaction about the visit to Ukraine as early as last summer – together with such a talented, prematurely called colleague Ojāra Ēriks Kalniņa – when we were invited to participate in the international inauguration of the Crimean platform in Kiev and the 30th anniversary of Ukraine's independence in parliamentary events (Not clear.) . I visited Ukraine at the time at the invitation of the EPPA delegation, while Ojār was invited to represent the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. During the visit to Ukraine, I also visited the borders and border points of the occupied Crimean peninsula at this aggressively occupied territory and confirmed the strong support of Latvia to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Crimea. I thank you that Ukraine can count on Latvia's support and we will continue our policy of non-recognition of Crimean annexation. The inauguration of the Crimean platform on 23 August was a symbolic reminder of the solidarity of the Baltic Way. And this fact gives us, our Ukrainian friends, the confidence that Ukraine, in the hand of allies, will regain not only hope but freedom itself in their own country. I ask you to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U43	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U44	However, we must always firmly stand up for the fundamental values, human rights, democracy and the rule of law of the Council of Europe in our own internal political dialogue, with us ourselves, here at home, in the Saeima. And such a strong political backbone will also help us to respond to the different types of hybrid wars and threats. In the hybrid war, enemies are also looking for weaknesses in our internal political rhetoric, and this results in fear of all the strangers sowing in society. If we ourselves are strong in our own protection of democracy and human rights, it will be much more difficult to hurt us. Protecting democracy and universal human rights as uncontested fundamental values will strengthen our position in international organisations and negotiations with allies, as well as the resilience of Latvian society to hybrid weapons, lies and misinformation. That is why, in this foreign policy debate, colleagues, I would also like to remind you of the absence of this Saeima's homework and the obvious duty of Latvia's full participation in the Council of Europe, namely the ratification by the Saeima of the Council of Europe Convention of 11 May 2011 on the Prevention of and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. This is also the point of contact for Latvia's foreign policy, security and international creditability and resilience to disinformation. I remind you that the Constitutional Court, in its judgment, recognising the Convention as conforming to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, has weighed and reasoned all the myths and stigmatized arguments in political culuars and tribunals, as well as social networking bubbles. In the judgment of the Constitutional Court it has been argued that the scope of application of the said Convention only covers the elimination of violence against women and domestic violence and the regulation of the Convention does not impose any special forms of marriage or family adoption or implementation in any member state of the Council of Europe. Thus, the judgment of the Constitutional Court only confirmed once again what each of you already knew – this is an international human rights document, and it complies with the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. Moreover, our Constitutional Court, in its judgment by the force of the law, has recognised the political contempt of the Convention and the incomprehensible strange dissemination of disinformation as unfounded and meaningless. Latvia is a highly developed parliamentary state based on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, so I sincerely believe that we will be able to set aside a pre-election sink, realizing that every drop of disinformation and political stigmatisation of an international human rights agreement increases the soil for new disinformation floods. This is also evident in the daily life of the social media bubbles associated with the Covid-19 epidemic, which are also politically conscious. Hate, grooming fear, and political lies only contribute to the disintegration of hatred and society. Here, in the debate on high political culture in the Saeima, there is no room for it. We simply cannot afford this hypocrisy. Friends, let’s leave it in this manger (I can’t hear.) ... The talented neighbouring country to the east of our external border between the European Union and NATO and the political satellites of the Kremlin in the Latvian political stage. The Council of Europe has also experienced a deep crisis in its fundamental values. This is confirmed by the decision of the Assembly of 26 June 2019 to restore Russian voting rights which were suspended in response to the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula in 2014. When deciding on the substance, the EPPA decided to allow the delegation of the Russian Federation to resume its work without restrictions at the Assembly and, despite the renewal of the right to vote, Russia continues to ignore its binding resolutions. Moreover, compared to 2014, the situation regarding human rights and the rule of law in Russia has deteriorated rapidly. However, we need to be aware that the Assembly is working on parliamentary democratic principles, taking decisions by majority, discussing them in national delegations, committee meetings, political groups or political groups, and influencing every decision-making is procedural and also from other points of view a philigre and a very large amount of work. So we cannot stay alone; we must work together with our friends and allies. This week, during the first ESPA session in 2022, the Latvian delegation, together with our colleagues and other Baltic+ delegations, has taken action to challenge the mandates of the Russian Federation delegations, has reached the rejection of Piotr Toolist as Vice-President of the Assembly. We have played an active part in the debate on contesting the mandates of our Russian delegation, in the debate on the investigation into the poisoning of Alexey Navalny, and we shall continue to coordinate with our Baltic+ colleagues in other important votes. I also have the true honor and responsibility... that I was elected yesterday as Chair of the Subcommittee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Due to the current epidemiological restrictions in France, this time only one member from the Saeima coalition and opposition is present in Strasbourg, and these are colleagues Krista Baumane and Boris Cilevič. We, the rest of us, are taking part in the EPPA debate and voting in the sittings at a distance. Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I truly believe that we, as the Saeima, will continue to work actively in parliamentary diplomacy as we start the second century of free and democratic national parliamentaryism, and I believe that if we ourselves are strong in our own protection of democracy and human rights, it will be much more difficult to hurt us. Protecting democracy and universal human rights as uncontested fundamental values – it will strengthen our spine and positions in international organisations and negotiations with allies, as well as strengthen and grow the resilience of Latvian society to hybrid weapons, lies and disinformation. High Minister for Foreign Affairs, thank you for your report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U45	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Uldis Budriks. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U46	The President of the sitting. High Minister for Foreign Affairs! In this debate, I will not be the one who will say that everything is bad. Not at all, the foreign service works well. And the points in your report are in line with the reality. There are, however, subjects for which I would like... to highlight such an individual point of view, so to speak, to pay close attention. In your speech you mentioned the championship – that we should be champions of human rights issues, which I cannot disagree with, but there are times when it is also necessary to turn it into works. You mentioned our strategic partners – USA, Australia, Canada and Japan. All these countries have announced that they will not send their diplomatic corps to the Olympic Games in Beijing. I understand that a compromise, a balance, is being sought. At the same time – do diplomats and journalists of our named partners also have the opportunity to visit, let's accept, the region of Xinjiang in China, the training camps there? Is dialogue possible when Hong Kong is oppressed by the pro-democratic sector? Are journalists and international missions in the Tibetan Plato region being launched? That's a reference. It is precisely today and tomorrow that a Tibetan former political prisoner is visiting Riga, who travels all European countries to draw attention to the continued violations of human rights in China, particularly in Tibet. Maybe... Perhaps you can find a moment to meet for a brief insight into this problem. In this sense, however, I call on the diplomats to consider and not to send them to the Olympic Games. I do not think that there is any balance between violations of human rights. And this unfortunately does not apply only to China. Reference is also made to the economic growth mentioned by the Prime Minister. I am delighted with Latvian mentality. If the work has to be done, it is done with a push. Unfortunately, there is also a negative aspect in this, namely the capital repairs of the financial sector. If you want to be good, you have done more than you need. Latvia is not the first choice for start-ups in the financial sector at international and in the Baltic level in particular. We can see this clearly if we compare the amount of investment attracted to the same fintech area – if we compare it with Lithuania. Especially now, when crypto currencies are no longer a concept of the future, and the ‘block chain’ is almost a word for a conversational language. International giants such as Binance, Revolut choose Lithuania. There is no need to look for an example – increasing the contribution of alternative investment funds, which, by its very nature, destroys long-term investment in Latvia for such a short-term benefit. In this sense, there has been an improvement over the last year, but we also see how much influence such seemingly dry regulations have on attracting investment. I therefore call on the Minister and all the Cabinets to pay greater attention to this. I understand that it is not just a foreign restaurant, but it is a joint work in a government that needs to be addressed. And finally. Ukrainian security is also our security. The national interests of Latvia are very closely related to it. The regime, which is trying to poison opposition representatives, is indicting terrorism, the sovereign states such as Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, and Georgia call dogs, called missing. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that the threat in Ukraine did not start last year, the war started seven years ago with the occupation of Crimea, the war in Doneck and Luhansk. What is happening at the moment is just such a rise in appetite. There will be no peace in Europe if there is no peace in Ukraine, so we need to protect it together. This will be a very difficult time for the Foreign Service. That is why I wish endurance. In general, as I said, the points are the right ones. Thank you to the Minister and, in particular, to the diplomatic service for their work, for their work. This is the time to express our gratitude to those diplomats and politicians who achieved Latvia's accession to NATO. This is something that we can assess at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U47	Thank Member Budric. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U48	Good afternoon, everybody! First of all, I will probably have to upset those who are in the expectation of the sweet war – for the good of all the bad. There will be no such war, at least in the transparent future. It is clear to everyone who understands something from geopoliticalism and is able to see and evaluate what is happening in geopolitical categories and principles, not to allow the psychosis that is being raised with the informative noise of what is happening, making it repel all the experts who, of course, no one dares to jump out of this installed war psychotic narrative. This raised information noise is beneficial to many. The power of the most countries that cannot successfully cope with their domestic work is therefore diligently exploited by these vibrations of fear to distract public attention from their inaction or their work to make people fear and experience something else – even more terrible. Here, we do not need to look at our neighbours to see examples of this. Moreover, the maintenance of such a noise and fear atmosphere is a very useful cover for trying to implement all kinds of business projects, procurements that would be irrational, for example, attempts to increase our military spending by several million more to strengthen our security in line with the new threats. Here, knowing that procurement has been carried out under the auspices of our Ministry of Defence, it is reasonable to suspect that this is done not in the interests of public security, but in order to get the community to acquire as much funding as possible in all procurements. We are NATO, and it is important in this geopolitical situation that Latvia fulfil its commitments to NATO, that we be a reliable partner to NATO and that we can count on NATO, and that is what we are already doing. This year we are even exceeding our commitments to NATO. This is enough and more than adequate for our country, which does not have enough money for health care, science, teachers or many other vital needs. If the existing coalition of power suddenly concludes that it can afford to spend millions of extra purchases on entos, I would remind you that you have not just found the money promised for doctors, oncology patients and much more important. I would call for this debate not to deal with the rejection and speculation of this war's psychosis, but to debate things that we can really influence with our efforts. Let this healing of psychosis remain for those who are not able to do anything else. As one wise man once said: “God, gives power to change what is changeable, to accept what is inevitable, and mind, to be able to distinguish one from another.” In the last foreign policy debate, I pointed to the dramatic challenges of the future, which await us in relation to the new technological opportunities. I called on the Minister to update it on the European agenda, to call on the forces of the European Union to meet these challenges. It would be interesting to know from Mr. Rinkēvičs who has actually come back in the meantime. This year, in view of what was happening in the energy field, I thought about how it would be better to implement the challenges of the green course, but seeing how successfully the political forces who are calling us to fight climate change are at the end of the snow in the streets of Riga, I realized that it would be more meaningful to leave this challenge behind for the next foreign debate, which will be in the next parliamentary term. Today I will touch on the energy challenges that already affect us in a painful way. And it will be even more painful if the right and necessary homework is not done. To do all the necessary homework, we would not be able to do our best. This also requires regional solutions. The current energy price leap is objective, independent of European action, and widely exposed to the public, such as the uncharacteristic conditions in Europe, which have significantly reduced energy generation from renewable sources, the rapidly growing gas consumption in other regions of the world, and so on. But there are also subjective reasons for European action that influence the development of energy prices even more importantly than these. They are being silenced, they are not being analysed, and this is a fundamentally wrong attitude to what is happening if we do not want to experience such price leaps again and again. I will mention two of the most important reasons. First. Too narrow and simplified European national approaches in implementing the green policy objectives. In particular, the introduction of more and more generation capacity (not controlled) from renewable sources without creating adequate back-up solutions increases the risks of price volatility and security of supply risks. Let me explain. Electricity is needed then and as much as it consumes at the given moment, not then and as much as wind blows or the sun shines. If these conditions coincide (wind blows when necessary), it lowers the price of electricity on the market, while if it does not coincide (if there is no wind), but energy needs and no efficient back-up solutions are created for the system, then it can be very costly. That's what happened. The existing regional energy system design has demonstrated its inability to provide efficient cost solutions in this situation, because European countries had confidence that this solution would be generated by the electricity market itself, provided that interconnections ensure sufficient interoperability between the different energy systems. That was not the case. And this is one of the issues that should be put on the European agenda: the creation and maintenance of an effective reserve capacity for such regional solutions when market mechanisms alone are not sufficient for them to be implemented. It is difficult, it is not economically feasible and cannot be tackled within a separate national energy system, and therefore it has not been addressed and will not be dealt with for a long time if someone is not concerned about it. Minister! Latvia has an opportunity to initiate it. At least half of Europe will be grateful for this. The second factor, which has a significant impact on the existing energy price drama and is closely linked to the above, with its catalytic effect, is natural gas. Europe has gone a long and difficult way to create the most liberal and speculative market model, while limiting the opportunities of dominant suppliers to create the maximum opportunities for all gas suppliers to compete with each other and European consumers... on European consumer wallets, in order to provide European consumers with the best possible offer. But the architects of the European gas market have made a fundamental mistake in their egocentricism. Such a market model can indeed work effectively for European consumers, but only on condition that the European market is desired and over-saturated by supply, but on the contrary, if markets more attractive than the European gas market are available, and this over-saturation of suppliers on the European market does not occur, then such a market model works on the contrary – provokes a rapid increase in gas prices. It's already happened. Moreover, if, at this point, other energy sources – wind, rain – are unexpectedly missing, and the solution to replace them is additional gas consumption, which no one has calculated and no one has made particular effort to satisfy it, then these conditions in the framework of Europe itself create a typhoon effect – a spiral of this price, contrary to the intended direction. This has resulted not only in gas but also in unprecedented electricity prices. We must be aware that Europe has lost its throne in the global economy. The pace of economic development and thus the increase in energy consumption will develop in other regions where gas suppliers are more convenient and advantageous to develop their supply solutions than in a difficult regulated European gas market, where, moreover, Europe itself lacks real clarity about the role of gas in the future. If we do not want to see the price leaps again and again, clarity must be introduced. Your homework is to be done, not just to regret the adverse externalities. Yes, our external circumstances are not dependent on us, but it is up to us how painful they will affect us. According to public statements, the European Commission seems to have begun to understand this. It would also be important for us to understand this, because our gas market model has also given us the surprises that I already warned of when it was established several years ago. But we will talk about this at the next sitting, which will be convened today immediately after this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U49	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Alexander Kirštein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U50	Dear President, Honourable Members! I fully agree with what has been said that climate policy and digitalisation are one of the most important things in European Union policy. Here are some remarks. Unfortunately, it has to be said that climate policy is the main factor in the economic development of both the European Union and Latvia. We should think about what we can do together. Towards a European Union target of climate neutrality in 2050... it must not be viewed or viewed without any negative impact on our common development. This does not mean that the economy must be sacrificed to the climate... often. I think that one of perhaps such political mistakes was that no agreement was reached before decisions were made, such as reducing emissions by 55 per cent by 2030, and no political agreement was reached with countries such as the United States, China and India. Agreement... it should entail any reduction in consumption. Why? I'll give you a few numbers. If India declared in Glasgow that it will close coal stations only in 2070, then in Latvia it is time to influence rural pensioners with their little diesels... and taxing would not be the right course. Consumption will increase both in China, India and Africa. There are some interesting figures. The United States is currently spending twice as much energy on one of its citizens as German citizens. The population of the United States spends 16 times as much energy as that of India and 107 times as that of Haiti or any African country. Then the question is, will these billions agree that their standard of living remains at the current level or maybe a few times lower than in the United States or in the European Union? If there is no political agreement, then, of course, this race for growth in gross domestic product, for rapid economic development in all countries will continue and energy consumption will increase in geometrical progress. Of course, we now have a devastating impact on energy prices. Although Latvia was produced in December... and now in January produces around 105 to 110 percent of what we need, for example electricity, which does not benefit us, because energy is sold to stock exchanges, then we buy it at the maximum price back. It is a heavy blow for small entrepreneurs – from sawmills to dairy enterprises, from guest houses to large hotels, as well as various IT companies that consume electricity. Unfortunately, the rapporteur did not mention the erroneous decision of the European Union and its Commission... the role in these energies, so I am talking about political decisions. One such decision is... without analysing the facts... For example, above 10, in some countries, even 20 per cent of wind energy in the overall energy balance, the balance between renewables and fossil fuels is being disrupted without addressing the question of replacing these renewables. For example, last summer we saw that the wind did not blow in the North Sea for two months and the electricity capacity of Germany, Denmark and Great Britain disappeared from 10 to 20 percent. It happened that Germany was emptying its gas supplies and then resorting to preserved coal power stations. Swedes... which is extremely interesting, there is no gas distribution infrastructure at all. The Swedes started their oil thermal power stations, which are fuelled by diesel fuel or fuel oil. Estonia, of course, burned the tarstone. Poland burned coal. The second reason is unthinkable tax policy and pressure, which means that the increase in emissions charges and taxes will reduce investment in fossil energy resources. As a result, I look at statistics, last year... In 2020, the European Union reduced its gas production by 40 billion cubic metres and around 10 billion cubic metres of LNG or liquefied gas passed through the European Union because the United States and other suppliers sold it to the Pacific countries – Taiwan, South Korea and Japan – where prices were higher. So Europe did not get these 50 billion cubic metres of gas. The cost of emissions per tonne in the EU (i.e. per tonne of CO2) is now more than €60. An example of a silly decision could be the ban on wood and peat, for example. The wood... Well, we can still use it in the countryside, but we are going to give up wood by 2030. Let us compare millions of hectares each year in Siberia’s forests, which will continue for ten thousand years, and not only in Siberia’s forests. In the same way they burn in Australia, in the same way they burn in North America. And it's not related to any human activity, it's related to the storms. This has been the case for ten thousand years, and I think thousands of years will be in the future as well. Then let's compare emissions from millions of hectares of Siberian forests, where solid particles and various gases pass thousands of kilometres, with Latvia's efforts to ban wood here. Some words about illusions, wind energies. Yes, of course, as an additional energy it is very good, but in no case can it be regarded as a basic energy. Stanford... A very good study was published in the United States. In 2007, they had around a percentage, and now they have reached 9 percent. But this wind energy in the United States has extra energy. If it stops, the wind... deducting perhaps Texas, where we saw a disaster last winter... then actually they have basic energy, which they can provide with fossil, oil and gas, stocks. Professor Mark Jacobson of Stanford University has calculated that wind can generate five times more energy than it needs for global energy. So there needs to be some 10 billion tonnes if compared to oil, equivalent wind energy could replace 54 billion tonnes. But there is one disaster. In order to replace 12 percent of the emissions produced by the United States (i.e. only 12 percent of the world balance in the United States, China - 28 percent), around 700 thousand wind generators with 10 megawatt should be built in America... with a capacity of 10 megawatts at a height of approximately 250-300 metres. It will be comparable to a metal pillar about 210 thousand miles [210 thousand km] high. It turned out that there was not only so much steel in the world, but there was no iron ore that could be obtained at all. So theoretically, if we wanted to replace 12 percent of the emissions produced by the United States... We cannot even find so much iron ore in the world, not to mention the energy that would be needed to produce this steel – new mines, machinery and so on. Next – lithium, cobalt. When it comes to electrification of transport, different expensive metals... all require very expensive energy consumption. Volvo, for example, recently announced that their Volvo X40 electric variant produces 70 percent more emissions than its internal combustion engine. Toyota announced a few weeks ago that it would continue to improve the engines of internal combustion engines, because they will be in the United States by 2030, and they hope that these modern engines may be even more efficient in the future than electric engines. When it comes to electricity prices, it should be remembered that solar and wind energy, of course, is dependent on climatic conditions, but it has already been mentioned that the second problem is the accumulation of electricity, which is not going well, and that is something that we have not yet solved. In my opinion, it is very dangerous that the European Union is making a reduction in investment... Well, all this tax policy. Research and the discovery of new deposits are being reduced, fossil fuel power plants are being shut down, research is not taking place, and replacement capacities are desperately lacking, because we will need them, as we can now see. I beg you to unite my time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U51	The time for your debate is combined. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U52	Thank you. The same applies to gas. It should be said here that the lack of gas is not justified perhaps in the way we are told here, but the main thing is the transition: or the fact that we were forced, maybe not forced, it was a common decision, but no one in Latvia defended it... So the transition to gas exchanges. The European gas exchange has a large number of stock exchanges, the largest being the Dutch TTF. The number of real and speculative transactions exceeds one per ten, so ten times more there are speculative transactions – buys and then speculates, selling gas at huge prices. So the solution is to return to sound long-term contracts. A few words about agriculture. The current gas prices have resulted in a rather catastrophic situation with mineral fertiliser prices and have therefore risen from EUR 200 per tonne to 700, which means that a large part of Latvia's farmers will no longer use these fertilisers. As a result, food prices can rise several times. Actually, in the near future... It is estimated that grain prices will rise by 20 percent and meat prices by 50 percent. The beneficiary will be Russia, because during the boycott, during the blockade, Russia strengthened its agricultural sector, were sold by these agroholdings to foreign entrepreneurs with Dutch techniques. The situation is that Russia has changed from an importer to an exporter of grain and meat today. This, of course, reduces our competitiveness. As a result, we should, in the end, perhaps reconsider our cooperation with those countries that can really help us. I think that the Nordic countries have, of course, already been mentioned, and all this is beautiful and good that in its second speech the Minister noted the need... and closer cooperation with the Visegrad countries, because I think that it is precisely the cooperation with the Visegrad countries that could in some way lead us to veto some of the unthinking decisions taken by the European Commission, and that would allow us to develop... maybe to compete economically and become stronger. It is Poland that is one of those countries with its strong economy and military potential, which provides stability in Central Europe and not in northern Europe. It is precisely the cooperation with Poland, which cooperates with Britain in the military field, that is our guarantee in this case. I think that, above all, we must remember that our task is not to be, let us say, some supporters of all the decisions of the European Commission, but we must support our constituents, we must support our small businessmen, we must look forward to making Latvia's economy competitive in the future and so that this green policy, which often turns into hallucinations rather than green, does not in any way undermine our airBaltic competition, because we know, however, that Turkish Airlines or Ukrainian airlines, or Belarus, which will become democratic early or late... Well, they will not be subject to all these restrictions, various taxes, emissions charges and so on. We need to be reasonable. In the end, I call for honesty. Our constituents were unable to create such chaos in energy policy, price policy. It would be fair if every political organisation, if every political party in the next election were to say fairly whether they prefer the fantasies of the European Commission... whether they believe that Latvia should be, and the Latvian government should be, sticking to the European Commission, say, bottoms, whether we will defend our voters, our entrepreneurs, support and strengthen Latvia's competitiveness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U53	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Mr Lejny. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U54	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Members, Honourable Members! I will have just a few comments about what I have already heard. First of all, historically, we still have Molotov-Ribbentrop's syndrome, although no more Ribentrop is in the west of us. But it would be good if there were still a living lesson in the west that the concessions made by Chamberlen to Hitler's demands in Munich in 1938 led to war. The sadly famous statement, the statement by Chamberlen that he was peaceable, was only valid for a year. The war against Nazi Germany had to be declared itself when Hitler invaded Poland. But Molotov is still living in Russia. For no reason Putin ordered a ban on “International Memorial”. It is clear that the sanctions introduced following the Russian invasion in Ukraine in 2014 and the arrest of Crimea were not sufficient to deter Putin from acting aggressively, which has now led the world to the threat of a new war. It is also known that surfaces in times of great tension can lead to dramatic, undesirable consequences, but sometimes they also reflect the truth, which is not always loudly spoken. The words of Rear Admiral Shenbach, a German military officer in India, that Putin only wanted respect, not only paid him a high position, but also showed us that there are people even in very responsible circles trying to understand Putin's Russia, without even having to take account of recent historical teachings. Putin's masterist – masterist! – it is to distract international attention from the main issue of our age, namely the arrival of a new superpower on the world stage. Of course, it is China, which, unlike Russia, has not only great military potential but will soon be the largest economy in the world. It is following closely Russia and Western unity, defending the right of Ukraine to decide its own destiny, because China could draw similarities with its policy towards Taiwan. However, whether Putin will be a long-term or a short-term success will determine our, that is, NATO and the European Union, clear support for Ukraine. I am not sure if everyone understands that the Ukrainians are our first shield against Putin's empire reconstruction project. It's sad. Putin could choose Germany’s way by overcoming the gloomy heritage of the past. For a long time he worked in Honeker, East Germany, and he saw the people break down the Berlin Wall by hand. He could be the President of a major democratic, strong economic power today. He could be the Russian Conrad Adenauer today. But in the future it is still possible to get up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U55	Thank you, Mr. Lewis. The floor in the debate for Member Dace Rukšāne-Šcipčinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U56	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Colleagues and colleagues! I thank the Foreign Minister for his meaningful presentation of the work he has done and planned in the country's foreign policy and European Union affairs in 2021. In preparation for this foreign policy debate, I have taken account of my ideas about foreign policy reports since the beginning of this parliamentary mandate. And it is very positive that there is progress and progress in the field of environment and climate policy. In the 2019 foreign policy debate, I called for environmental and climate issues to be included in Latvia's foreign policy priorities, and I am very pleased that now Latvia is working hard on these issues. It is not because I have pointed this out, but because these issues are issues of the future of all our societies and peoples, because, after all, as a coastal state, we will be the first to feel climate change. It is important that the issues of environmental protection and climate change not only remain priorities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, but also become priorities of our country. The inclusion of these issues in the foreign policy stops of our country is a step in the right direction. Environmental and climate change policy does not automatically mean ban policy, it is also an opportunity policy. I would like to read one lesson from the foreign policy report. I quote: “The European Green course will provide new opportunities for Latvian companies to work on innovative, exportable and climate-friendly products, create new jobs and better integrate into global supply chains, especially in the context of low emissions and electric cars development, production of innovative and sustainable products, development of renewable energy sources and development of various green technologies.” I fully agree with the subject of this report and call on all Members and Ministers to remember these opportunities that Latvia should not miss. I very much hope that we will take these issues forward in particular in the run-up to our Presidency of the Council of Europe in 2023. In the context of the Presidency, the foreign policy report states that our task will be to strengthen the organisation's political role and human rights standards in its Member States, which is very correct. I hope that until then we will also have done our homework and finally ratified the Istanbul Convention and adopted a law of marriage law or other laws and regulations that would arrange for equal protection of all families of Latvia. This is, of course, the work of the Saeima, not of the Foreign Minister, and I hope another 13. The family will do this work. It is clear that it is not possible to debate foreign policy and not to discuss security issues, especially in the context of Ukraine's situation, especially this week, when representatives of our Ministry of Defence together with the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence deliver our country's humanitarian and military assistance cargo. As many people in Latvia, I am very concerned about the situation. International security issues remain binding to us and transatlantic relations with our strategic partner in the US are still important in this context. The presence of the United States in the Baltic region is a huge element of deterrence and protection. We have always stressed the importance of our relationship with the United States, while this Saeima has adopted a ban on adoption of children to the United States, a developed country that we consider to be our biggest ally. I have said several times that the law adopted by the Saeima unfortunately does not correspond to the interests of children to grow up in a family environment, but I would also like to hear from the Foreign Minister whether such laws and symbolic decisions do not undermine our dialogue with the US. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U57	Thank you. The floor in the debate is for the Member, Janis Vacāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U58	Hello! I ask you to combine the two times of my debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U59	Your times are united. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U60	Thank you. Very respectful Head of the sitting! High Minister for Foreign Affairs! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, As mentioned in the report discussed today by the Foreign Minister, Latvia has taken over the Lithuanian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly since the beginning of this year, just as it has taken over the leadership of the Baltic Council of Ministers. As the Head of the Latvian delegation at the Baltic Assembly, based on my experience, I can clearly say that it is very important that cooperation between the Baltic States in both these forms of cooperation – at parliamentary and governmental level – is as coherent as possible and complementary, but without unnecessary duplication of activities and topics. Therefore, the Baltic Council as a joint meeting of the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers is also convened annually as part of the Baltic Assembly session in order to reflect the progress made last year and to agree on the work and the planned priorities for the following year. This, by number 27, was also the case in the Baltic Council for the coordination of the priorities and work to be carried out on both these forms of cooperation, inter-parliamentary and intergovernmental, last November, in Vilnius. At the same time, we understand that both the current issues, such as overcoming the consequences of the Covid-19 crisis and recovering from these consequences, and those which concern the security of the region in the broadest sense, are and will be the hot issues of both forms of cooperation, taking into account developments in the situation. In turn, with security issues, we, the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly, and our Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues understand not only the security of our borders, not only cyber security, not only the prevention or mitigation of hybrid threats of various forms, but also the issues of stable energy supply and energy security, which have become more urgent recently. One of the aims of this speech is to present to you, colleagues, the main points of the work programme of the Baltic Assembly for 2022 under the Latvian Presidency. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has already been informed of the majority of these cases in the above mentioned 27. In the Baltic Council. We have chosen three words about the motto of the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly – “partnership, prosperity, protection”. In English, which is the official working language of the Baltic Assembly, these three words form a symbolic series of PPPs – Partnership, Property, Protection. They emphasise cooperation based on close and mutual trust, seeing it as an additional tool to promote prosperity and security. A set of these three words also means a commitment to strengthening the dialogue, mutual trust and trust of the Baltic States. It also means a desire to do everything possible to ensure an increasing level of welfare and economic development in the Baltic region as a whole, while realising that, in the case of open economies such as those of the Baltic States, this cannot be achieved without effective interaction with other partner countries. That is why the priorities of our Presidency of the Baltic Assembly are rooted in a common vision, interests and goals of the world, which have been identified in the work of the Baltic Assembly in previous years, both at the meetings of its committees, at the meetings of the Consultative Council of the Baltic Assembly, at the session of the Baltic Assembly, and in regular contacts with other inter-parliamentary organisations (such as the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference, the Nordic Council, the Benelux Parliament, the Georgian Parliament or the Parliamentary Assembly of Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Moldova), as well as in meetings with representatives of the Visegrad Group and other national parliaments. At the Baltic Assembly in 2022, we planned to focus on three priority thematic groups, which were already mentioned by the Speaker of the Saeima in his speech today. May I repeat these areas: firstly, the rapid recovery from the Covid-19 crisis and the promotion of sustainable growth in the Baltic States; secondly, the socially protected people living in a safe and sustainable region in the Baltic region; thirdly, interconnected and innovative Baltic States. Years past: 2020 and 2021. – Covid-19 has been a difficult time for the Baltic States in the event of a very widespread crisis, and it is now clear that in 2022 we have to take account of this additional burden on both national economies and the various areas of social life. Unfortunately, as a result of the crisis in previous years, a number of important issues affecting national cooperation have not been given sufficient attention, as all countries have been in a continuous fight against the effects of the virus. Therefore, within the framework of the Latvian Presidency, it is necessary to work at the Baltic Assembly both on topics aimed at ensuring economic and social stability in the Baltic States, as well as on the consequences of the crisis as quickly as possible, and to update cooperation in areas where work is delayed. This should include, for example, delays in cooperation on the use of renewable energy sources as an element of energy security, or the question of why the platform for joint procurement of vaccines has not been and still is not being used successfully approved and previously economically. At the same time, it should be noted that, despite the difficult situation for Europe as a whole, there are areas where mutually beneficial transnational cooperation has been marked by visible results. And here I would like to mention two of those initiated by the Baltic Assembly... successful initiatives. One of them is the successful operation of the Baltic Culture Fund by launching another project competition... the call for applications by 22 February of this year. The second outstanding initiative is the mutual agreement between the three Baltic States and the three Benelux countries on the automatic recognition of higher education qualifications. It was signed by ministers in charge of higher education in all six countries on 21 September last year and has now reached the ratification stage. In the Saeima, we transferred this Treaty to the Foreign Affairs Commission last week and we hope to get it back to the next readings quickly enough. In this year, 2022, we planned to address a number of equally important issues at the Baltic Assembly in order to strengthen and make more effective cooperation between the Baltic States, their economies and people. Examples of such cooperation areas are climate and energy solutions, scientific and technological development and the promotion of innovation, the reduction of social inequalities, the fight against organised crime, and regional development. The first event planned by the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly – the meeting of the Committee on Security and Defence of the Baltic Assembly – was held last week in Riga, with the participation of representatives of all three parliaments of the Baltic States, representatives of ministries and independent experts from relevant fields. The meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Energy and Innovation of the Baltic Assembly is scheduled for next week in Tallinn. The issues to be addressed will include joint actions by the Baltic States to promote faster economic development, digitalisation and the so-called green transition of the region, as well as the development of joint energy infrastructure projects in the Baltic States. The long-term sustainable development of the economy can be ensured by promoting the increasingly intensive use of the various opportunities offered to us. Such opportunities include the inclusion of all three Baltic States and possible cooperation between them in major European science, technology and innovation formations, such as the European Nuclear Research Organisation (CERN) and the European Space Agency. It is also important to use the experience of such cooperation in the partner countries of the Baltic Assembly. With this aim in 2022, a joint conference between the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers is planned. Preparation for this conference has already started; a joint visit of representatives of the Baltic Assembly from all three Baltic States to CERN in February is scheduled. I would like to emphasise that the work programme of the Baltic Assembly this year focuses on open dialogue between the Baltic States in order to help tackle the various security, economic and social challenges together and to promote a faster economic and social recovery in the region. In 2022, attention is also to be paid to the most severely affected areas, for example, by seeking ways to help socio-economicly disadvantaged groups in the Baltic States. The meeting of the Committee on Health, Welfare and Family Affairs of the Baltic Assembly will be dedicated to this in Vilnius in March. In addition, in the Baltic Assembly, we intend to seek common solutions for the sectors most affected, as well as to promote targeted investment in technology and innovation to ensure not only that the Baltic States recover as quickly as possible from the critical situation caused by the communal pandemic, but also to use this situation to strengthen the international competitiveness of our countries and their economies. In that joint view of the Bureau of the Baltic Assembly and the Consultative Council of the Baltic Assembly, we have come to the conclusion that investment in technology and innovation in the widest range of areas of life is an important driver for rapid socio-economic development in the Baltic States. It is important to note that the Baltic Assembly will also pay serious attention to joint efforts to make the Baltic countries climate neutral by 2050. Several speakers, including the Prime Minister, have already mentioned the importance of this area and its complex in their speeches today. Issues such as security of supply, sustainability and connectivity will become even more important in this year and beyond. For this reason, the aim of the Baltic Assembly is to seek, together with the governments of the Baltic States, the best possible strategy for introducing a European green course in the Baltic region. This so-called green transition is difficult to imagine without the use of flexible business models based on sustainable innovation in creative investments, energy efficiency and a circular economy geared towards waste-free management. It is true that the global crisis has also disrupted or hindered many important long-term relationships, including between close partners. For this reason, one of the objectives of the Baltic Assembly in 2022 is to renew and strengthen cooperation with its international partners and close allies. It is planned to further develop regional networks with the Nordic countries, the Benelux and Visegrad countries. The Baltic Assembly is an excellent format for dialogue with parliamentarians around the world, given that many of today's problems need to be addressed in a broader and close cooperation. In 2022, the Baltic Assembly will continue to actively exchange information and share best practices with Nordic and Benelux countries on crisis management and other issues of mutual interest. On 10 December last year, during the Benelux Parliamentary Session, I was assigned as Vice-President of the Baltic Assembly to sign a cooperation agreement between the Benelux Parliament and the Baltic Assembly 2022-2023. The European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions. There, six priority areas were identified (they are on the website of the Baltic Assembly and I will not list them at the moment, saving time). Cooperation agreements between the Baltic Assembly and the Nordic Council have also been renewed for signature. Their signature is scheduled for the first half of this year. In particular, I would like to point out that cooperation in the so-called NB8 format is particularly important for all three Baltic countries, but especially for Latvia as a geographical central state on this coast of the Baltic Sea. At the same time, the Baltic Assembly also under the Latvian Presidency is determined to continue to support the Eastern Partnership countries and fulfil the role of bridge between them and the Nordic countries, the Benelux countries and other countries of the European Union. The Baltic Assembly will continue to support the efforts of the Eastern Partnership countries to move closer to the European Union. The Bureau of the Baltic Assembly shall be responsible for cooperation with international partners, in which each country is represented by the Head of Delegation and his/her Deputy. They are from Latvia and I am a member of the Saeima Secretary, Inese Voika. December of last year, with the participation of the annual session of the Guam Parliamentary Assembly – 13. – at the session, on behalf of the Bureau of the Baltic Assembly, I indicated that in this field of external cooperation, the following priorities of the Bureau of the Baltic Assembly: to renew and strengthen cooperation with international partners and close allies of the Baltic Assembly, strong support for the Eastern Partnership countries and exchange of experience, good practice and information with partner organisations in different countries. To the end...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U61	Mr. Wuzan... conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U62	In conclusion, I would like to say thank you very much to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as to those officials and staff of other ministries who have provided informational support for the work of the Baltic Assembly. I also thank the Speaker of the Saeima, Mrs Mūrniece, and the entire Saeima Presidium, as well as the Saeima Interparliamentary Relations Office, for their participation in the work of the Baltic Assembly and for their organisational support. I also thank the Speaker of the Saeima for his appreciation of the work of the Baltic Assembly today. Let us continue working together. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry to spend time.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U63	Thank you. Name to Member Krista Bauman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U64	Dear President, Mr. Foreign Minister! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Diplomats! Everyone who looks at us and listens to us! Welcome to Strasbourg, where I work this week at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I have very little time in the middle of the session, so this time I will talk about only one subject: the Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, also known as the Istanbul Convention, which Latvia has already signed in 2016, but has not yet ratified. The Convention was drawn up by the Council of Europe, the most important organisation of human rights in the world, and last year the Convention has been in place for 10 years since it was opened for signature. It has been ratified by 35 countries and also by the European Union. At present, the ratification process has started in Great Britain, Ukraine and also Moldova has announced publicly that it is going to ratify this Convention. This is the third time I take part in the assembly, and every time here in Strasbourg, at various levels and formats, the importance of the Istanbul Convention, its impact on public policies and on women's lives and health is highlighted. There is an active exchange of experience among Member States on the implementation practices of the Convention at thematic conferences, in cooperation with other international – intergovernmental – organisations and non-governmental organisations. The June session of the Parliamentary Assembly devoted a whole day to the discussion of the Convention. It was a high priority on the agenda of the former Assembly President, and the new Assembly President has also promised to continue. The current head of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, a representative of the Italian Government, called on all Member States which have not yet done so to ratify the Convention here in Strasbourg a few days ago. I am asked here in the Assembly by politicians from other Member States from different parties across the political spectrum in formal and informal negotiations, and they are surprised, to put it mildly, that Latvia has not yet ratified the Convention. They ask me why, and I do not have to say, because I am ashamed to repeat the arguments that have often been heard, such as the fear of a gentleman or the like, because then I should also explain to my European colleagues, who are that terrible gender, and I really cannot. Foreign ambassadors working in Latvia often ask me this question. I know that it is also required by officials from other countries at meetings with our Heads of State. As several speakers have already mentioned, including the head of our delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Latvia will be the Presidency of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers for the next six months and will be responsible for managing the content of the Council of Europe. It will be a great opportunity for our country to demonstrate its ability to conduct an international human rights dialogue and to convince 46 European countries that the accession of Latvia to the UN Security Council is not a coincidence. Preparatory work for the Presidency of the Council of Europe has already begun. But our ministers and diplomats, and Inese Lībiņš-Egner, who has just been elected Head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights here in the Council of Europe, will have to come to the ground with shame if we still fear the gentler or have not ratified the Istanbul Convention for any other reason. Ladies and gentlemen, the way we look and the impression we have on our allies is important, but that is not, of course, the main reason why it is high time that Latvia ratified the Istanbul Convention. The main reason is that violence against women and domestic violence in our country is a major problem that politicians so far did not want to see or solve. This must be changed, and we have an excellent opportunity to do so during this parliamentary term, by ratifying this important international human rights document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U65	Thank you to Mrs. Bauman. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U66	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima, Head of the sitting! Honourable Members and Ministers! Excellency! Foreign policy often acquires forms that are concrete, up to anecdotic. Recently we went to Belarus border with fellow Members from the Foreign Affairs Commission and the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission, and there our Latvian border guards said that although there is practically no cooperation with colleagues from foreign countries in recent months, the Belarusians were congratulated in the New Year. And they wrote in e-mail: “Do not teach us to live, and everything will be normal.” In a subjective mood, it is quite difficult to imagine what would have happened if the Latvian Foreign Minister, together with the Mayor of Riga, had not removed the flag of Belarus during the World Hockey Championship. By the way, ours pushed their championship out of Belarus using political levers. It is unlikely that Latvia's relations with Belarus would have been bright, but they could not have become so toxic. And it's more paradoxical, because early in 2020, Prime Minister Kariņš went to Minsk and presented to President Lukashenko of Belarus a Latvian hockey shirt with the number 1 and the surname of Batjka... Aleksandrs Grigorjevičs even went to Latvia on his second official visit... After Austria, but unfortunately this great diplomatic event was disrupted by the coronavirus. And then, perhaps, a new, bright chapter would appear in the history of our traditionally friendly relationship. Probably at that time, two years ago, Lukashenko was not the final dictator and the Foreign Ministers Rinkēvičs and Macedonia did not exchange text messages. Some like Lukashenko, others do not. Some are more than critical of our own politicians. For a long time there has been a stable formula “Lewita – Kariņš Regime” in Latvian social networks. Be honest, colleagues – you don't like yourself if you're told that you don't do that... whether there are unpleasant pages in the history of your people. About 15 years ago, when Latvia just joined NATO and the EU, in informal conversation with the head of the diplomatic representation of a small, wealthy Western European country, I heard the following phrase: “Latvia's biggest problem is the events in the Second World War.” Very recently, it has received clear approval. The Belgian city of Zedelgem will no longer be Brivibaplein. Of course, local Members are not so witty to take Latvia's bee hive at night and throw it into the nearby lake. A monument to the Legionaires will have to take for funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia. By the way, I didn't hear today from Mr Rinkēvičs's explanation that he was late for this trick from the country where NATO and the EU headquarters are located, where thousands of Latvian diplomats, officials, politicians and military people live and work and where they must be aware of Latvia's complicated story. But the history of our country is of little interest to the world, and you are talking about all kinds of chercile and Chamberlenes today, and do not remember what Ulmanis and Munter did. But the bad Russia gave more than 80 extra square meters to Latvia in the house of Arbata, which was exchanged for the sanatorium “Jantarnij Bereg” in Jurmala. As the members of the Foreign Affairs Commission learned yesterday in the sitting, the new real estate exchange law provides for a temporary increase in Latvia's properties. Taking into account that one square meter of accommodation in this district costs at least 10 thousand euros and it is about the 1825 self-crust house, which was restored to Russian funds, Latvia received a gift worth at least one million euros from the famous Radishčev family manor. However, as the Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Atis Lots told us yesterday at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission, Latvia does not want to use this building in the very heart of Moscow, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will sell it, although it would be possible to open, for example, the Latvian cultural centre, the exhibition and the sale of our Republic's goods or simply organise an auction for Latvian companies that want to obtain an office in one of the largest and richest cities in the world. The ministry apparently lacks ingenuity for good works. By the way, it will be necessary to check how much this building will be sold, who will buy it and whether the transaction amount will meet market criteria. I'm not talking about war. This issue is decided now, but not here and we will not decide it. Therefore, colleagues, sometimes we should not miss an opportunity to simply listen to such serious things. As regards an increase of 40 per cent in the Ministry of Defence's budget, I understand Mr Pabrik, who wants to represent himself in the paranoid atmosphere as a commander of a bypass fortress. Yes, there is no such thing as “too much money”, but above all there is a lack of people in the Latvian army, which was recently recognised by NBS Commander General Leonīds Kalniņš. But for an additional EUR 300 million in military spending... I would say that the Minister of Defence Pabrik is primarily accountable for the questionable purchases of respiratory inspireds and other famous commodus cases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U67	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Valeria Ageshin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U68	Dear colleagues, I believe that the situations of conflict between countries can be effectively overcome by diplomatic means. Diplomatic solutions are needed, deescalation path. There's no other way. Let diplomats speak and cannons remain silent. I think that people in Latvia currently lack a sense of peace, as a result of which important security vulnerability may develop. There must be no panic in society. The results of various surveys indicate that a number of domestic problems are considered more important than external threats. In the opinion of Latvian society, I see the socio-economic issues over foreign policy and state security. I think that there is consensus in our society that economic and personal security issues are, however, more important than external threats to national security. At the same time, I believe that it is unacceptable for foreign policy to become a hostage of internal politics and to serve the narrow interests of individual politicians. We have diplomatic relations with Russia, so I am in favour of a smart relationship with the Russian Federation. They must be based on consistent pragmatism, building on our practical experience in diplomacy. Disputes with a neighbouring country, such as the interpretation of significant historical events, are inevitable in the near future. In this situation, I think that the best solution is to accept these differences, to put them aside temporarily and not to try to impose their truth, waiting, of course, for a similar attitude on the part of the neighbouring country as well. It is important that these differences do not hinder economic, cultural, criminal and other cooperation. There is no doubt – as a result of the influx of refugees in European countries, including Latvia, people's concerns about potential terrorist threats have increased considerably. Of course, terrorists want to keep Europe under stress, they no longer have to try to bomb their citizens to get nervous, they do enough to threaten. This is the result of the terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels. In fact, what we did not expect in the past is now happening: often, in some sections of society, each refugee is seen as a potential terrorist. There are also other side effects. The populist parties and politicians are very much trying to gain the sympathy of society with uncovered xenophobia. I think we need to focus on issues that unite society rather than divide it, and talk more about the advantages of our country. For example, one of the advantages of Latvia is the centuries-long traditions of coexistence and cooperation between different ethnic, linguistic and religious groups. There was never an interethnic conflict in our country. I regard the basic objectives of foreign policy as ensuring peace, international security and cooperation. In my view, the task of foreign policy is to promote investment, lobbying of national businesses, increasing exports, introducing innovations, and expanding transit. There are concrete examples of how diplomacy can effectively overcome a situation of conflict between countries. When World War III threatened the world in the 1970 ’ s, in 1975, all parties in Helsinki had the political will to sit down at a single negotiating table and sign an agreement on security and cooperation. There may be a need for a fundamental international conference on foreign and security issues, as in Helsinki in 1975. In the 1990s and early 2000s, Latvia’s goal was to join the European Union and NATO. These goals have been achieved, so I believe that a new idea for Latvia is needed. If we analyse and value, for example, the terrorist threat, I would like to remind you that Latvia is one of the safest countries in the world in the most secure group of countries. I think that we should use this fact more actively and position our country as the safest place in Europe. Perhaps anti-terrorism security can become Latvia's new idea. If we were to develop this message wisely, it would probably become more attractive for investors, such as those from Western Europe. I invite you to think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U69	Thank you. Name to Member Long Schuplinsk. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U70	Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! High Minister for Foreign Affairs! My message will in principle have two parts. First: I certainly join those who have already said a great deal of thanks to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry and the diplomatic corps at this point. And the other: I'll also make a part of my wishes. Not for nothing this is a new beginning not only for many of the events already mentioned, including the Latvian Presidency, but also a new beginning for the planning stages. The first one. I have to say right away, I have no experience as other Members of the Saeima – to take part in this debate on foreign affairs – and my experience is mainly related to work at the Ministry. I can say very safely that working as a minister for education and science, cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was the strongest and very many things we were able not only to get to the end, but, I must say, to get a completely new perspective for a common European area of education and research. At this point, I would point out probably only two very important things, and it is both signing a contract with CERN, and thus the European Nuclear Research Centre, and also signing a contract with the European Space Agency, which increases the concrete prospects and opportunities for both Latvian entrepreneurs and many researchers, as well as the education sector. And the second question is directly related to student exports, because it is precisely the cooperation of Latvian universities with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all possible procedures that allow to take care and think about Latvia as one of those countries that, through the management of higher education, think strongly about Latvia's most specific and useful scope of the programme... may become one of the countries offering very good and excellent education in many future professions. The proof of this is definitely Riga Stradiņš University, which, among other things, is one of the universities that has worked very successfully with hybrid methods without giving up... and in no way oppose traditional but show that it is ready and open to cooperation and new opportunities. In any case, it is really late for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic corps, because every cooperation with the Embassy, including the resolution of Belarusian scientists and students, was very useful, practical and, most importantly, very clear within time limits. And it seems to me that it is very often lacking in the joint actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, and also in the Latvian administration it is one of the problems. The second block is therefore the elections. And I will refer to the report of the Foreign Minister himself. At the very beginning, he pointed out, in principle, to three very important things that perhaps did not mark a specific policy... in the case of one or the other issue, but I think there is a common philosophy that is very relevant to Latvia's policy, namely: internal policy cannot be separated from foreign policy; democratic principles are those that will enable the country to exist, will allow independence to be preserved and really belong to this tradition of Western Europe; and lastly, the country and its independence cannot be destroyed if we ourselves are strong. I would like to – precisely because the Foreign Minister has been in this item since 2011 and in reality both his education and the fact that this professionalism has allowed the industry to pay attention not only, to say, selectively, but already in a rather large period of time – that this practice is moving to a common Latvian governance system... and the other – that the experience and competence of the Foreign Minister has also allowed decisions to be made at absolutely critical times. And I will say right away that, while I was also in the Cabinet of Ministers, I lacked exactly a comparative vision, as, for example, other countries are doing in the society's situation. I would like this cooperation, which is indeed a very good one in dealing with topical issues, to be just as relevant in this crisis, so that the views of expert level and data-based views would also appear very precisely there, showing other scenarios and other models of how Latvia can also deal with the comma crisis. Why it really seems very important to me to stress that internal policy is going along with foreign policy – precisely because the basic principle of democracy is definitely this mutual trust, not the sowing of fear, ignorance and absolute instability in society. And precisely because Mr Rinkēvičs has this great experience, it seems to me that this international dimension would be very important for many decisions and also very correct decisions, because the protection of the border is not so much linked to the eternal search for an external enemy, the protection of the border is not so much linked to the increase in the funding for defence, but the protection of the border is linked to the cohesion of society. What has happened over these two years has, to be honest, destroyed a large number of human values and, to my mind, has also seriously undermined people's confidence in national independence, freedom and the fact that democratic values have a certain value and price. That's why thinking about this 13. For the rest of the Saeima, I would very much like to say that when thinking about security issues, really more emphasis is placed on Latvian society, how our own people feel in Latvia, and how this security is created in both economic and socially beneficial factors, I would say, most often in the eastern border, because it is where this state's support position is lacking the most. In my view, the experience of dealing with very many foreign policy issues and, diplomatically, a range of very high-quality solutions to both negotiations and problems should also be devoted to strengthening internal policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U71	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U72	Dear President, Sir, Excellency! Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank a number of countries. I would like to thank Canada, Spain, Poland, Italy, Slovenia, Albania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Montenegro, Iceland, as well as the United Kingdom, Germany and, of course, our allies, the United States, for not only in their words, but also in their actions, for demonstrating the importance of strengthening our alliance, that their governments, their peoples, their people, when sending to our region, the Baltic States, including Latvia, their military, people who care for the security of our country. Thank you very much. Here I share the words of my fellow Members who also show - as a fellow Member has already said on behalf of our group - that we will also be seriously involved in the debate and will support our defence capabilities to be strengthened, including a very serious assessment of the increase in our defence budget, because no one else will first protect us except ourselves. But now, colleagues, at national level. In order to fulfil this commitment, which we have just said (at least most of us, both the coalition and some of the opposition), we need to understand that we are taking the funding from our national budget and that this funding is paid primarily by economic operators, including exporting entrepreneurs, this funding is paid by households, including our small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as by natural persons, who are now very much to help us. I therefore regret to read today that Latvia's largest business organisation, whose members pay more than half of our budget, demands our Prime Minister to apologize for the statements made during this time of crisis, which is devoted to our taxpayers... that at this time of crisis, we are not doing our utmost to promote the capacity of our exporters, our production, our manufacturing companies, the capacity of our employers, including the ability to export not only on the European market but also outside the European Union, thereby also strengthening our overall economic growth, the European Union. We have a lot of work to do, and we have to go much more seriously because we remember that there is a saying: “Where poverty in the door, there is love in the window.” I would not very much like to extend this term to love for our country, patriotism for our country, because only patriots can exist and protect their country. Therefore, colleagues, economic growth and work on economic growth are over us now, regardless of what is happening geopolitically, regardless of what we will still have to invest in, including financial capacity and opportunities for strengthening our defence budget, because if we want peace, we need to prepare for war. If we want others to exist for us, we need to stand first in ourselves. I think that these countries, which I called them, and all the other countries that have so far been on missions here and helped us, can also count on our ability to provide maximum support if that is necessary for any of these countries. Therefore, colleagues, we must be very, very focused so that our society is able to pay energy bills, communal bills so that people do not have a stomach because they have not enough financial resources for bread or... food so that our young families can dress up their children so that we can take care of our seniors. It is very, very important that we love this country. Then we're always all in hand, we're going to stand by and nobody, nobody can threaten us. However, I must also say a few words about the report itself. With this report by the Foreign Minister, the annual report presented to the Saeima contains many things that I can agree with, but there are also things that I would like to point out precisely to our Foreign Minister, Mr Rinkēvičs. If we mention some local governments or local governments of Latvia in this report, then we are right against all local governments, we do not raise only some local governments, whose positions or management are those of your parties, namely representatives of the New Unity. If we talk about entrepreneurs, exportable entrepreneurs, we don't raise just a few, yes, respected companies... but not just those companies whose shareholders are on the New Unity list. We are highlighting companies that are amongst other things the most exportable companies. We highlight those companies that have also received awards recognised in Latvia that have been able to shift their markets from closed markets to new markets that export to more than 40 countries that employ hundreds of people who are looking for opportunities that remain here in this country, have not gone to Lithuania or to Estonia or to other countries, have not moved their own production facilities, which are patriots of that country and which pay taxes. Let us not forget, after all, that it is the exporting entrepreneurs who bring money into our economies, money in our economies, they must be very, very much supported, we must never turn their back on them, we must give them a hand and give them opportunities at a difficult time and help. In the foreign sector too, we must help as much as our foreign protocol allows, of course, to the maximum extent possible. Therefore, colleagues, let us remember this saying: “Where poverty is in the door, there is love out of the window.” Let us do our utmost to make our country prosperous. Let us do our utmost to be energy independent, to have energy security, economic security, social security, and I am sure that then we will no longer have any problems with our military security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U73	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U74	Dear Members of the Saeima! The West has lost the pink glasses with which it looked at Russia. Latvia devotes sufficient resources to its protection; our borders are no longer walkable. We have our military allies together. Externally, Latvia is safer than ever. The situation is clearer than ever. Russia has its own puppet countries on one side and the West on the other. There is a new Cold War, where Eastern countries use various weapons against us. We must not allow the Kremlin to expand its tentacles in Europe. These sightings must be removed before they stick to European countries. Ukraine does not want to be subject to Russia, so the democratic countries of Europe must support Ukraine's efforts to maintain its independence. Currently, there is a direct hybrid attack on Latvia, the security of our borders is being tested. We do not need to raise migrants who are deliberately directed across the borders of Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. It should not be deceived that these people have been forced to pay many thousands of euros to smugglers to come to Belarus, from which they travel further to the border area between the European Union and Belarus. These people are consciously involved in a crime, thus becoming co-responsible in a crime. They have no place in Europe. Our borders must continue to be strong. At present, we are protecting not only the external borders of Latvia, but the external borders of Europe as a whole. We are also being attacked by other forms of attack. Informational attack, trying to discredit Latvia and state institutions... strive to test the resilience of society. Unfortunately, in this fight we are losing, society is becoming more and more divided. There are various manifestations of this attack. I am sad that alongside the Kremlin's agents in Latvia, there are enough useful helpers in non-governmental organizations and media environment, who, together with Russian and Belarusian media, have rushed to criticise Latvia, its armed forces and border guards. We can see that confrontation continues to grow. If there are those who have spyed for Russia among the Members of the Saeima, then it is clear that the agents of the Kremlin's influence are certainly also found among Russian citizens who live in Latvia on a permanent basis through temporary residence permits. In cooperation with partner services, Latvia needs to work to identify these persons and cancel their residence permits. Dear Members of the Saeima! Several agreements between Latvia and Russia were concluded at a time when foreign troops were still present on the territory of Latvia. It's just... was also forced to conclude an agreement to preserve the famous monuments of occupation. The issue is how long we will retain the famous monuments of the occupation. If Poles and Ukrainians are able to dismantle these objects, then Latvia must also be able to do so. Members of other parties with foam on their lips this week call for the restoration of historical justice by moving the bill worth EUR 40 million. If the majority of the Saeima were really concerned about restoring historical justice, our people who have suffered the crimes of the Communist regime would no longer have to look at the famous monuments of occupation. I wish that this year and, of course, all of the future Latvia could not only be able to further strengthen its external security, but also that we take decisive steps to bring society together, because this is the most important thing in this hybrid war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U75	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, While working for a long time in the European Commission for European Affairs, naturally, it is an honour to read very interesting materials, which are known as the "national position". The national position is, in principle, a document which reflects national interests in different areas. There is one section that I like most: the specific opinions of individual countries on the issues to be addressed. It must be stated openly, they are very often different from the solutions proposed, and other ideas and views are very often present. I understand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have the capacity to assess all its positions; it is enough to harmonise and register. But there are two things. The first thing is that from all the many positions one is particularly important and perhaps referred to as a priority position. If such a priority position exists, then it is the task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to present it with diplomatic methods. There are quite a number of such examples. Well, let's say, let's take the current situation that resulted from the rise in energy prices. Today, almost nothing is done in the European Commission to support entrepreneurship in terms of energy costs, as the problem can lead to the destruction of a large part of the business. Not for the benefit of competitors in other countries where some aid is granted, but in general they could be undertakings... they could be written off from the Register of Enterprises and from the business card. Today, therefore, in order to address these measures, there is mandatory coordination with the European Commission, even better regulation. This is a priority problem that should be addressed yesterday and not today. This is also the case here for the debate on the gas market. Here again, the situation is that we were not those who prevented or were able to prevent the gas market from being distorted in Europe. Here, these principles are very different from, say, building an oil market. These principles have led today to the fact that it was gas prices that remained not only unstable but absolutely unpredictable, and it is also lowering all energy, European energy, to the bottom. I remember: in the foreign policy debate last year, I asked the honourable Minister what is the national interest in the construction of the Nord Stream pipeline? Does it affect Latvia's interests? Is this affecting European interests? Is it an attempt to get Germany in? It's an attempt to get Russia in? How's that? Because it is the gas pipeline that is unfortunately much less advantageous for gas suppliers than, for example, the supply of liquefied gas, because there is much more flexibility there. There is not as much danger to Europe's gas security or energy security as to threats, threats to Russian gas suppliers. This is perhaps a purely rhetorical issue, but unfortunately there is also a myth here, and there is nothing to do with common sense. The second thing I wanted to talk about is the atmosphere caused by the pandemic. The pandemic not only created a crisis in a number of areas related to medical matters, health care, the economy, finances... By the way, in the area of what is called 'financial', the consequences of the crisis are not yet visible and not yet enumerable, as this crisis is more severe and will be more severe than even the economic crisis. But the most difficult thing is that a pandemic increased fear and aggression in all social groups and at all levels, including politicians. This has also been very evident in today's debate on the threats that come from all sides. Yes, the threat has always been, it will always be. But in order to reject these threats, other methods, such as debate, dialogue, negotiation, no negotiation. This is also reflected in the experience of literally the last weeks when, despite these real or unreal, utopian... or dictatorship-like ultimates or proposals that came from Russia... However, it encouraged, increased and accelerated the opportunity to sit down at the table to discuss these problems. Not even find a solution, because this solution stands behind the mountains, but to discuss its demands from all sides, the rules on compromise opportunities and so on, because it is better to talk at a diplomatic table than a good war. Talking about security matters, too... You see, you can be afraid that, right now, there's going to be an attack, there's going to be a crossing of borders, there's going to be a war, there's going to be a conflict, there's going to be a war, there's going to be a conflict, or else... there will be sanctions, there will be something else, but these are just words. In any case, there should be a description and scenario of the situation, how it could look and how it should be in the mechanism of action. Only when all the risks have been assessed, when all the mechanisms of action have been analysed, can it be said that we have taken comprehensive measures to eliminate the threat, the threat and the conflict. I do not understand, to be honest, how military security can be measured in monetary units. I still understand - military capabilities, armaments, number of soldiers, preparation of the armies and so on, and so on. This is related to expenditure on money, but it is not related to the proportion of the funds in the gross product. It's rhetoric again, because there's no real calculation here for the needs that could be. The last one. Fear and aggression are increasing today in all countries of the world. All of it! And their manifestations are much more dramatic than the direct conflicts that might appear. That is why I agree with what has already been said several times today, and I think that this is the fundamental theme of our internal security, external security – it is the cohesion of society. It can be made in words and promises; it can only be made in a society that is building up and building up trust. Trust not in the Saeima, not in the government, but in the action of the Saeima and the government, which is much more important, because the right action also leads to the right reference. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U77	Thank you. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U78	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I had not planned to speak, but since this is no longer a foreign policy debate, but an advertising of the Istanbul Convention and an attempt to shame Members representing conservative values, so I cannot remain silent. Is the Istanbul Convention really the only way we miss complete happiness? Do we allow violence? When have we allowed violence against women? We have met, in principle, all the requirements and recommendations contained in the Istanbul Convention. What directly prevents us from combating violence, and how will the convention solve this directly? We need to be ashamed of what? The fact that we still believe that a child's mother is a woman and father is a man, and nothing else? Should we be ashamed that we do not have older numbers one and older numbers two? That we have two genders – a woman and a man? That we have Christmas? Perhaps we should be more ashamed of having a minimum pension of 149 euro 60 cents. Are you talking to someone about this in the corridors of Strasbourg and Brussels? And is there a question for no one – it's a week or yet a month? Nobody's asking? Are you telling me how much benefit for people with disabilities and explaining to them, your colleagues, there in Brussels, how exactly a person with such a benefit is able to survive? Teach them how to do so? Don't you feel ashamed about that? Please, also today, inform your European colleagues that we have 62 000 people released from work, released from their will, and denied them the means of living to feed their family. This is our shameful stain, not the Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U79	I closed the debate. The debate has already been closed. Mr. Mozhville, I'm sorry. The debate was closed. Dear colleagues, Let's give the floor to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U80	Thank you, honourable President. Thank you to all Members for really very meaningful and interesting speeches. For those who have expressed criticism, it has indeed been reasonable and well-targeted. A very brief answer to certain questions or things that I would like to comment on. First of all, I would like to say that I fully join Mrs Voika in saying that development cooperation policy... This Saeima, too, has made a great contribution to it, and we would very much like to continue to work with our colleagues in the Saeima, with colleagues in other ministries, in order to promote, as effectively as possible, the use of the funds allocated so that the priorities that have been set are met. I would also like to say a great deal of thanks to our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and indeed to express my support for both what Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere said about all these issues that are relevant in this format, and also to say that we are following Mrs Baumane's work very closely, and full support for our colleagues and a full promise of cooperation in the future. Mr Budrik touched the Chinese Olympics and the diplomatic boycott. I have also received your letter. To answer this, I just want to emphasise that no Latvian state official will come from Riga. There are various reasons for this, including epidemiologically, which is also agreed at the level of the government and the President of Latvia, but what I would like to say in particular is that we will continue to maintain human rights issues - and this is what I have said in my speech and also in the report. With Mr Kirštein, we have usually had discussions with the European Affairs Commission on climate policy. I just want to remind both Mr Kirštein and Mr Zarins and others about the climate, about energy... Of course, this is a foreign policy debate, but of course it concerns everything, but these are broader issues to talk about. Mrs Ruksane-Schipčinskas also mentioned... and asked about the child adoption law, which was recently adopted, and relations with the United States. Yes, this issue has been addressed by the US, but I would like to say that we have made it clear what is also the position of the Saeima, that at a time when the necessary international treaties and conventions will be ratified by the US, there will be no problem either. I think that US diplomats also understand this, so I do not see any special irritants here in the context of bilateral relations. Another question is the debate that has already been on the correctness of this step, here in the Saeima, and I would not really comment on it, that is what the Saeima is. Thank you very much to Mr Vucana for his very good cooperation so far under the leadership of the Baltic Assembly, and all the issues that have been mentioned are on our agenda as well, and we look forward to closer cooperation. The Istanbul Convention. I would say this: I personally support the ratification of this convention. I believe that this would be the right step. It's a question of what... Of course, at a time when this document comes to the Saeima, that will be, I allow, the issue of a hot debate. You could have felt it today. What I would call for at the time when this ratification debate (either in this Saeima or next – it is another issue) will take place – to do so in the most respectful way possible and really talk about the substance. I would also like to say, for my part, that I have listened with interest to Mr Kabanova's speech. However, I would like to remind you that you are a Member of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia and not a Member of Lukashenko's Parliament. I did not hear from you any words about the abduction of Ryanair, about the citizens of Latvia, who, by the way, were on board the plane, but I heard a lot of defense speeches from the regime. It is, of course, a question for you and your conscience, but what I'd like to say is that we don't have to figure out... I don't know where you've got methodological instructions for your speech, but you don't have to figure out stupid things! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not plan the budget... and neither did he foresee any funds for the relocation of the monument outside Latvia, including Zedelgem. So we're gonna be right when we talk to things. Mr Ageshin, I completely agree that diplomats should speak and cannons should remain silent. I hope that you will also listen to Moscow and also listen to Minsk. Mrs Šuplinska really thank you very much for the cooperation on CERN and the European Space Agency. The only point I would like to make is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent the Office of the Prime Minister, on a regular basis, every week, information on the various limitations of the community in other countries. The question of how much of it could be taken could not be answered. So we provided this information. Finally, the last thing I would like to say in conclusion. These are the last 13. The parliamentary foreign policy debate, in October there will be elections. This is a moment in which I would like to thank all the Members very much for all the debates and cooperation that we have had. We still have to work together for a part-year, and I would like to say that, in spite of the many differences, many different opinions, we have, however, been united on very important issues. A lot has been said here about national interests, their defence. For my part, I would like to say that national interests are formulated by all of us, it is not a foreign minister. It is a government, it is a Saeima, it is a society, it is non-governmental organisations, and we should keep this in mind. This year is, in fact, significant because there is another anniversary: not only the Latvian Saeima celebrates its 100th anniversary as an institution, as the High House, but also 20 years ago, at the NATO Prague Summit in November 2002, Latvia received an invitation to join NATO. It seems - it is a long time ago, it seems - that is far from it, but I would like to remind you of the words that, at that time, with this confirmation, Latvia, together with six other countries, is invited to join the Alliance that this decision is irreversible, said our then President, Vaira Vike-Freiberga. She said: “We want to raise our future in Latvia to the stone of political belief, not to the sand that flows with uncertainty. We do not want to remain in a grey area of political insecurity; we want to enjoy to the full the freedoms and rights that NATO has protected for so long. At this historic and solemn moment, we make a solemn commitment that we will strive to do our best not only to contribute to strengthening the Alliance, but also to do our best to build a world in which justice and freedom are open to all.” When we enter the electoral cycle, when we discuss a great deal, let us not forget the fundamental values of our country's security, foreign policy and existence, let us not forget these words of our President. Thank you for the debate, for the success of further discussions, and for further cooperation for the rest of the period for all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U81	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for taking part in the debate. Colleagues! We have therefore dealt with point 1 of the agenda. I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Juris Pūce, Mārtiņš Šteina, Aigars Bikše, Gata Zamura and Viesturs Liepkalns to declare a break at the first meeting of 27 January at 15:30 – written here, I will improve – 15.38 – in order to start examining the agenda of the second remote emergency session of 27 January this year. Please call me! We will vote for the application of the Member Pūce, Stein, Bikše, Zamara and Liepkalns – to announce a break on the agenda of the first sitting and to start after 15 minutes the second remote emergency sitting! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Thank you, colleagues. Registration of Members' presence. It's over. Timeout, 15 minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U82	Dear colleagues, The agenda of the first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 27 January 2022 is ongoing. On the agenda - examination of the draft law. Draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U83	Good evening, very honourable head of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! In its meeting on 19 January this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention has discussed the urgent draft law “Amendments to the Code on the Enforcement of Penalties of Latvia” (No. 1248/Lp13) and prepared for second reading. Five proposals were submitted to the second reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. It is envisaged to exclude the first sentence of the sixth paragraph of Article 15, as all provisions on the subject of a sentenced person will be contained together in the new Article 15.3. Amendments to the sentenced person's case as a whole are necessary as currently the Code does not provide detailed regulation of the information to be included in the personal file; this makes it significantly difficult to deal with data processing issues. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U85	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The proposal provides for the addition of a new Article 15.3 to the code, which will bring together the rules necessary to regulate the subject matter of a convicted person. It lists the documents to be kept in the case and regulates the procedure for sending the person’s case to a convicted person. The condition already existing in practice is maintained that the person to whom the detention was applied in the specific criminal proceedings... The case of the arrested person shall continue as a case of the sentenced person in the event that the person starts to be held liable for a custodial sentence. Such a condition shall ensure that all information on the storage of persons in one place is available while also ensuring that the information necessary for the execution of the custodial sentence is available. This article also includes a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers - to determine the content of the convicted questionnaire and the procedure for its presentation, as well as the procedure for conducting a person's case. In the Commission, this proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U87	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. The proposal was created in cooperation with the Legal Bureau and provides for the exclusion of point 41 of the transitional provisions provided for in the draft law, and therefore the draft law does not lay down such a deferred condition. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U88	Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal presented by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please, let's vote! For - 61, for - no, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U89	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. 4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice provides for a new transitional provision which includes an obligation for the Cabinet of Ministers to issue by 1 July 2022 the rules referred to in the third paragraph of Article 50.15 of this Code on the functioning of the Commission for the Evaluation of Detention Institutions. The Cabinet of Ministers Regulations of 30 June 2015 No. 345 ‘Regulations on the composition, operational procedures and decision criteria of the Commission for the Evaluation of the Detention Authority’, without prejudice to the Code. Such transitional provision is necessary to ensure sufficient time for the development and adoption of new rules. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U90	Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! No, 59, against and refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U91	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal provides for the replacement of the existing entry into force provision by the entry into force of an urgent law. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U93	Proposals for a second reading of the draft law have been examined. Please support the Saeima for the urgent recognised draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U94	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Disease Management Act” presented by Member Ērika Pucena, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Evija Papules, Edgars Tatars and Kaspars Girgens (No. 1298/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection to Members... However, Members have reservations. Please... No, no. Members have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption the draft law “Amendments to Covid-19 communicable Management” presented by Member Pucena, Dombrovskis, Papule, Tagars and Girgens, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 35, for - 48, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Municipal Election Commission and Electoral District Commission” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Municipal Electoral Commissions and Electoral District Commissions” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 45, for - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Law on Goodwill Compensation for Latvian Communities” submitted by the Member Ralfa Nemiro, Ieva Krapāne, Māra Možvillo, Karina Sprūde and Ramona Petraviča be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. The name of Member Ralph Nemir is for motivation. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U95	Good evening, honourable colleagues! At this late hour, however, we have to look at a very serious draft law. This draft law is in fact a continuation of discussions - extension of those discussions which are already under way on the draft law “Law on Good Will Compensation for the Jewish Community of Latvia”, which have taken place both at Saeima sittings and at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, a number of Members had put forward proposals, which were very rational proposals concerning the extension of this reimbursement, the reimbursement of good will. The submitted draft law, which has been signed by Members, – “Law on Good Will Compensation for Latvian Communities” – extends this scope. Initially, the draft law mentions the reimbursement of the Latvian community, the Polish community of Latvia and the Roma community of Latvia. By the way, when it comes to the Roma community, at the meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, a representative of the Community said that, in fact, this kind of compensation is to be debated, because quite a lot of damage has been done in the past. Moreover, in this case, we are talking not only about real estate, but actually also about movable property, about the reimbursement of the value of movable property. We are also talking about the Latvian Belarusian community, the Latvian German community, the Latvian Lithuanian community... reimbursement. And that could also be an addition to the list if Members put forward any proposals. Another important point is that the amount of funds is also to be discussed. Here we should listen to the Ministry of Finance. We could invite the representatives of the communities concerned to speak, justify the extent of their claims, but, above all, we could finally move towards a kind of historical book like at least one small page... from the whole book... re-allocation, because actually now we're... about the Jewish community we are discussing a lot of things, when we are breaking, but we are moving forward, and that is also good, but we have forgotten other communities, including the Latvian community itself, which also has quite a lot of damage in the past. Here we are not talking about the guilt of the state of Latvia. We don't point a finger, but... on the other hand, we want to define these refunds. We want to define for what purpose this reimbursement is due. Most importantly, colleagues - this draft law also takes into account the fact that the reimbursement, the control of funds, should also be transferred to one of the state institutions. This draft law provides that it is a Foundation for the Integration of Society - I think it is absolutely justified if we are talking about societies, about the different communities that are affected in this case. In fact, the use of funds could also take place in the same way. However, I repeat: in order for such discussions to also be possible for Members to put forward proposals so that we can move forward on this issue, it is necessary to refer the draft law to the Commission. I can't imagine why I wouldn't do it, because in that case, the explanation... already in the draft text, existing communities will have to explain... I call on you not to do this, however... do not reject it and conduct discussions within the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, where this draft law is already in part... actually discussed - quite broadly - in a different context, but Members from several political groups had also tabled their own proposals, which made this issue wider, quite rightly broader. So, colleagues, we still have to decide, at this late hour of the evening, a sufficiently serious issue that will also give rise to further discussions. I call on you to support the referral of the draft law to the Commission so that it can have a very large number of details. I am fully aware that the draft law is far from ideal and that discussions within the Commission are needed. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U96	Thank you. One Member has spoken for. ‘ Against’... has not applied. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Vjačeslava Dombrovskis, Evija Papule, Ērika Pucena, Kaspars Girgens and Ramonas Petravičs be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U97	Good evening, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, It is, of course, interesting: what is the motivation of the Saeima to the Bureau in this way... to continue sitting at such a late hour? Of course, if only... unless the Saeima Presidium considers and all the ruling coalition considers that the issues that are considered today are of sufficient importance... or they may be regarded as some kind of... formal? But, colleagues, about this tabled bill. I hope that today everyone - especially and above all coalition Members - has gained enough pleasure from an annual foreign debate. This, as we know, is the only debate where we can even see a number of members of the coalition. It is usually the case that, even during the whole round of the country's annual budget discussion, as we all know, most, and almost all, members of the coalition... is neither visible nor audible. But, in any case, this was a good foreign debate. I'd like to... Given the real magnitude of both this consensus and the previous foreign debate, or consensus on what is the country's geopolitical course, the main challenges and all its main issues, my wish, colleagues, are: let this Saeima, 13. The Saeima would be the last in which the foreign debate would be the most active debate in the parliamentary term! I very much hope, colleagues, that next, in the Saeima, it will be that the main and most active debate of the Saeima will be what we could call a development debate, where the main role would not be played by the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence, although they must, of course, play an important role, but by the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Education and Science, and where we... Now, not us, but the next Members of the Saeima, unlike us, would be actively debating how to achieve rapid economic development in Latvia and the increase in the welfare of the population. And, colleagues, it is not as important as the Members of this parliamentary term think about this today. Well, I see, the vote is being requested. So it's time... This could mean that there is no great interest in having an annual debate on the economy, on economic development. But this, fellow Members, is a question for the next Saeima. I hope that the next Saeima on this matter... It's gonna make this name... I mean, I mean, I'm gonna tell you a little salt... a shameful place that 13. There has never been this kind of debate in the family. I call on you to support the referral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U98	Mr. Don't die, will you speak 'no'? One Member can speak 'for', one for 'no'. Since one Member has already spoken about, will you therefore speak against the handover?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U99	Yes, I will speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U100	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U101	Thank you. Thank you to the group of Members who have tabled this proposal - this draft law. This implies that the Minister of Economics is also going to the Saeima, the Parliament, and presents his annual report. And Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis just mentioned that another minister, namely the Minister of Education and Science, could present such an annual report. But what the most important thing would probably be, what conclusions we could draw. First of all, the work of the Saeima, which has already been mentioned very precisely, is to debate various proposals, especially the budget, which is a very important document that we adopt every year. However, a large part of the speakers today, when speaking about the foreign debate, refer to each other in principle - thank you, thank you to this, let us do it, and let us, the bad neighbours such, the bad neighbours of this institution... That's what we heard -- one said, one said, the other, the third, the fourth... And unfortunately, this has happened for several years in a row. This debate is long, monstrous, uniform, dry... of course, with some exceptions. But why have we given such special exclusivity to the Foreign Minister? I think we have two ways: either we listen to all the ministerial reports in Parliament on what has been done, on what has been done and what the work to be done in the future (and then, of course, the Prime Minister should also be heard), or we do not listen to anyone. And then it would be entirely justified to listen to the Foreign Minister's report and to have a foreign debate in the Foreign Affairs Commission. In the Foreign Affairs Commission, the Minister could account. After reporting to Parliament, the rapporteur would briefly report on this...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U102	Mr Nemir, please excuse me - do you speak against the transfer of the draft law?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U103	Yeah, I...
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U104	"Pret"? So don't give up?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U105	Yes, I am speaking against. And now I will continue the debate. I came to the motivation... I'm stopped. I'll repeat: two ways... The two ways are either to listen to all the ministers and, therefore, to the Prime Minister, or not to listen to anyone. In this case... The proposal, namely the amendment to the parliamentary roll of order on which we are currently discussing, provides for a report by the Minister for Economic Affairs. So with this proposal, we also make an exclusive minister for the economy. But such exceptions are certainly not worth doing! So - either the entire Cabinet comes and reports, either no member of the Cabinet of Ministers comes, and then through the relevant Saeima commissions, with which often ministries are connected... Well, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - with the Commission on Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics - more with the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, the Ministry of Justice - with the Legal Commission... and so on. At this point in time, this draft law does not provide for a report by all ministers and a report by the Prime Minister, so I would call for this draft law not to be passed on to the commission and recast it; it should be improved. In my opinion, the very basis offered by the group of Members is sufficiently promising and, in principle, to be supported, but it should be improved and include absolutely all the ministers so that they come and we, as Parliament, count. Then we would see how detailed the debate would take place, how many of our colleagues would be able to debate not only the essential issues that perhaps someone understands - not too. Then go into true education, economic issues, which are very important, in financial matters and so on. So far, for example, our external debt is growing... so I am calling you not to give it to the commission right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U106	One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law tabled by Members Dombrovskis, Papules, Pucens, Girgens and Petravičs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” presented by the President be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Yes, a vote has been requested. I'm told that Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken wants to talk about the procedure. So first of all, the name to Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U107	Good evening, the honourable chairman of the Saeima sitting and colleagues! Given that this draft law concerns the budget and the issue of financial management, I would have a proposal to hand over it to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, not as proposed, but to the Commission of Budget and Finance (tax). I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U108	Thank you. So let us vote in favour of the proposal of Member Benhen-Beeken - to hand over the draft law tabled by the President to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Mr. Valaiņš, are you going to talk about it or about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U109	Colleagues, I will speak against. I am going to say 'no' to this proposal, which Mrs Benhen-Beeken has just made, that this draft law should be passed on to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U110	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U111	Dear colleagues, This draft law should in no way be passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, because this issue is, however, about the financing of parties, about the issue of the system. And systemic issues are dealt with by the commission responsible, which employs people who are specialised in the issues in question. This draft law, which has been submitted by the President of Latvia, requires an in-depth examination of experts, because what is written here may, in the first place, sound very beautiful, but, by reading alone, many questions arise about individual versions - how this will affect the system of political parties in general. This may affect the breakdown or not of the parliamentary fraction, the existence of a party. And - is it just the Saeima group that needs to be built on? There are many, many questions. For example, does the breakdown of the Riga City Council group affect the receipt of funding to parties elected to the Riga City Council? Now, in the context of such issues, we should look at this draft law. It will not be a matter of rapid action, and, contrary to Mrs Benhen-Beken's opinion, it is not in any way entirely related to funding. It is a matter of the system, and it must not be treated so easily - in the context of one broken party. This must be seen more widely and aligned with the system of financing for all the other parties. I think that, when we are working on this draft law in the next readings, there will be - and we, the Union of Greens/farmers, will have - our vision of what should be improved in this financing law. However, the question here is not as much about money as it is about the basic principles. And this is already a fundamental issue of public administration, which should be dealt with, in my opinion, by experts, Members who are more specialised in these matters. And in this case... In the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, I think there are enough of our colleagues who are working on these issues for a number of terms. We need to find a solution that will really work longer than this one, which has already been developed by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Just as we can see, there is little success, because the first serious corrections are already needed. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, not to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, which, let us now speak openly, I think at the burden that exists in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, this draft law will not, by its very nature, be worth noting, of course, that it could be driven through. But is that what we expect from this draft law? And is that what will really give the public something... are you completing high added value? I invite you to refer the matter to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U112	Thank you. Mr Dombrovskis, will you talk about a transfer to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U113	I will, of course, be speaking about.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U114	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U115	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear colleagues, I think there is no reason to say that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission cannot work on this draft law. During this parliamentary term, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission has worked on various draft laws. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has even worked with the Riga City Council's draft law on dismissal, and I can mention several other examples. Consequently, I think there is no reason to say that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission cannot work on this. I think it can, in principle, work with this, as with any other draft law. I also call very much for this draft law to be passed on to commissions, particularly the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Colleagues, I think this is a very good time to see this wonderful initiative, because the electoral time of the Saeima is approaching. I think this is a very good topic, I would even say, an excellent theme to look at during the pre-election period. And I am sure that we, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, will do our utmost to look at this issue... both the deadlines for submitting proposals... and so on... if its debate is to take place as close as possible to the parliamentary elections. And I am sure that we will achieve very interesting, perhaps not all predictable results with this particular initiative. I therefore call, colleagues, on us to support the transfer of this draft law to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, because we can better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2022-01-27-PT13-2352-U116	Thank you. So we will first vote in favour of handing over the draft law tabled by the President of Latvia on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties) to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For - 67, for - 5, for - 1. The draft law was passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Armanda Krauze, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis and Gundars Many's draft law "Amendment to Covid-19's law on the management of the spread of infection" (No. 1303/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? Members have not applied for a vote but have requested a vote. Please call me! Vote for Member Valaiņa, Krauze, Tatars, Plant and Many’s draft law “Amendment to Covid-19’s Law on the Management of Infectious Effects” (No. 1303/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Armanda Krauze, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis and Gundars Many's draft law "Amendment to Covid-19's law on the management of the spread of infection" (No. 1304/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Members have not applied for a vote but have requested a vote. Please call me! Vote for Member Valaiņa, Krauze, Tatars, Plant and Many’s draft law “Amendment to Covid-19’s Law on the Management of Infectious Effects” (No. 1304/Lp13) transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 32, it's against - 49, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Armanda Krauze, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis and Gundars Many's draft law "Amendment to Covid-19's law on the management of the spread of infection" (No. 1305/Lp13) to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Members have not applied for a debate, but they have been asked to vote. Please call me! Vote for Member Valaiņa, Krauze, Tatars, Plant and Many’s draft law “Amendment to Covid-19’s Law on the Management of Infectious Effects” (No. 1305/Lp13) transfer of the budget and financial (tax) commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 33, it's against - 50, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the Member Armanda Krauze, Viktora Valaiņa, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis and Gundars Many's draft law "Amendment to Covid-19's law on the management of the spread of infection" (No. 1306/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with responsibility for the Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” tabled by the Member, Krauze, Valaiņa, Tadars, Plantis and Many (No. 1306/Lp13) transfer of the budget and financial (tax) commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 32, it's against - 50, it's not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis and Gundars Many (No. 1307/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” tabled by Mr Valaiņa, Mr Krauze, Mr Tatars, Mr Augulis and Ms Dauges (No. 1307/Lp13) transfer of the budget and financial (tax) commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 33, against - 49, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis and Gundars Many (No. 1308/Lp13) to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is a responsible commission! Members have not applied for a 'yes' or 'no' but have requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” tabled by Mr Valaiņa, Mr Krauze, Mr Tatars, Mr Augulis and Ms Dauges (No. 1308/Lp13) transfer of the budget and financial (tax) commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by Member Edgars Tatars, Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis and Gundars Many (No. 1309/Lp13) transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Members have not applied for a 'yes' or 'no' vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” submitted by Tatar, Valaiņa, Krauze, Plant and many (No. 1309/Lp13) transfer of the budget and financial (tax) commission, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Juris Pūce, Mārtiņš Šteina, Aigars Bikše, Gata Zamura and Viesturs Liepkalna to declare a break from question 14 of the Parliament's first remote emergency session of 27 January 2022 until 9 a.m. on 3 February. We must vote on this application. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion put to the vote by Mr Pouce, Ms Stein, Ms Bikše, Mr Zamara and Mr Liepkalns to declare the session of the Saeima adjourned until 9 a.m. on 3 February! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We therefore decided to declare the sitting adjourned by 9 a.m. on 3 February this year. The registration of Members' presence is over. So the sitting was suspended until 9 a.m. on 3 February. Good evening! ( Interruption)
